ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Cink, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, Mr Ivan Škodnik, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Jernej Vrtovec by 11 a.m., Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik by 13.30 a.m., Mr Janez Janša, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mrs Janja Sluga. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Government and the candidate Minister of Education, Science and Sport mags. Mr Brout Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Markež, on agenda item 15, representative of the Council of the Court of Justice on agenda item 15 and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda for the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 18 March 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda for the 6th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 3. On a daily basis, this is a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on income by emergency procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! You have before you a proposal to amend the Income Act, which proposes extending the possibility of applying a tax relief for investing in equipment, namely for buses with an engine that meets at least the emission requirements of Euro VI. Following the current arrangements, these allowances of 40 % of the eligible costs may also apply to motor vehicles, but only to motorized cargo vehicles meeting such emission requirements. The purpose and purpose of the general tax relief is to promote investments in motor vehicles, which are environmentally friendly and reduce emissions emissions and consequently reduce environmental impacts. The minimum standard for buses and lorries is laid down as from 1 January 2014 by European Regulation 595/2009 regulating the type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with regard to emissions from heavy-duty vehicles and this standard is an engine which meets at least the emission requirements of Euro VI. The proposal therefore means that the debtors will have the possibility of applying a tax exemption for investments in buses with an engine that meets these emission standards. The proposal also puts the debtors carrying out the transport of passengers and the debtors carrying out the transport of cargo in the same position. In accordance with the proposal of the law, the debtors will also be able to apply for the year 2014, and they will be able to submit a correction of the invoice within 30 days of the application of the amended legislation in question. According to the Ministry of Infrastructure, it was 31. 12. 2014 in Slovenia registered 2 000 576 buses, of which 133 are newly registered with an engine that meets at least the emission requirements of Euro VI. Natural persons owned 137 buses, on this basis we estimate that the financial implications of the reduction in income from the activity tax will be lower than EUR 40,000 per year. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported in the text tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u4	Your Honor! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 23rd urgent session, on 13. 3. 2015 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. The proposal was submitted by the Government following an urgent procedure for consideration and adoption. The Committee took note of the drafter's material and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly also attended. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained in the introduction that the investment facility is applied to buses with an engine which meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI, which has so far been in force only for freight vehicles. This solution represents a system-wide measure of permanent tax relief of 40 % of the amount of investment in equipment and intangible long-term assets in the tax year of investment up to the amount of the tax base. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service raised open questions concerning the retroactive application of the relief since none of the natural persons on Day 31. 12. 2014 has not yet been owned by the bus with the envisaged version of the engine and the necessary change of address, since this does not reflect that it is merely a complement. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that if they had not proposed retroactive application, there is a risk of unequal treatment of the debtors, since the available records only provide data on registered vehicles and not on purchases in 2014, which could have been registered later. Furthermore, the technical solution for the introduction of a relief for those who have already paid the tax invoice for the period in question was explained. It was also explained that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on the change of the title in the spelling of the texts would be taken into account. In the view of the Government, the proposal pursues the objective of following public benefit by promoting the purchase of new buses and modernising the passenger transport fleet, which should also have a favourable impact on the environment. In the debate, the impact of the tax revenue shortfall on the budget amounting to EUR 1.3 million was highlighted. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them by 17 votes to none. Given that the amendments have not been tabled, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! At this point, I will give a common position by the SDS Group on the amendment of the Income Act and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always advocated measures aimed at decommissioning and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. This objective was also followed by the tax reform adopted in 2006, which also adopted the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax. At that time, investment incentives were abolished, with greater emphasis on investment in research and development, and they were reintroduced at the initiative of the economy in July 2008 in the form of tax incentives for certain investments. The current provision of the law provides that hybrid and electric-powered buses and motor vehicles with an engine which meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI may be qualified for facilitation. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has rightly pointed out that there is an inadequate distinction between taxpayers for investment in buses and investment in trucks. The proposed amendments to the laws thus extend the possibility of applying a tax relief to invest in equipment on buses with an engine that meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI for investments, as already stated here today, from 1 January 2014. The same position shall be placed in the same position between the debtors carrying out the transport of passengers and the debtors carrying out the transport of the cargo. The aim of the proposed change is to promote the purchase of new buses, which is quite reasonable given the average age of all buses in Slovenia, which is 8.8 years. As a result, of course, it also means promoting a positive impact on the modernisation of the passenger rolling stock and, in particular, reducing the negative impacts on the environment. As we have already heard, at the end of 2014, we had 2 000 576 buses registered and only 133 of them have an engine that meets the emission requirements of Euro VI, which is also a minimum standard for buses and trucks under the European Regulation as of 1 January 2014. In view of these positive characteristics and at least a small burden on the smaller part of the economy, the proposed amendment of the Income Act and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons will be confirmed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. The new law has positive effects, but it is not only about promoting a favourable tax environment, but also about strengthening environmental awareness by promoting the purchase of environmentally advanced technologies. The introduction of tax exemptions for buses with the Euro VI standard engine is equivalent to the conditions for the enforcement of tax reliefs for the purchase of trucks and buses. Equal treatment of the debtors as a second constitutional principle also allows for retroactive intervention in the application of this law. The amendment of these Articles will extend the possibility of applying a tax relief for investment and solve the problem of bus operators. In our Group of Members, we have always supported tax reforms that have provided benefits and for faster and more competitive development of the economy. Today, too, we welcome the amendments to the proposed amendment to the law, which the government has prepared together with a novel that will be discussed in the next item. Regardless of the legal provisions in most cases, the practice of the one which dictates changes is the case, so in the DeSUS Group we have assessed that it would make sense to listen to the professional public and to take into account the initiative proposed both at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Of course, the standards in force for motor vehicles have not just been invented, this is dictated by the 2009 European Regulation, which must be respected. The objectives of the European Union are constantly focused on environmental protection or on reducing negative impacts on the environment. In the DeSUS Group, we are not surprised by the new standards that favour the promotion of the purchase of more environmentally advanced vehicle models. It is also not surprising that the price of such vehicles is higher than that of their predecessors, which is perfectly logical. Environmental impacts are more important, although the public considers the difference to be minimal. Currently, we have more than 130 registered buses in Slovenia with engines that meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI. For example, hybrid buses are even more expensive and electric buses are not yet on the market. The price also dictates demand, so we will release this part of the market with tax reliefs. The latter, as a result, also means lower revenues from the state budget in the coming years, which is not necessarily a negative experience for the country, since it is necessary to be aware of what this means for the economy itself. According to some estimates, Slovenian carriers contribute more to the state budget than the country costs subsidies. It is important to maintain the competitiveness of Slovenian bus carriers both on the domestic market and abroad. The aim of the country is also to increase the number of passengers in public passenger transport. Resuming and slowly closing. Since this is an indisputable environmental issue, because it is a tax incentive for healthy entrepreneurial ideas or projects and because it is a positive net effect for public finances, i.e. the contribution of entrepreneurs will be greater than the cost of the subsidy state, we will gladly support the proposal of the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished secretary, colleague and colleague! Today's proposals for amendments to the laws on income and corporate income tax were based on the initiative of the Social Democrats when we responded to increasing warnings from the economy, especially bus operators, about the unequal position of part of the economy in facilitating investment in bus purchases. We have listened to these warnings in order to remove this situation, to the coalition, to take the initiative to amend these two laws, which will enable investors to buy buses reasonably and, above all, an equivalent starting point for the enforcement of investment incentives. These should follow the actual role they play, promoting investment while at the same time following the real situation. Indeed, an ambitious action plan will not help and encourage economies if it is not feasible for a short period of time. When the Law on corporate income tax was adopted in our legal order in the context of the so-called tax reform, it abolished facilities for investments in equipment and intangible long-term assets. The economy is aware of this, as the consequences of the uneven tax burden on the abolition of tax incentives to invest in fixed assets would be borne mainly by micro and small enterprises. As the latter were not able to invest directly in research and development, for which certain investment incentives were initially established, the need to reintroduce tax incentives for certain investments was expressed. The tight economic and financial circumstances also required measures to enable firms, through investment facilities, to cope more easily with the market situation while encouraging them to invest. Since 2008, we have seen many changes that have provided for tax relief for investments in equipment and investment in intangible long-term assets. Among these were hybrid buses or electric motor vehicles and motorized trucks which meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI. However, transitional periods have been extended since 2008 for vehicles with an engine which meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro V and for buses which meet at least the emission requirements of Euro VI. It also changed the rate of investment relief, which is now set at 40% of the amount invested. However, following the expiry of the transitional period 2013, an investment gap was created which was evident precisely for the purchase of buses, as the system solution established after the transition period a relief for investment in hybrid or electric buses and motor vehicles with engines which meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI. This provision has placed taxpayers wishing to invest in bus-related investments in an unequal position compared to other undertakings and, on the other hand, has made it possible to invest in motor vehicles which meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI and provided for buses only for electric and hybrid vehicles. It should be noted, however, that the use of hybrid electric motor buses is only appropriate in a narrow transport zone or that such vehicles are mainly used in urban passenger transport. Nor is it possible to ignore the data of the state agency in the Republic of Slovenia, which warns that the ownership of passenger cars in Slovenia has almost doubled in the last 20 years and that the degree of motorisation exceeds the situation in many of the most economically developed countries of the European Union, and we are facing an outdated bus fleet in Slovenia, as data show that the average age of buses is still over 10 years. This, however, calls on the legislator to make the provisions of these two laws in the work of the investment incentives in a way that actually serves their purpose. Investors should be allowed a solution that is realistic and compatible with both environmental requirements and otherwise. The positive changes we have seen in the bus market in recent years have also been largely due to the transitional provisions of the Income and Income Tax Act, as well as the exemptions for the purchase of buses with engines that meet the minor emission requirements and follow the real state and market of buses. We will, of course, support this and, with our support from the law, the Social Democrats to the Government and the Ministry of Finance are referring to further procedures to determine the conditions for relief. In fact, on the basis of strong arguments by the economy, we have proposed that the transition from the requirements for facilitating the purchase of a bus with Euro V and Euro VI requirements be addressed at least through the transitional provision for the purchase of the Euro V bus for 2014. Nevertheless, we believe that the proposals have taken an important step forward, while we believe that, in the event of the need for this smoother transition, the Government will listen and find a suitable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the United Left, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Income Act and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. In our view, investment in environmentally friendly public transport outweighs the loss of tax revenue, but on this occasion we need to draw attention to some systemic shortcomings. First time. It is eloquent that the Chamber of Commerce gave the initiative for this relief. Of course, there is nothing wrong with this, but it is wrong that the need has not been noted by the Ministry. Although this is a minor error, it indicates a systemic phenomenon. One of the rare findings in the proposal for a strategy for managing the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, which we agree with even in the United Left, is that this strategy does not replace the strategic development documents of individual sectors of the economy and industrial policy. But unfortunately, these sectoral strategies are neither the spirit nor the hearing or the dead letter on paper. For example, TES 6 has been built through development documents, the energy concept of Slovenia will only be seen in about three years and there are no or no coherent strategic development documents in the sectors. Even the biggest projects are being implemented without strategic consideration, in the same way. Secondly, this also applies to transport policy. The country's planning documents are also here a dead letter on paper. We have, for example, the Resolution on Transport Policy of Slovenia and the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure for 2007-2013 and even the White Paper. One of the objectives, from 2007 onwards, was to tackle the volume of road freight, in particular transit and international transport, is to shift to rail or combined road and rail solutions. In practice, however, it is quite the opposite: the growth of road freight significantly exceeds the growth of rail transport. Slovenia has a share of road transport at the European Summit, and this is also appropriate for the state of roads and the emissions of dust particles. We are aware that carriers generate large exports of services, but the consequences of road freight on human health and on the budget are enormous, and drivers are one of the most exploited groups of workers. Therefore, in Slovenia, even in international transport, we must encourage the transition to rail transport and, of course, not only in white books, but in concrete actions, for example, by not privatising roads and railways, but by modernising the railway network. It's over. At a purely practical level, consideration should be given to a system that would facilitate additional conditions. For example, the carrier would only be able to exercise relief if, at the same time as the purchase of an organic vehicle, one environmentally harmful vehicle was written off. This would be particularly appropriate for freight vehicles. As it is said, I do not know if as a company we can afford high environmental, maintenance and health costs of excessive road freight. In addition, I would like to point out that in the debate it has been repeatedly heard that we accept this so that our carriers can compete with European competitors. This is already the case, but our common goal should be here primarily that the people of Slovenia deserve to transport as many organic and healthy vehicles as possible in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u13	Mr Jože Horvat, the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! To begin with, I will present the position of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats Group on the proposal of both laws, the new Income Law and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, as they both regulate practically identical content. It's some kind of legislative tax twin who's logically connected. The draft amendments to both laws will, of course, be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group. Why? Because, in fact, this is the first and unfortunately the only measure taken so far by the current government to relieve the economy. It refers to a relatively narrow circle of taxpayers, namely business entities engaged in the transport of passengers and investing in the purchase of new, environmentally friendly buses and other passenger transport vehicles. In tax terms, we are now comparing them with the undertakings for the transport of goods which have already been recognised under the current rules as a tax relief for investing in the acquisition of basic assets, i.e. vehicles which comply with the Euro VI standard. The new Slovenia-Christian Democrats, however, note that the current government has done little or no good in creating a favourable tax and business environment, and it has been more than half a year since the appointment of the government. In fact, the legislative twin we are dealing with today is just a trifle. I must say that we are also satisfied with this little thing, and we want it to be as soon as possible or as soon as possible. Slovenia falls on the competitiveness scale. In just one year we fell by 8 cities, in September 2014 we were in 70th place from 144 countries, and two years ago we fell by 6 more cities. In two years, the fall was for 14 cities. We are ahead of countries that have emerged in the territory of the former SFRY, specifically Montenegro and Macedonia. For the government, this information should be an emergency and immediate action in this area. Slovenia is still in a job crisis. As we saw last week, we've been in debt over and over again, but it's just for current consumption. Despite the extensive rehabilitation of banks, companies do not have access to credit, the reason is the overindebtedness of businesses. Measures must be taken urgently to ensure a comprehensive or systemic extension of enterprises. As we know, at the end of 2013, a new law on insolvency law was adopted, which is the basis for the deleveraging of large and medium-sized enterprises through preventive restructuring. What effects this law has after one year of validity, we do not know. We hope of course, at least some minimal effects are. However, we do not have a valid legal basis for the systemic deleveraging of micro and small enterprises, i.e. those up to 50 employees who represent over 90% of all companies in our economy structure. We also need measures for the administrative unloading of businesses. In New Slovenia, we have repeatedly proposed to the government to raise the thresholds for entry into the mandatory system of value added tax from the current 50,000 to 100,000 euros. Such a measure would actually put an administrative burden on taxpayers who have opted for flat-rate taxation and have up to 100,000 euros in annual tax turnover. We need a tax burden on the economy, among which we point out an urgent reduction in wage burden. These burdens are among the highest in the Member States of the European Union. And of course, a stable business environment needs to be established. The constant change in legislation that we have witnessed in our country for many years is also a negative signal for potential investors. If I may express myself figuratively, capital is a shy bird and to attract it and thus retain it, we must ensure a secure and predictable business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u16	Your Honor! The incentives for investing in buses have been adjusted several times in recent years, but only with temporary effect. Given that we are aware of the importance of the further development of bus passenger transport in the SMC, it is also estimated that the promotion of the renovation of bus fleets through tax reliefs is one of the right routes to more technologically completed and environmentally advanced buses, thus also to more competitive bus services. In the SMC we are of the opinion that despite retroactive application, the solution is already being introduced for the tax period from January 2014 onwards, for a reasonable solution and to ensure the continuity of the relief which was in force until the end of 2013. We also believe that raising the emission requirements from Euro IV to Euro VI in relation to transitional periods is justified, as these are significantly more advanced engines, based in a more modern way, in a way that allows the achievement of a significantly higher ecological standard. The harmonisation of the requirements for both buses and trucks is also helpful, since the sale of new vehicles is from 1. 1. 2014 predicted a uniform level of emission requirements, the Euro VI, which has remained somewhat behind in previous years in the area of buses. We also believe that the solution for the taxpayers who have already paid their tax returns is that they can, within 30 days, correct their accounts and benefit from tax relief. Let us point out that this is now a permanent solution under the Income Act, as the supplement is written directly in Article 66 of the Income Act. For this reason, the regulation will have to be consistently adapted in the future to raising emissions requirements, thus following technological and ecologically more complete generations of engines, which will inherit the current state of the art version. This will preserve the pursuit of the basic objectives of this legal solution. Complementing the Income Act, which extends the investment incentives also to the area of buses with engines which meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI in the SMC Group, we therefore support. We also support the same supplements in the case of the Law on corporate income tax to be dealt with under the next item of the agenda of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT OF THE LEGAL LEGISLATION Tax, BY RELEVANT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! This is a substantive solution, as discussed in the previous law, only that it refers to legal persons and allows tax relief to be imposed on legal persons' income tax. Given that the content is identical to that discussed in the previous law, I will not repeat it in the introduction. To conclude, it is only up to the owners or to the fact that buses with an engine that meets the emission requirements of Euro VI owned by legal persons are more than those owned by natural persons, which is why we expect financial effects on corporate income tax revenues to be higher than in income, but in this case, however, the effects are manageable or can also be said to be negligible. The maximum estimated value of the reduction in revenue under this heading is approximately EUR 1.3 million per year if all taxpayers had a positive tax base and could enforce tax relief. In accordance with the above and in accordance with the substantive explanations for the previous proposal of the Law, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that this proposal also be supported by the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u20	Hello again! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 23rd emergency meeting on Friday, 13. 3. 2015, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on corporate income tax, novel ZDDPO-2L. The proposal was submitted by the Government following an urgent procedure for consideration and adoption. In its opening remarks, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented a proposal which foresees an expansion of the investment facility in Article 55 of the Law also for investments in buses with engines which meet the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI. Complementation of the law is already in force with 1. 1. In 2014, the financial impact of the tax revenue drop due to the expansion of the pool of investment incentives was estimated at EUR 1.3 million. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to two shortcomings: an explanation of the application of a readjustment and the necessary change of title, since this does not reflect the need to supplement the law. Further discussion raised questions on the applicable back-up solution or for 2014 as regards the public interest and also the financial implications with regard to the adopted rebalancing for 2015. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance provided responses regarding the retroactive effect and assessed the envisaged technical solutions for the debtors and the budgetary implications as low. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them by 17 votes to none. Given that the amendments have not been tabled, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the draft Law amending the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u21	Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u22	Nicely greeted! Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill before us has already been reprinted several times. The reasons for amending and supplementing this original 2007 law are always the same: finding positive solutions for the tax environment. In the DeSUS Group, we have always supported tax reforms that promote and do not impede the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We have particularly advocated those changes that lead to the fair distribution of the tax burden, the creation of a favourable tax environment and, consequently, the sustainable development of the economy as a whole. We remain in line with the same principles today when we reach out to amend the key Article 55 of the current law and allow the extension of the application of the tax exemption for investing in equipment to buses with an engine that meets the minimum emission requirements of Euro VI. We are aware of the necessity of adopting the bill precisely because of the pursuit of the primary objective, and this is an equalisation of the conditions for tax incentives for investments both in trucks and in buses. In this position, I will not go further into the content of the law itself, nor for the reasons why this amendment makes sense in the DeSUS Group. My fellow Member made it very clear that we support the bill. I would add that in the DeSUS Group, we believe that promoting a green tax reform should be a long-term priority for all, not just those who have committed themselves to it in the coalition treaty. Environmentally friendly behavior should be self - conscious by now. The fact is, unfortunately, profit still outweighs the possible positive effects on the environment. No tax, however high, unfortunately, can change such thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u23	We have completed the presentation of the position by the Group of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Motor Vehicles after the end of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act gives rise to the following substantial changes and additions in relation to the existing situation. Firstly, the draft law appoints the Ministry of Transport as the national contact point in the Republic of Slovenia for the cross-border exchange of data from the register of registered vehicles of the Member States of the European Union for the purpose of cross-border exchange of data on vehicle owners or persons to whom those vehicles are registered. These data shall be exchanged for traffic offences related to road safety provided for in Directive 2015/413/EU and are consequently laid down in this Act. Another time. Through national contact points in the Member States of the European Union, the competent criminal authorities will obtain data for each individual case of traffic offences contained in the bill automatically via online access. Third time. The proposal also provides for a detailed report to the European Commission on the number of automated searches carried out by the Member State of the European Union for which Directive 2015/413/EU is binding. Fourth time. In view of the cross-border exchange of data on vehicle owners or persons to whom they are registered, the date of birth shall be added to the register of registered vehicles. Fifth. This proposal also provides for a more detailed indication of the conditions for the participation of road transport vehicles in order to provide specific information on the infringements of transport operators and operators in the national electronic register of road hauliers, in accordance with point 5 of Annex 4 of Regulation 1071/2009/EC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u25	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at the 8th meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. 3. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The proposal for a law is the implementation of Directive 2011/82/EU, which, in contrast with the judgment of the EU Court of Justice of 6. 5. 2014 repealed and its effects retained by the Court until the entry into force of the new Directive on a new legal basis, which had to be adopted no later than 12 months after the judgment was delivered. In spite of the repeal, it shall be held at 27. 1. 2014 The Republic of Slovenia still received an official reminder, 26. 11. In 2014, following the judgment, a reasoned opinion on non-notification of this Directive into the national legal order, which means that the transposition of this Directive into the national legal order was still necessary. However, Directive 2015/413 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 September 2015 adopted and published at the time following the submission of the proposal for a law that we are considering today. 3. 2015 on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety, replacing the repealed directive I mentioned earlier, and introducing some minor amendments necessary to comply with the judgment of the Court. The provisions of this Directive have been introduced by amendments in the draft law under consideration. The draft law provides for national contact points for cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, arrangements for the operation of a national contact point for the purpose of cross-border exchange of information between national contact points in the Member States and the way and content of reporting to the European Commission. The proposal for a law also regulates the separation of infringements in order to provide specific information on infringements by carriers and transport operators in the national electronic register of road hauliers, in accordance with point 5 of Annex 4 of the Regulation. Access to vehicle data for all national contact points in the EU is also being regulated. The Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development supports the proposal of the law and has no comments on its content. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were taken into account by the amendments adopted. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3, 6 and 7 of the Parliamentary Coalition Groups and to the title of the Chapter. The Transitional and Final Provisions have become an immaterial amendment of the coalition groups to Article 5. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, the Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u27	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you, President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act, which we are considering today, aligns the provisions of the law with the legal order of the European Union, in particular with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which was published on 11 March this year and regulates the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety. The key solutions presented by the bill are as follows. A legal basis shall be laid down for the designation of a national contact point through which cross-border exchanges of information on traffic offences will take place, through which such databases will be accessed and information exchanged between national contact points of EU Member States. The method and content of mandatory reporting to the European Commission on the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety shall be determined. The provision shall be made for the separation of infringements in such a way as to provide particular information on infringements by carriers and transport operators in the national electronic register of road hauliers, where the infringements relating to the non-proper evidence of the technical integrity of the vehicle in the case of the carriage of goods and passengers will also be recorded, and the access to data on vehicles to all national contact points in the European Union shall be regulated. The main purpose of the Act is to achieve the fundamental objective of the European Union's transport policy, namely to increase road safety and to reduce the number of victims, injuries and damage caused by traffic accidents. The important element of the common European policy is also the consistent enforcement of sanctions against infringements of road traffic rules, irrespective of the national identity of the offender, which will be enabled by the appropriate exchange of information between national contact points. It should also be said that the Directive, published on 11 March this year, replaced the October 2011 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which was repealed by the Court of Justice of the European Union in May 2014, but stated in its explanation of the judgment that the repealed Directive was applicable until a new directive was adopted. This is also important because Slovenia received an official reminder from the European Commission on the late implementation of the repealed Directive last January. In November last year, the Republic of Slovenia received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission due to the non-notification of that directive, where we were once again warned as a country that the content of this Directive must be transposed into our legal order. On the basis of this, we will support the draft amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u29	The New Slovenia-Christian Democrats' Group has the floor for it, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you again, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another proposal for a new law to be passed if we are to prevent the payment of fines due to the delay in implementing European legislation. This time, too, the fact that the deadline for the transposition of the directive on the facilitation of cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences into the national legal order has already been 7 November 2013 cannot justify our slowness in this domestic task. Given that the Directive was repealed in the meantime on 6 May 2014, its effects were maintained and Slovenia was duly duly given an official reminder. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced, however, that the search for excuses and the reference of the Government to reorganisation, interdepartmental coordination and early change of government in this case is completely irrelevant. The proposed amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act therefore constitutes only a partial transposition of the European Directive and nothing else. No other substantive amendments or additions, despite the fact that it was already in the process of adopting the amendment last year, which, in addition to the implementation of the said Directive, contained a number of important substantive changes and additions. Since there have been very large changes, more than one third of the provisions have changed, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has proposed the drafting of a new law. And what do we have today? Only transposition of the directive, while other substantive changes, which were already prepared last year, are not spirit and not hearing. Undoubtedly, the transfer is also important, as we allow sanctions or fines to be imposed on certain road traffic offences committed in one Member State with a vehicle registered in another Member State to be actually enforced. For this purpose, the Ministry of Infrastructure will appoint a national contact point for the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, allowing them to be exchanged between national contact points in the Member States. Since such an exchange on the other hand also constitutes an intervention in the field of sensitive personal data, it is necessary to define more clearly who is responsible for the provision of such data and for what purpose it can or should provide them. Members of the New Slovenia-Christian Democrats for the above-mentioned reasons of the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act will not be supported. Nor will we oppose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u31	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u32	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act complements the provisions of the two Directives of the European Union. The Directive on the facilitation of cross-border exchange of information on road safety related offences is partially transposed into Slovenian legislation. The reasons for adopting Directives at European level and implementing them into Slovenian legislation are: non-implementation of penalties in the form of fines for road traffic offences in one European Union country with a vehicle registered in another European Union country; access to national data from the vehicle register of the Member State in which the vehicle is registered; provision of a high level of road safety; equal treatment of all drivers, both resident and non-resident, and influence on the behaviour of road users. Amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act affect the area of registration of vehicles or the conditions for participation in road transport. An obligation has been added to provide evidence of the technical integrity of the vehicle in the case of a truck or a trailer or a bus carrying out transport in accordance with road transport rules. This infringement must be specifically recorded in the national electronic register of road hauliers and may lead to the loss of the good reputation of a particular transport undertaking. This information may be relevant, for example, for schools which choose carriers through public tendering. Further changes affect the technical integrity of vehicles and their equipment. However, key changes affect the scope of records and access to databases where a new Article 64 is added, specifying the designation and operation of the national contact point and indicating new entities entitled to access the data from records. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the proposed changes to the records affect the sensitive area of personal data and that the text of the articles should be specifically defined, which has also been taken into account by the amendments adopted by the coalition groups on the home working body. Therefore, in the SMC Group we support amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u33	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u34	The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act itself comes into consideration and adoption very late, as the European Commission, in connection with this delay, has already issued a reminder to Slovenia. The proposal, however, is now in the process of dealing with and adopting, but not opening up all the shortcomings that this law is calling for, of course, but we only accept the transposition of the European Directive. Despite the fact that it is a short and fairly simple addition, the law is quite superficial, as there are many comments by the Law-Legal Service. These comments and shortcomings shall be addressed by amendments. However, the addition of the law itself requires the Ministry of Transport to establish and manage national contact points as the competent authority designated for the exchange of data from registered vehicles of the Member States of the European Union for the purpose of cross-border exchange of information on vehicle owners or persons to whom those vehicles are registered. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose or support the proposed law, because we believe that the law or supplement should contain more than just transposition of the directive itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u35	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act. The proposal complements the provisions of the current Motor Vehicle Act because of the two rules of the European Union. The essential changes and additions to the law relate to the designation of the Ministry of Infrastructure as the competent authority for the performance of the tasks of the national contact point for the purpose of cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, to the provision of access to vehicle data to all national contact points in the European Union and to the separation of infringements, so that data on infringements by carriers and transport operators in the national electronic register of road hauliers can be reported in particular. The Republic of Slovenia has already exceeded the deadline for the partial transposition of the Directive on the facilitation of cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety. Therefore, in January 2014, we received a reminder and in November of the same year, we received a reasoned opinion from the European Commission. With this explanation, the proposed law, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure, has in some way re-pressed the National Assembly to deal with the law following a reduced procedure. Again, because there is no way that we can get rid of the practice of some ministries that the deadlines for implementing European directives are going to be very late, and immediately so extorted by members of the National Assembly that the laws that could otherwise be dealt with under the ordinary procedure are being dealt with in short and urgent procedures, which does not give us enough time to thoroughly review the proposed amendments. This, of course, can result in mistakes or ill - thoughtful solutions. In 2012, I repeat that the amendment of the law, which included the transposition of that directive, had already been tabled in the National Assembly, but was not adopted as a result of the proposed abolition of the Public Transport Safety Agency. In July 2013, a second amendment to the law was drawn up, which, in addition to major substantive changes in this area, reintroduced the transposition of that directive, but, due to the inter-departmental coordination with the Ministry of the Environment, the process stood still for several months, so that the bill was submitted for consideration to the National Assembly only in April 2014, which it did not consider at all for its dissolution. This amendment regulates only the transposition of Directive 2011/82/EU, while other amendments to the law will be prepared with the following amendment of the law. As we are aware, the European Commission envisages the publication of information on traffic rules relating to offences in force in individual EU Member States and on which Member States will exchange information, with access to this information also being made available through the Ministry of Infrastructure's website. As I have already said, the DeSUS Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a travel law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Road and tolling are currently regulated by the Public Roads Act and the Toll Law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms. The proposal for a law repeals those legal acts, which means that the proposed law regulates both the tolling of passenger and freight vehicles in one place, which is important both in terms of clarity of the sectoral legislation and the understanding of users and supervisory authorities. While passenger tolls remain as regulated as they are now, the tolling of cargo vehicles is in line with EU legislation, the so-called Eurovignette Directive and the EU Toll System Interoperability Directive. With regard to tolling in relation to the distance transported applicable to freight vehicles, it should be pointed out that the proposal for a law governs three types of tolling, namely tolling at toll stations, free electronic tolling and European electronic tolling. The bill still retains the possibility of tolling freight vehicles by stopping at the toll station, as this method of tolling is important in particular during the transitional period until the introduction of an electronic toll system which can be based on one of the three technologies provided by EU legislation. These are microwaves, satellites or GMS/GPRS technologies. This means that the law is technologically neutral and that is why providers will be able to offer any of those technologies with regard to the establishment of an electronic toll system and will have to comply with the requirements on the interoperability of the toll system of the Republic of Slovenia with the toll systems of other EU Member States set out in Decision 2009/759/EC. Compliance with the requirements for interoperability of the toll system is important, as it only makes it possible to provide European electronic tolling which is intended to enable the toll network user to use the toll network in different EU Member States using the same on-board unit. An important novelty is the introduction of the possibility of charging an external cost charge arising from transport pollution or noise loads due to the decommissioning of freight vehicles. In doing so, the toll and the external costs charge in the account must be shown separately. The external cost charge is the revenue of the State budget allocated to measures to improve and operate the transport system. This means that these revenues can thus be allocated to the implementation of measures that directly eliminate the reasons for charging the external cost charge, such as the setting up of counter-group fences, the removal of bottlenecks with a view to eliminating congestion resulting in excessive pollution of the environment, as well as measures to promote sustainable transport, such as the promotion of cleaner modes of public passenger transport and so on. Infringements relating to to the tolling of passenger vehicles will be monitored as now by toll inspectors, police and officials of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. As a supervisory authority, road traffic inspectors who are primarily competent for the control of the carriage of commercial vehicles in road transport are excluded, so the scope of the control exercised over the correct use of vignettes has been extremely small so far and is negligible among all the infringement proceedings carried out by all supervisory authorities. As so far as to control the tolling of cargo vehicles, only toll controllers will be responsible. On the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly, at the same meeting, to carry out a third examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u39	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at the 7th meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. 3. In 2015, the Government submitted a proposal for a tolling law to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In a supplementary explanation, Mr Klemen Grebenšek, the Secretary of State, on behalf of the proposal, completed the proposal and, in fact, today, as my predecessor, reiterated the Government's complementary position on the proposal for a law, so I will not repeat it. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. also took part in the meeting of the Committee. Saša Bricelj Podgornik, which pointed out that comments were made to each article by the Legal and Legislative Service, which are mostly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the SMC Group. Mr Jernej Verbič, President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, also took part in the Committee's meeting, which pointed out that the Commission did not support the proposal, but at the same time considers that the law should be adopted as soon as possible, as the Republic of Slovenia is delaying a recent amendment to the so-called Eurovignette Directive from 2011 to the Slovenian legal order, which is why the European Commission has already introduced a preliminary procedure against the Republic of Slovenia. The meeting was also attended by Mr Matjaž Knez, President of the Dars administration, who stressed that the proposal for a law lays down the way in which to create and collect tolls, which represents for their operation one of the key laws which gives them the legal basis for earning incomes that they will be able to settle long-term obligations under the guarantee law. Mr Prince also pointed out that, in the framework of his business and toll control, Dars wants to return to society part of the costs he has with the management of toll control. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr Bojan Pečnik, also attended the meeting, who highlighted the provisions of the bill governing the collection of tolls and the amount of fines for offences. He warned that Slovenian motorists object to the anticipated toll collection on roads that are not motorways or fast roads. In the debate, a number of opinions were expressed regarding Article 13 concerning Article 18 concerning Articles 41 and 49 and 50. With regard to Article 13, concerns were expressed regarding the harmonisation of the toll once a year with the consumer price index. Concern was expressed in the event of deflation and the consequences for Dars, which is burdened by the liabilities of credits for the construction of motorways. With regard to Article 41, concerns were expressed as to the cases where infringements are subject to an infringement of the toll or a procedure involving the enforcement of a request or a proposal for the lawful transmission of images, and the bill provides that the operator of customs roads may keep the tapes but is not obliged to keep the proceedings pending the conclusion, for example, of the proceedings. With regard to Articles 49 and 50, concerns were expressed regarding the prescribed fines for offences. The view was expressed that the envisaged fines were too high compared to other countries. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SMC Group of Members, as set out in the report of the Committee of 13. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee did not accept the amendments of the United Left Group to Article 2 and the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 18 became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u41	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, last Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The 6th regular meeting of the National Assembly starts today with mobility if you want, traffic problems, which will be the next item on the agenda today, but I am sad that there are only half of Members and Members present. Points 5 to 7. The 6th regular meetings, as has already been said today, deal with the transposition of EU directives into the Slovenian legal order, as we usually say. I will not repeat myself like my colleagues, I will not give you numbers, this has already been said, and we are late for most of these directives. We could have had a big debate here about why. The United Left somehow does not buy the story that this is only a result of the rapid change of governments in this decade, and in this haste we are taking an excessively cut-up approach to the transposition of directives into some laws, as our Law-Legal Service also points out. For example, very indicative as they warned, especially in this Tolling Act, the word "may" appears. You know, when the directive is transposed into some kind of legal order, they should be a little more specific – I hope that lawyers agree with me, even though my colleague here before me. In part, this was somehow corrected by the amendments, but again we have a story – and I would like to be in a positive sense a constructive opposition and I would say, here, a hat down. – when we have a government and a coalition in which lawyers dominate, but we get some, there is no translator in English, I can say, Shabaiser laws. When will this be over? We've been in the byte for a little over half a year, and it seems to me that we should take the legislation a little more seriously. If I touch this particular law in substance now, it is problematic. It is problematic because it mixes passenger passenger transport and transport somewhat awkwardly, and it is problematic on a whole range of issues that are still somehow open or perhaps not even sufficiently resolved, as pointed out by stakeholders both from the sector and from environmentally oriented civil society. If I touch just a few. For example, one question is to index the toll; yes or no and how and whether this means that we will have deflation and the toll will go down. Secondly, the issue of tolling itself, which is still quite open and connected at European level, is intertwined with the lobby, which form of electronic tolling will prevail. The third is the question of tolls, tolls outside the highway, highways and fast roads. Then there is a very important question here, but I will focus a little more on this when we talk about the amendments, externalising costs. The externalisation of costs in this type of traffic, when an unacceptable, awkward way of translating the directive. What's the matter here? At some of the costs charged for the use of the road network itself plus the wear-down of the road, of course, we must not forget that if you want, the ecological part that this directive allows can be introduced as a way, if you want, of the ecological transport fees that should be returned, as the gentleman of the department ordered, not only for some anti-group fences but actually into some more sustainable mode of mobility. In fact, what do we really want? We probably want flow, security and sustainable mobility. A law like this, the United Left cannot support it, but we will not oppose it, but I hope that our amendment will be voted on. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u43	The new Slovenian-Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u44	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The complete system of tolling of passenger and freight vehicles exceeding a maximum permissible mass of 3 000 500 kg in one marriage is certainly welcome. Of course, if the proposal for a law governing this area is well prepared and already does not require a number of amendments in the adoption process in the National Assembly and, of course, it is not a matter of re-admission under the time-limit imposed by the implementation of the European Union. Let's take a closer look. The new Tolling Act mainly introduces changes in tolls for freight vehicles, which are paid according to the actual toll route transported. As these will now be separated from the compulsory toll roads to be defined by the Government as such in accordance with the European Directive and to the select ones that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can define as such, a simple and logical question arises. Is it justified to collect tolls on all roads designated by the government as selective by its discretion, that is, on roads other than motorways or fast roads? In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the government will have to define with care the types of selected toll roads if it wants to protect domestic motorists. The way of harmonising the volume of the toll, i.e. the alignment once a year with the consumer price index, is also questionable in the proposal for a novelty, as it also allows for coordination in the event of deflation. The amendment of the coalition, which proposes to be harmonised once a year, provided that the price of living needs rises between January and December of the previous year, compared to the same period of the year before, exceeds the index 100, removes this deficit and is supported by the Group of Christian Democrats. The amount of penalties for offences committed, which are too high compared to other countries, is also questionable, but was not accepted at the meeting of the home committee, which would reduce them by 20%. Today we have well-respected colleagues and colleagues the possibility of a re-examination. The Christian Democrats will be supported by the amendment tabled by the SDS. We would expect the same from the coalition Members, if, of course, you are working, as you are always saying, for the benefit of our citizens. So why support the proposed tolling law? The only reason is in the regulation of tolling of passenger and freight vehicles in one place and thus in clear sectoral legislation and in order to comply urgently with European legislation providing for tolling for freight vehicles in relation to the distance transported. It is important that the bill retains the possibility of their tolling by stopping at toll stations during a transitional period, i.e. until the introduction of an electronic tolling system. In any case, future European electronic tolling will also be a major step forward in the Slovenian legal order in the field of tolling of both passenger and freight vehicles. Regardless of limited acquisition, Christian Democrats point out that the government will have to do many more things in this area, from the way in which to determine selected toll roads to the re-weighting of the fines for individual offences. After all, it is for Slovenian motorists who are in a much worse position compared to their residential colleagues in other comparable countries. In view of the above, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a tolling law despite numerous concerns. The full regulation is welcome, but we point out a number of these open questions that call for thorough reflection and responsible government action in the future in the drafting of legislative proposals that will not be lacking and need immediate amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u45	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. The modern centre supports the bill's proposal, despite the fact that a large number of amendments had to be tabled, which, last but not least, have been rectified by the Legislative and Legal Service. With the newly proposed regulation, the area previously regulated by two laws is the Road toll Act for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds three and a half tonnes and the Public Roads Act, the matter is now regulated in one law. The draft law will also transpose European legislation into the Slovenian legal order, namely Directive 1999/62/EC of 17. 6. 1999 and Directive 2004/52/EC, which provides the basis for ensuring the interoperability of European electronic tolling systems or the uniformity of electronic tolling standards, which will have a series of positive effects both on the transport of goods and on the environment. The aim of European legislation is to ensure that tolling systems or common standards are more efficient on toll roads by introducing tolling in free traffic, reducing road congestion, establishing a fairer tolling system in relation to road use and ensuring a tolling system that is not discriminatory to foreigners. The proposal for a law, inter alia, from the so-called Eurovignette Directive, also introduces a basis for charging air pollution costs and causing noise, with the funds collected devoted to financing more environmentally friendly modes of transport. The bill will therefore bring about a certain simplification of legislation that combines the same matter in one law while providing a basis for uniform, modern and more equitable tolling at European Union level. The bill will also have positive effects in the direction of promoting sustainable transport, which is why SMC, as already mentioned, will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u47	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u48	The proposed tolling law basically combines the content relating to to tolling for toll vehicles exceeding three and a half tonnes and to to tolling for passenger vehicles. This has now been separated in two separate laws, and this is now united in this proposal. The legislative and legal service has made a lot of comments on almost all the articles of the bill itself. It is said that the law was quite superficially prepared. Despite the amendments that have been tabled to remedy these shortcomings, there are still a number of open issues that we are drawing attention to in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have tabled an amendment to Articles 49 and 50, where we are reducing existing penalties by 20%, because we believe that fines are too high for Slovenian road hauliers and are higher than our neighbouring countries. We also note the inadequate way in which to determine the price of tolls, which is linked by this proposal to the consumer price index. Due to the economic situation, the country's financial instability can radically transform the consumer price index into one side or the other. It is more appropriate to determine the toll price, which can mitigate these extreme inclinations and more adapt to the macroeconomic sustainability of prices in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, if we support our two amendments, by which we reduce fines for Slovenian road hauliers, we will also support the proposal on tolls in the event of this confirmation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u49	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Road and tolling are currently regulated by two laws, the Public Roads Act and the Toll Code for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass is 3 000 500 kilograms. The new Tolling Act will repeal and allow the same law to regulate the tolling of passenger and freight vehicles, which is important in terms of the clarity of the sectoral legislation and its understanding for users and supervisory authorities. In the DeSUS Group, we have decided to support the bill mainly because the tolling of passenger vehicles remains largely the same, while the tolling of freight vehicles is aligned with the European Union Directive governing road charges for the use of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles and the Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll systems. Freight vehicles are thus subject to to tolling according to the distance transported, with three types of freight tolling covered by the law, namely to tolling at toll stations, electronic tolling in free traffic and European electronic tolling. The bill still maintains the possibility of tolling freight vehicles by stopping at toll stations, since this method of tolling is particularly important during the transitional period until the introduction of an electronic tolling system. The proposal brings a very important novelty, namely the introduction of the possibility of charging an external cost charge arising from transport pollution or noise pollution due to the transport of freight vehicles. The external cost fee will be the revenue of the State budget to be allocated to measures to improve the functioning of the transport system. Infringements relating to to the tolling of passenger vehicles will be monitored as so far by Darsa toll inspectors, police and financial authorities, and tolling more than 3 tonnes and a half of the maximum permissible mass will be carried out by only toll controllers. I would also like to draw attention to an important fact, namely the burden of Slovenian motorways with foreign transit freight. During the working week, only one toll belt remains available to the passenger vehicle, as the other is mostly held by foreign motorists. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it will be necessary to approach the transfer of transit freight to the railway as soon as possible, and we have been talking about this for a long time, and concrete actions in this direction have not yet been detected. As I said in the introduction, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill. We will also support the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u51	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Tolling Act is governed by areas governed by the Public Road Act and the Toll Code for vehicles with a maximum weight exceeding 3 000 500 kilograms. The draft law does not regulate new administrative and criminal proceedings, as the procedures do not change substantially and the way freight vehicles are tolled, i.e. vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3 thousand 500 kilograms. This law provides for a comprehensive regime for tolling of passenger and freight vehicles in one law. This proposal will also introduce European legislation into our legal order. Roads are mandatory on the trans-European road network and can also be introduced by EU Member States on certain other roads. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also has the possibility to designate a state road as a toll road, which is not a highway or a fast road, but is designed for remote traffic and is a parallel road or in direct competition with the mandatory toll road. The way to determine the toll and the exemption of tolls in essential components remains the same as the current one, the maintenance of the rules on vignettes for passenger vehicles and the type of tolling for freight vehicles is regulated: existing tolling by stopping at toll stations, free electronic tolling and European electronic tolling. When the electronic toll system is established, the tenderers will be able to offer any technology that meets the required requirements. e-traffic tolls are new to users, as there will no longer be a need to stop at toll stations for freight vehicles, which will have positive environmental effects and after the introduction of the electronic toll system, existing toll stations will also be removed. This will increase traffic flow, reduce environmental pollution slightly. The applicant also expects a favourable impact on the economy, as a toll system will be established which will allow the user to pay the toll in relation to the actual distance transported. This will make the toll system fairer, and all users will be in the same position, which will certainly be good for their competitiveness. Social Democrats are therefore also looking forward to the early definition of the establishment of an electronic toll system in free traffic, which will be fairer from now on than a valid vignette system, as this is based on flat-rate toll payment rather than on an actually transported route. The draft law also introduces, in accordance with the Eurovignette Directive, the charging of external charges arising from transport pollution or noise loads due to the transport of freight vehicles. External transport costs include, in particular, the costs of accidents, congestion, noise, air pollution, climate change, infrastructure damage, which have a negative impact on the quality of living of the population and the environment. An external cost charge shall be laid down by the Government if it is found that road vehicles on the part of toll roads cause damage to the environment which is greater than the average damage on other parts of toll roads where the external cost charge is not charged. The fee is the revenue of the State budget allocated to measures to improve the functioning of the transport system. Social Democrats support the solution to the integration of external transport costs into tolls according to the user's principle pays. In particular, we would like to see the funds raised to finance transport modes that will be more efficient and more environmentally friendly. In the debate on the Committee, we also drew attention to the insufficiently clear provisions of the proposal for a law on data preservation, such as images and other data records. The proposed amendments to the coalition eliminate these inconsistencies. According to the proposal of the law, toll supervisors control the vignette system, Dars, the police, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and only to the toll supervisors. With regard to the amount of fines for individual offences under this Act and the assumed liability of the responsible person, legal person and legal person, the Social Democrats agree with the proposer that the amount of the fine should also be prevented as far as possible from violating the provisions of this Act and thus achieve a special and general preventive effect of punishment. As the applicant points out, the fact is that the driver, as a toll collector, is not in principle interested in the service of the toll-paying offence and must be informed by the right entity by the rules of tolling and provided with the financial means by which it will pay the toll. Taking into account the fact that half of the fine imposed may be paid within a given period of time [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the legality of the decision by which the fine has been imposed is comparable to or even lower than the prescribed fines in other Member States of the European Union. The Social Democrats will support the proposal for a tolling law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u53	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 24 July. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. We are re-amendment of the sixth indent of Article 2. Before I presented the view of the parliamentary group on the whole of the law, I, of course, pointed out that it was going in the same way as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had warned, for a kind of awkward, often too often a direct transposition of the directive into the law itself. What is in fact at our amendment, I will read the existing indent: "The external cost fee is a fee charged to compensate for the costs of air pollution or noise pollution due to traffic." Since this "or rather" may be – we know – we have debated about a Member for six months – very open to some legal arguments. We propose that the word 'orient' be replaced by 'in' because, of course, outsiders, among the so-called external costs, include both noise and air pollution. The delegation from Desus said well that these external costs charges would be the revenue of the state budget, which I hope will be allocated to some other, different, environmentally less controversial forms of sustainable mobility. The transition to the railway was mentioned, and 80% of road freight is transit traffic Not only, but I was asking questions about how it would be with the construction of the state bicycle network, but it was said that there was currently no money for it, even though I doubt there would be so much money to mitigate climate change; we were facing floods and could still list them. [[…]] Some problem, some of the reservations we have with these innovations that are present here, is that we have not actually had some in-depth debate on transport policy, about the transport strategy. What we have right now is kind of on the table, kind of awkward, and again we have a situation, well, someone will say, because these strategy papers are already a few hundred written, but again we have a situation where we don't really know what we want, we're late, we're gonna pay some pens if I put it that way, and then we're fast-tracking something together. [[…]] Then the coalition voluntarily amendments the nomotechniko, the opposition proposes some substantive amendments to the laws, but we are somehow, which has been a tradition in Slovenia for almost a quarter of a century, over-voted; but I hope that a little common agricultural understanding will finally prevail in this Chamber and that this amendment will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. We have already presented certain shortcomings in this law in the presentation itself. First of all, with our proposal with an amendment, where we want to reduce the fines on our own – sorry – in determining the price of tolls, where we have pointed out that toll prices are not well managed and tied to the price index for living costs, because this index can change radically in the event of a sudden rise in the price of oil and actually binds to the fundamental changes of the toll price itself. Thus, the existing proposal is more appropriate where toll prices are linked or more easily adjusted to macroeconomic sustainable price growth. In short, these extreme rejections of index growth in terms of living costs can be more easily mitigated. For the fines already mentioned, we propose that the fines be reduced by 20% and that the fines be placed at reasonable acceptable height, because, compared to other neighbouring countries, these fines are higher in Slovenia and, I would say, unacceptable and unacceptable for Slovenian road hauliers and further for the economy itself. The exercise of toll control by Dars was also exposed to the committee itself. The shortcomings in this law have been highlighted, as Dars has certain costs with the exercise of toll control itself, and the fines taken in full go to the state budget to the full. We know that Dars has difficulties, that he has a lot of obligations, that he still has in the future to build up the missing motorway cross, in particular the links to the Republic of Croatia, and that it would be correct for the Ministry of Finance to reimburse Dars for at least the costs he has with this exercise of toll control. The annual fines collected amount to about 6 million and the cost of collecting these tolls alone is slightly more than 3 million. Here Dars with his contributions or at his own expense covers the exercise of the same toll control. We have tabled two amendments to reduce fines by proposing that fines are now placed at a reasonable limit and are not undervalued in any way, are acceptable to the Slovenian economy and Slovenian carriers, so we propose that these amendments be supported by other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u57	Mrs Andreja Katič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, it would only touch the amendment of the United Left. I am convinced that we are talking about the same thing, and we all agree that the external cost charge is being introduced. If I look at the law, it is stated that the external cost charge is a fee charged to compensate for costs related to air pollution or noise pollution due to traffic. And the United Left suggests that this "or" be replaced by the word "in". Social Democrats, as I said in my position, follow this explanation that the word "or" is broader than the word "in" and includes "in" and "or". I think that the representatives of the government here can also say that this does not in fact close or recharge the charge for these external costs. I am sure, once again, that we want the funds collected from this fee to be earmarked for sustainable transport. As we discussed this law in the parliamentary group, as well as with non-governmental organisations, we said that it could somehow be a source for a second track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u59	Did you want a replica? Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I don't want to go ping-pong now. My colleague said it was wider, including "in" and "or". We're in the United Left against this "or" interpretation. We're for being uniformly "in." This is the key to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u61	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for the floor. With regard to the amendment tabled by the United Left, I would like to join the position of colleague Katič. I think that the regulation currently envisaged is broader and gives more room for manoeuvre to charge an external cost charge than would have been the case if the proposed amendment had been adopted. As regards the amendments proposed by the coalition, these are amendments that have actually been adopted on the basis of concerns at the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. With regard to the amendment to Article 13 establishing a mechanism for the coordination of tolls with the consumer price index, we have assessed in the coalition that such an amendment should be adopted in view of the sustainable financing of Dars, which, in fact, is committed to the repayment of loans in excess of EUR 2 billion under the credit contracts. So it's a big commitment. There is also a State guarantee in the back, and it is right to allow for some kind of legal arrangement which, in the event of inflation, allows for the sustainable financing of this company and then the servicing of credits or the payment of credits. As regards the amendment to Article 41, this amendment also arose and was tabled on the basis of concerns at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. For example, when an infringement is brought against an offender, the question arises whether Dars or the road manager has the recording. Earlier, the provision that it may be made available is now, in order to protect these possible offenders, provided that this recording must be kept by the controller until the end of the proceedings, all with a view to resolving the infringement procedure. So we think that this amendment is needed and we will support it, as we have proposed. As regards the amendments of the SDS Group on the reduction of penalties, we believe that the proposed penalties are appropriate to follow the policy of special and general prevention. The reduction, as proposed, would not actually contribute to anything, say a better material position of legal persons to whom it is intended, but to natural persons. We need to know that those criminal provisions relate to offences committed by legal persons and persons responsible and are legal persons who earn some profits on the market and are accordingly higher. But it's still punishments from a few hundred to a few thousand euros. It's not about some extreme punishment. As I mentioned earlier, we estimate that the general and special preventive effects are being followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u63	In addition, the amendment I tabled in the debate to Article 2 of the United Left Group was also expressed in general terms to others, which is also kind of the custom of the first amendment. I now ask very specifically whether anyone else would like to discuss this amendment of the United Left to Article 2. Then I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Everyone has a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues, including representatives of the Ministry! I welcome your decision, Mr President, that we usually touch the content a little wider when we consider the first amendment. But first to the amendment of the United Left to Article 2. Let me make it very clear here that we Christian Democrats have assessed that this amendment is not really necessary, that it does not improve the text of the law, and that it will not receive our support. I would, however, like to point out once again, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, the following. We are firmly convinced that the Government will have to define with all due care the types of selected toll roads if it is to protect domestic motorists. That's exactly what we're underlining here. Domestic motorists must be protected. For we estimate that this moment is in some deprived position. The way of harmonising the volume of the toll, i.e. the alignment once a year with the consumer price index, is also questionable in the proposal for a novelty, as it also allows for coordination in the event of deflation. Here we have problems because we know we can face inflation and we can also face deflation. The amendment of the coalition, which proposes to be harmonised once a year, provided that the price of living needs increases over the period January–December of the previous year, compared to the same period of the year before, exceeds the index 100, this deficiency is eliminated, and I would like to announce here that we will also support New Slovenia's Members. Where else do we have the problem and put it as a questionable solution? There is also a questionable amount of penalties for offences committed, which are too high compared to other countries. This is our assessment that these penalties are too high, but, unfortunately, we regret this, unfortunately, the amendment, which would reduce them by 20%, has unfortunately not been adopted. And today we have, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues, an opportunity, a last chance for a retrial. Christian Democrats will be supported by the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also, of course, expect the coalition Members, who have a majority in this National Assembly, to support this SDS amendment if what you are really saying is what you want to do for the benefit of the citizens of this country. We will now set up a matter here to see how sincere this is, whether support for the amendment will go or not. Of course we're predicting it. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 2? Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u66	Yeah, it's a short replica. I've heard it here a lot, we think it's different. In fact, the law becomes uniform in some of the techniques relating to inflows into the budget. If a parliamentary group, if a gentleman with a long kilometer in Parliament believes that this does not improve the law, it is his legitimate opinion and he will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Any other discussion? No, no, no. If no one else wants to discuss it, then I am closing the debate on Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would point out once again in Article 13, where the determination of the toll price is linked to the index of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia. There is a risk that we may fall under existing binding spirals in the event of a rapid rise in certain prices. This is a binding spiral to which this will legally bind us and determine, for example, in the event of an extreme increase in the price of oil, also an extreme increase in all living goods and an extreme increase in the toll in the Republic of Slovenia itself. That's what they say. There's no room for maneuvers here. This is what I think is the danger of a binding spiral. And there's no room for maneuvers here. This is an index and binding, fixed binding to this existing index. The current proposal is good, is suitable and has the possibility of softening these extremes of price developments in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a good proposal, so here are the concerns and in such an extreme case of price developments, the automation that is linked to the index itself. This is a danger that can come from setting the toll itself. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we warn that this solution is not the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I would just like to mention, I didn't mention it before, as far as the amendment is concerned, it also eliminates the deflationary effects on which it was thought. As for the discussion by my colleague Žnidar, I believe that this forecast, that inflation will rise or that the price of oil will rise and that this will lead to an increase in toll, is somehow too pessimistic. An increase in oil prices may also have an impact on the price growth index, if, for example, the prices of other factors affecting this price do not change, but it is premature to say that we can now, on the basis of the adoption of this law, open up some kind of spiral that will significantly undermine the toll. Of course, if this proves to be true for a time, I don't know, over a period of several years, it may be necessary to change the charging of tolls. More importantly, we have before us a company that is 100 per cent state-owned, which has, to say the least, a huge obligation to pay credits for the construction of motorways and must have sustainable financing, which depends to the very least on what inflational developments. In these cases, the State is also married, and I think it is appropriate to adopt such an arrangement, which will, however, harmonise the tolls in such a way that inflation is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on Article 13. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on Article 41. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 46. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u72	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will be happy to support this amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I am convinced that the penalties that are in force under the law are significantly too high. Above all, I think for reasons that, given the particular problems that our society faces, we have 130 000 unemployed, we have 400 000 pensioners living on the edge of poverty, we have a third of the people or more who receive minimum wage in our country, and so on. Thus, we have almost 70% of citizens and citizens on the brink of poverty. Except for the state administration and public administration and the structures involved, everyone else is already on the brink of poverty in this country. And we hope to speak, too, the representatives of the SMC, the gentleman who discussed it, said that the penalties had absolutely no special effect on the functioning of families alone. Approximately, I don't know if I said it exactly, but there was a debate in this context. I think this is distasteful because we need to be aware that our country's problem has come so far as to pay very close attention to every detail that burdens our citizens and citizens. And I'm not saying that people have to commit crimes and so on. However, people with a pension of 500, 600 or 400 or 300 euros happen to have a problem. We've got 4,000, 3,000, 2,000 and so on in here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed a 20% reduction in penalties. I think it's acceptable that this is fair and that this is responsible of the National Assembly and all those who sit here. We can talk here, and we can laugh, including some who sit where the government sits, and I ask you not to laugh cynically, because you certainly have enough money to pay any penalty without any problem. These poor people I'm talking about, who are 70% in this country, they can't do that. And I find it extremely unfair and extremely unfair not to feel sorry for these people. Of course, not those who have never tried what it means to live with 600 Euros of wages. I tried, I know what it means. These people don't even have the capacity to survive from month to month, they don't even have enough to pay the bills, and so on, let alone families who have two children or three. And then say it doesn't have any effect. Of course it does. It has a lot of influence. Every euro these people turn 10 times before they put it out. And I would expect that if this country, this national assembly, the policy of this country was not able to ensure that they could at least survive normally for the wages they receive, then at least make sure that a step is taken where possible. And nothing in our country has recently shown that anything would change in this area when we talk about the social threat of most of our citizens and citizens. Nothing happened. Once again, we are burdening the economy again daily with new such and different taxes. In the short term, we can expect tax receipts, and then we can expect a real estate tax in the short term. Are these incentives to take this country a step further? I ask this question from the state and public administration, sitting in the secluded seats, changing cities and living as gods in this country. And you don't care how my poor nation lives, you don't care, you don't care. Then there's the government laughing cynically. That's what pisses me off to the extreme. An extremely distasteful, poor nation that pays for your position to hold it, and you've been hauling pretty money your whole life. And then allow yourself to laugh cynically, which is a great deal of rudeness and a lot of irresponsibility. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for being a little louder because I'm such a person, but I can't help myself. But I think it's important to say things clearly, in a way that all people understand what we're talking about. But not bend over and with some such and other foreigners come by the majority of the people, that most of you do not understand what we are talking about. And today we are also talking in this law about having the opportunity to reduce penalties, and we are not doing that. Once again, 70%, including some 400,000 pensioners, live between €300 and €600. And even pensioners are still today, if you look on our roads, also drivers. And there's a lot of them. And that we could not, by 20%, as we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, reduce the penalties for these people who cannot start from month to month and end the end of this month in order to cover all that the state and state apparatus require of them?Oh, my God! But where we have a chance, we don't do anything. And here's the chance. No one can tell, even the Mir Cerar Party, which has spoken so much, how much smarter it will be, how different it will be, how these new faces will be, ah, and all. And today you can see what you are, how you are, and how you are solving the key problems that affect every single person in this country, and especially those who are having trouble living from month to month. I am not talking about those privileged people in this society who don't care what the penalties are, and even if it were 10,000 euros, they would easily pay it, while 400 thousand pensioners can't do it, and 130 thousand unemployed, or one third or more people on minimum wages. Go a little bit among those people and let them explain to you, dear colleagues and colleagues here in Parliament, and representatives of the government. And this unacceptable state apparatus for the Slovenian people. Once any government in position understands that a poor nation can no longer endure this, the economy can no longer endure it. And nothing is done in those segments where it is necessary to reduce the cost of functioning and functioning the country. I'll finish it slowly, Mr. President. That's what I'm trying to say. So far, we've had a very good chance to see how it manages state money in colleges. That's embarrassing. And then they say they don't have the money to make it work. Then we see how money goes from college to private pockets to make more at the time they're there at work than they get paid with such and different stories. That's a lot of shit in this country, and it's gonna have to be done sometime. Someone's gonna have to hit the table and say it's over. The media has discovered this. This matter is now sinking again. Nothing's gonna happen. And where the government of Mira Cerar is. Where are you the most powerful parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u73	Mr. Pojibich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u74	Mr President, I think these are important issues. Mr President, all of this has to do with this amendment. In this liberalised country, we allow them to function as small gods in this country. For these small people, who are the majority of them in this country who work for these people, we cannot make the move we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party to reduce the penalties by 20%. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! I think that if we are honest, if we are responsible, including the party Desus, I must call on them this time to support our amendment, because I think this is right, fair to most of those people who for this national assembly, for this policy, for this bureaucracy works to enable it to survive from month to month. I also think it would help them to pay less than 200 or 400 or 500 euros in fines. Because such people who cannot live up to their obligations from month to month, as far as the family’s functioning is concerned, will be punished irrespective of how much it is written down, with great difficulty. They'll be further accredited, etc. There are a number of new problems that arise in this way. I therefore invite all Members of the Group to support this amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party by Article 49 and Article 50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u76	Procedurally. Mr Vice President, look, we are now at the point of dealing with the Tolling Act. The amendment proposed by the SDS Group refers to the reduction of penalties for offences against legal persons, i.e. by domestic companies, independent entrepreneurs involved in transport. It's a violation. I don't know if he runs off at a toll station if he's talking about those so-called OBU devices. Now we have witnessed a debate that has nothing to do with today’s topics. We have road transport today. I, Mr Vice-President, since all the other Members have been given a whole bunch of insults, would suggest that you teach Ambassador Pojbič what point we are at, that we care about all citizens, but now we are really in road transport. We are now considering the fate of companies, logistics companies of independent entrepreneurs, not 400,000 pensioners, because they do not usually have a truck and do not commit these offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u77	Mrs. Popotat asked [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. I gave Mrs. Poropat my word. There's no replica to the replica. [[advertising from the hall]] That was a replica. Procedurally. All right, Mr. Pojbich. Here's the replica. Please stick to Article 49, the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to say this about the Slovenian public that I know what point I'm at and that I know what we're talking about. Even employers have a problem if we have to pay such penalties in this given situation, such as those with authority, you have done nothing for these companies to survive, let alone to help them, so that they can be employed and that people can then receive adequate wages for survival. Don't tell me I don't know what I'm talking about. I don't allow that, but you can be a member of the SMC a hundred times, these new faces. The old faces know what's going on. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u79	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I also wished to point out that Article 49 in particular lays down penalties for offences against legal persons, independent entrepreneurs and those responsible for those legal persons. That's what Mr. Zorčič said before me. I keep saying that because I'm getting ready for it. I think that in Desus we are aware that our citizens, especially our pensioners, are having a hard time living and that we cannot, as has been said, for them, overlook that their living conditions are deteriorating if we impose additional costs on them, such as tolls, etc. But when it comes to legal persons, I do not think that we should mix this up and that the article we are discussing really needs to be read. However, I would warn you because I am speaking to the amendment to Article 49. As written in the 24th Amendment Review. 3. 2015, as prepared by the Service of the National Assembly, where it is indicated in the fifth paragraph that the number 300 is replaced by the number 240 and the number 800 is replaced by the number 640. I think that this is ours at Article 4, because in Article 5 we do not talk about it, these items are not. I'd warn you, it's the right time to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Žnidar Ljubo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me just give you the next one for a minute. We, as proposers of this amendment, which reduces the penalties by 20%, have considered this proposal well. We also received a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia following the amendment to this article, where they proposed that penalties should be reduced by 50%. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party are absolutely not against fines, the fines for offences must absolutely be, but they must be at reasonable heights. Let them be proportional to the economy as it is in Slovenia. We think the punishments are too high. Such cases are also in other areas, in the fields of agriculture and other laws, which are currently disproportionate, too high, given the situation of both the economy and the citizens at this moment in the Republic of Slovenia. That's what I'm warning you. After the study, we did not agree with the proposal to reduce the fines by 50%, but we suggest that the fines should be reduced by 20% to a reasonable acceptable amount, which is being transferred by the Slovenian economy at this moment. We are not advocates of offenders, but let these fines take place at a reasonable level. That's all we're after.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Any other discussion about Article 49 and the amendment? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate on this amendment. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemna Grebenska, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law contains in particular the amendments required by the new Regulation No 165/2014 on tachographs in road transport. This new tachograph Regulation will gradually replace the current Council Regulation No 3821/85, which also regulates this area. Regulation No 165/2014 will, inter alia, gradually introduce a more technologically advanced tachograph to reduce the possibility of social regulation manipulation. In addition, procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport will be updated and harmonised. These are rules on driving times, rest and rest for drivers. Part of the new tachograph regulation mentioned above relating to the use of driver’s tachograph cards and tachograph cartridges will start to apply already in 2015 and it is therefore necessary to amend and supplement this law. In addition to this, the bill contains some minor changes in the use of tachographs, tachographs, workshops and tachograph cards, and criminal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was also addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at the 7th meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. 3. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Transport Workers and Association Union of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The main objective of the bill is to accommodate certain Articles of Regulation 165/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on road tachographs, which will gradually replace the previous tachograph regulation in road transport, thereby gradually introducing a new smart technologically advanced tachograph, and updating and harmonising road safety procedures such as driving times and rest and rest of drivers. In addition, some minor changes have been made in the field of records and in the criminal provisions which provide for certain infringements the lower and upper limits of the fine imposed. As already mentioned, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee, which pointed out that the main comments of the Legislative and Legal Service had already been taken into account in the proposed amendments. A representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development also participated, stressing that the Commission supports the proposal. The Committee adopted amendments to the draft law, amendments to the parliamentary groups of coalition parties, as set out in the report of 12. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They have become irrelevant amendments to Articles 7 and 22 of the Coalition Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u88	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Again, we have before us a proposal for a new law that we must adopt if we are to prevent the payment of fines due to the delay in implementing European legislation. Even the Government itself, in the role of the applicant in its explanation, cites as the main objective the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport the placement of certain articles of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on road tachographs. In the New Slovenia Group, we have the feeling that the Government is sending only things to the National Assembly that we must of course accept – we must, because otherwise Members will be responsible for damaging the state budget due to the payment of the penalty. However, we strongly oppose such arguments in New Slovenia because the government is the only one responsible for the timely preparation of legislative changes and the transmission of proposals to Parliament. So the reference to the time component alone is more than just an excuse for the slowness and incompetence of the government coalition. The introduction of a new smart and technologically more advanced tachograph or a Slovenian control device that will prevent many abuses does not at this time mean its actual placement in our control system. This is a gradual introduction, which will not start until 2018, it is only after 4 years. By today's amendment to the law, we do not actually improve anything in our country, gain nothing, or lose anything. If, of course, we exclude additional sanctions in case of non-compliance with the prescribed 2-year time limit for tachograph control, we wonder whether it may not be just an additional profit for some lobbyists. Why the government would rather not consider the possibility of exempting fire trucks from the mandatory use of these control devices in addition to intervention vehicles, especially in cases where firefighting companies do not use them for intervention services. The fact is that these vehicles are not primarily intended for longer driving, and the mandatory installation of tachographs for companies represents only a large cost which does not justify its purpose. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats for all the reasons mentioned above We will not support the amendment of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport, nor will we oppose it. This is your responsibility, but when we need our good firefighters, just remember when you adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposed law. This implements part of Regulation 165/2014/EU, which will gradually replace the old Regulation. Among other things, technological and more advanced tachographs will be introduced, not immediately, but of course this bill provides a legal basis for modernisation in this area. However, since this introduction of a modern tachograph will also bring benefits, this is a greater emphasis on the provision of compulsory rest, i.e. greater control, greater equality between transport operators themselves, as well as greater efficiency and effective supervision, this bill or law in force will certainly lead to many good effects in the field of labour law for workers involved in transport, i.e. mobile workers. On this basis, however, there will also be an opportunity to increase competition between those who carry out transport in an unacceptable manner or who are more likely to violate the law and those who adhere to the rule of law, as greater control will allow offenders to be detected earlier. The Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u92	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me present the position of the SDS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time, Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and Recording Equipment in Road Transport. Here in this law, the Government is certainly late and the main objective of this law is to give appropriate guidance to Article 34 of EU Regulation No 165/14 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain social legislation relating to road transport into law. The Regulation will, inter alia, gradually introduce a new smart technologically more advanced tachograph and harmonised procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport. There are minor changes to the tachograph layout. The law asks us whether marriage solutions will help drivers to carry out their work within the legal time allowed, since they are often forced into infringements and road safety is also threatened. In our opinion, all abuses will be prevented by a new tachograph, which will gradually begin to be introduced after 2018. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, nor will we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u94	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! We have a second consideration of the proposed amendment to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order certain provisions of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on road tachographs, which will gradually replace the previous regulation on road tachograph. The new tachograph regulation will, inter alia, gradually introduce new smart technologically more advanced tachographs. There will also be up-to-date and harmonised road traffic surveillance procedures, such as driving rules and driver rest and rest. In the Desus Group, we hope that the proposed legal solutions will help to ensure that drivers are no longer under constant pressure from their employers and are able to carry out their work within the legal time allowed. She warned that employers are forcing professional drivers to violate the rules on working time and compulsory rest, such as the use of magnets, where drivers are often forced to pay their own fines for committed infringements, which ultimately lead to less road safety. In the Desus Group, we hope that these abuses will be prevented by at least a new tachograph, which will start gradually after 2018, which is not a good forecast for abused workers, as this means that they will be subject to at least three years of abuse, which, in our view, is unacceptable. The tachograph will also need not be replaced as soon as it enters the market, but when the old tachograph or the life of the vehicle is exhausted, i.e. the principle of changing the analogue and digital tachograph. In addition to these solutions, some minor changes in the field of records and criminal provisions are made in the proposal for an amendment setting out the fines imposed for certain infringements. As we have been accustomed to, the Ministry also at the time of the adoption of this amendment points out that amendments and amendments to the law should be adopted as soon as possible, since the part of the regulation relating to the use of driving cards and topographical inputs is to apply as early as March this year. Although the Regulation was already adopted in February 2014, we, as is already a constant practice, are catching a deadline for implementation, which is March 2015. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Katič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Amendments to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport are necessary as a result of the new EU regulation on tachograph or road traffic control equipment which regulates the use of driving cards and tachographs. The previous EU regulations have already been introduced into our legal order by law. This new regulation will gradually introduce a new smart technologically more advanced tachograph and will update and harmonise road traffic social legislation control procedures in particular with regard to driving times, holidays and driver rest. However, part of the Regulation should be properly introduced into our legislation by March 2015, as parts of this Regulation are already in force with this date. The proposed amendments are without prejudice to the basic rules of the existing law, which is designed to govern basic rules on social legislation in road transport on the basis of EU rules, and to the powers and sanctions imposed by the competent authorities in the implementation of this law. The proposed amendment of the law also follows the principle that the amount of the penalty is determined according to the actual gravity of the offence. In particular, changes are needed because the European Commission has foreseen an amended way of categorising very serious infringements of the provisions on driving time, rest and rest for drivers and tachographs and in order to set a ceiling on the fine under the Offences Act. On the basis of the findings of the supervisory authorities on findings of infringements in practice, new or additional provisions on the sanctioning of certain infringements have been added to the proposal. This introduces a procedure for supervisory authorities for the handling of tachograph systems by means of specific dedicated objects, which is very common in practice. A sanction is added to the issue of certificates of activity of the driver for unjustified reasons, as it has been shown that in practice the certificates issued are also adapted for periods where the driver has proven to be driving the vehicle. A penalty shall be added for non-compliance with the provisions under which, after the date of the journey and the individual vehicle, the employer must keep used tachographs, data transferred and manual records and extracts on his or her seat in the record of the use of working time for persons carrying out mobile activities in road transport. The sanctioning of the obligation for the employer to confirm the use of the vehicle by tachograph by means of the carrier card at the beginning and at the end of use is prescribed. A penalty shall be added relating to non-compliance with the provisions governing the 12-day weekly rest rule relating to the single occasional international transport of persons. In addition, sanctions for non-compliance with the required two-year tachograph control period shall be regulated. Sanctions shall be imposed in the event that the driver has not marked all the information for a period which the tachograph, while being corrupt or not working properly, has no longer properly recorded. The mandatory recording of the driver's activities was introduced in 1969. The driver had to record his daily activities in his notebook himself. The system was developing. The first tachograph was designed with the idea that the driver was willing to control himself. Today, there is still a question that arises at the time of consideration of this law every time, whether the proposed legal solutions will help to ensure that drivers are no longer under constant pressure from some of their employers and will be able to carry out their work within the legal time allowed, and when, if, a technique or an effective system is introduced that prevents such abuse and protects drivers in relation to their employers. The content of the law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport is less known to the general public and has a significant impact on the safety of all road users, which is even more important for Slovenia than for a highly transit country for freight vehicles. Social Democrats will support the proposed amendments to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. I welcome the representative of the government. Colleagues and colleagues! Because I'm the last in this series of discussions to be held by 7. Dots, I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues and colleagues have already said. Another EU directive is being transposed. I'd touch another matter. One of the best documentary films last year was a documentary in Italian-Croatian co-production with a key Slovenian player. It's a TIR film. But it's not about the second track, the TIR is the shortcut that comes from French. Branko Završan first took a driving test for the truck, then drove a truck for the Italian carrier for six months. If you looked at the viewer of this film on YouTube, you would see how important this topic is, which combines e-tachographs on one side, if I put it that way, and at the same time some right to protect workers. This has been said quite a bit by the predecessors. What is possibly disturbing in this bill is that this will come into force in 2018 and that in fact the old trucks can still have this classic tachograph as long as they are in use. As a result, I am surprised that, usually, we are in a social bloc together, a colleague and a colleague from SD and Desus warned about this, but they said they would vote in favour of this law. That seems kind of counterlogical to me. That's exactly why we're being held back in the United Left to this law. There is little too likely to be talk of a criminal side where workers are often short-lived. In the United Left, we would like to talk more about the protection of workers themselves in this debate, in order to have an amendment to introduce these tachographs, if not this year, in order to set a transitional period for how long they will still be able to use old tachographs. At the same time, since I am in the IT business, I have no illusions that new tachographs will not be able to cheat. We come into the period of the so-called Internet of Things, where everything, as my students say, will be hackable. It is likely that new tachographs will also be able to wait, and it will probably have to be dealt with in some way. I have to repeat myself a little bit, without any serious consideration of transport policy, just like without any serious consideration of Slovenia's energy strategy, we are introducing some directives into our legal order and are somehow not being rude, lacking. For this reason, of course, the United Left has reservations about this law. As the opposition's colleagues have already mentioned, somehow this dictatorship is that this should be introduced if you are not responsible for the penalty, if I put it that way. But I agree that those who write these laws should write a little more thoughtfully. We will not vote in favour, we will not vote against. We are aware, however, that in fact the life of truckers is not only a specific subculture, but a very demanding shish, where people are often forced into illegal activities, operating over physical capabilities, thus putting themselves at risk both of them and of all participants in transport. Given how this directive has been translated or will be in our legal order, the United Left somehow fears that this situation will not improve by the end of this decade. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. On the contrary, the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of AND 23. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 33/91-1, 42/97, 66/2000, 24/03, 69/04, 68/06 and 47/13 laying down the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of the right to judicial protection and subordinated provisions of the Court of Justice Act, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 33/91-1, 42/97, 66/2000, 24/03, 69/04, 68/06 and 47/13 94/07, and JUDGMENT No. 94/07, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 17/95, WITH AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 MEPs and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'll start like this: it's moving. In fact, since 2008, we have been alerting the SDS to such or other irregularities, at least in this process I am participating alone, and other party colleagues have done so earlier. In recent years or in recent years, at least we have been talking about justice. For example, in 2008 it was not allowed to talk about these matters, or at least some thought so. Of course, within the judiciary too, the situation is such that they also point to irregularities there. As you can see, a lot of judges have been calling lately. Today's topic, or today's agenda item, is, of course, based on the suspicion of serious violations of the Law on Courts, then the Court of Justice and, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution is that act that is, in fact, the foundation of each house or the skeleton of each house. I like to make a comparison, and I'll say so. The Constitution is something like the foundation of the house and the walls and the roof. Everything else, of course, follows. The Constitution is, of course, one that is also the highest act to be respected by the courts. Thus, Article 22 of the Constitution provides for the equal protection of the rights of all citizens and provides in Article 23 for the right to so-called judicial protection. These two articles are, of course, intended primarily for the judiciary and the judges. These two articles must, in the first place, be respected and dealt with by judges, and therefore citizens can expect the implementation of these two constitutional principles. Of course, these two constitutional principles have been implemented in Article 14 of the Law on Courts. Of course, there is talk of a so-called legal judge. The essence of the problem or the essence of everything in this area is, above all, the so-called legal judge or natural judge, which means that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is the one to whom the Constitution and the law, namely Article 24 of the Law on the Courts, guaranteed that his case will be resolved by a so-called natural judge, a random judge, a legal judge, if you wish, and not a judge who would want it, and not a judge who will be appointed by someone out of some interest. Therefore, of course, Article 106 of the Rules of Procedure specifies precisely, very precisely, how it is necessary to draw up an annual timetable for the work of judges. This, of course, means that this arrangement should be known in advance for a year. At the same time, this means that the courts, as provided for in Article 160 of the Rules of Procedure, must assign all the documents received to the judges you are in the process of being appointed. It means that the judge can't gather, but I would judge this or that, or he can't say it, and I won't judge it, but he has to make a motion for a determination, which of course the law specifically foresees. All this leads to what I will now explain on the practical case that we have in court, I will take the case of the Supreme Court, because right here we consider it illegal – what do we have? We have a list of matters that the responsible persons must file in alphabetical order. On the other hand, we have an annual schedule of work. And that means that each file must be assigned by alphabetical order to the judge in turn. So, this file to this judge, this file to this judge, this one, this one. Nothing can be different. Nothing can be different, because it is only in this way that it is possible to respect the order of justice, the law on courts and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, this system operates between 8 and 15 hours. The parallel system shall enter into force at 3 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the parallel system. This means that the administrative staff, ordered by the court's management, the administrative staff, the specified clerk, I believe they're watching us there now, at least that's how they predicted they'd be watching us. Precisely designated clerk who was brought to the Supreme Court from the lowest court because she is a trustworthy person. This clerk calls down to the Supreme Court, or district court, or district court, and orders: this file and this one send it to me after 3 p.m. And the administrative staff, of course, will do it. Which files, of course, determine the direction, are determined in the Supreme Court. And then what happens? Between 15:00 and 16:00, the writings they set up at the Supreme Court come. The result — what? Since they already have a list of judges appointed by the annual schedule, and because they already have alphabetical records of the day that they came to the Supreme Court, and because they order: this and this file send me at this and this hour, it is clearly at 3:30, it is clear where this writing will go in alphabetical order. And it's clear which judge will get him in his hands. Ladies and gentlemen, internal control, i.e. the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, which they say they can't even do, but if we change the law, we could, of course, show a number of such cases. I'll say, I have information on a number of such cases. However, in our request, we only use the information we received from the lawyer in Patria's case to make it clear to ourselves. You remember well how it is with Patricia between 18 and 20. 6th, as it was supposed, has already arrived at the Supreme Court. You can open the papers, and you'll see what it was like back then, that's between 18 and 20. 6th of 2014 In an illegal manner, this file arrived illegally at the Supreme Court at 3:30 p.m. The letter's gone, he's gone. He's gone. The accompanying letter, which shows that it came to the Supreme Court, is no longer missing. You're not gonna believe this! At 3:30 p.m. 6. They knew exactly that Judge Tratnikov was getting the case. They knew exactly because they had the order of the judges and because they had five files, which I will quote later from the bench in alphabetical order, because now I don't have time. And so they knew exactly that Mrs Tratnikov was getting it, which, of course, wanted to get out immediately because she was supposed to be on vacation. We should have known that sooner or later and ruled it out. But they didn't. And then Mr Maslesha refused to release her twice. No, no, no. And you won't believe it, see, 24. 6. And he changed his mind and said he was going to redefine Mrs. Zalik's case. Of course they didn't even book it. And, of course, he redefined again in a way that he knew he was getting this from Mrs Zalikova. See, we in the parliamentary group have proposed – what can we actually propose in this area of the National Assembly? That the Justice Department goes there and does the surveillance. Later, the Legal and Legal Service warned that this could not be done. Mrs Lipaj, Vice-President or Vice-President of the Supreme Court, as I have seen in the newspaper, said that if the Minister reads the newspapers, there will be no supervision here. He's not gonna be monitoring anything here, he's gonna read the papers, we're gonna tell him what to do. Well, you're being humiliated a little bit, and you're protecting them. But okay, if you like this way of working, you're humiliated, and you're not ready to do anything in this area, and you're okay. We then proposed a decision whereby the judiciary should request a report in this area from the Supreme Court. In the meantime, one would expect them to bring about a change of law following an urgent procedure in order to enable them to exercise such control directly, because they have it in lower courts by the judiciary. But the coalition said no. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you can vote whatever you want. You can vote that today is 30 degrees in Ljubljana. Yes, such a conclusion will be the number, the head of the National Assembly, everything will be, but nature is not like that. It's not like that. Instead of voting at least a decision saying that the judiciary should request a report. No, it's not! This means that the coalition is ready to continue to protect, I will say nothing but illegal action. Now there's one more thing. If you say so, O.K., it makes up this Gorenak because he always has something against the courts, let's say you say so. I'm asking you, there's a very clear document in the file. 4. In 2013, the KPK Jankovic-Janša case at the Supreme Court was brought to the attention of Judge Borivoj Rozman. Look, Judge Borivoy Rozman, you have a document, it's the Supreme Judge, because it's not one kubajigi. This is the Supreme Judge. Chief Justice Borivoj Rozman said: "You have assigned me a list of KPK in Janša. I'm not a legal judge, I'm not a natural judge, and if I take over this file, they're in violation of Articles 23 and 22. That's why I won't take it." Look, if you don't believe the SDS, if you don't believe me, then at least you can trust Boris Rozman, the Supreme Judge. And you won't believe it, even then they wrote the file incorrectly. The record was written in an entirely different register, not in the administrative records, where it should be written. This was also pointed out by the said judge. It’s Jansha again — isn’t it interesting? And from this I can conclude that you probably reject such things, and so on, I'll say, finding an irregularity in the Supreme Court. They can say, "No, that's not true!" No, that's not true, we're told. And the Justice Minister says, "No, that's not true." It's just like the kid you teach mom. And so now you say to the Justice Department, "No, it's not true." And the coalition, "No, it's not." So we're in. Ladies and gentlemen, such Members are wanted by every minister. I was a minister, too. But a little more critical, you'd expect. Unfortunately, she's not in this area. It is therefore not a matter of concrete concern. I just went with Janez Janša's specific case because we have access to the data through a lawyer. But it's not just that. It's a lot of other cases. When this file came to the Supreme Court, five more citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which I will then quote, will fall under this illegality and unconstitutionality [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] more from the bench. [[…]] I ask only those of you who will discuss as representatives of the parliamentary groups to face me and not to run away from the hall like you did at the last meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. On 17 March 2015, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Justice. As the Committee did not adopt the recommendation in the work of the proposal after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the home working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The Justice Committee is at its seventh session. 3. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a recommendation on procedures to eliminate the suspicion of illegality in the work of the courts in the conduct of judicial records and thus related respect for Articles 22 and 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which lay down the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of the right to judicial protection and subordinated provisions of the Law on the Courts and the Court of Justice, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jožet Tank. Anja Bah Žibert, who stressed the importance of constitutional provisions, in particular the equal protection of rights and the right to judicial protection, gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. She pointed out that there are two ways to deal with judicial records at the District Court in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court. The majority of the judicial records shall be conducted between 8 and 15 hours in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the regulations prescribed by law, and there shall be a parallel part of the business, which shall take place from 15 to 16 hours. All of this, according to the proposer, is supervised and carried out by the President of the Supreme Court. That it is a predetermined and selected system of dealing with certain judicial files, the case of Patria shows, which the representative of the applicant also postponed. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the content of the proposal should be assessed from the constitutional point of view of the National Assembly as a legislator, who also has a supervisory and electoral function. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the National Assembly is competent to accept the situation in particular areas in order to take measures under its jurisdiction. On the 1st point of the proposal, she said that the recommendation referred to the Institute of Action for Judges, which was governed by the Law on Courts. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice pointed out that the competent ministry had examined with all due care the reported infringements of the proposed recommendation, the Ministry of Justice had requested further clarification and received two replies to conclude that the allocation of cases before the Supreme Court was carried out in accordance with the second paragraph of the Law on Courts and in accordance with the rules on the allocation of cases referred to in the Sixth Chapter of the Rules of Procedure. The Secretary-General of the Supreme Court presented in detail how the procedure for the allocation of court files was carried out and rejected the applicant's findings that there were two different ways of assigning judges' files. He explained that the principle of a lawful judge is one of the fundamental elements of the constitutional right to justice, which is already laid down in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is further regulated by the Law on Courts and the Rules of Procedure. The procedure for assigning cases to judges shall be such that all consignments received by the court by post or directly to the depository shall be taken over by an authorised judicial authority. All during working hours. Then the court person in the register at the first page of the original printing press, the income stamp, completes the data, is signed and thus sent to the applicant of the competent judicial department for further work. However, in the case of a new case, the registrar shall first classify all cases which have arrived the previous day by alphabetical order the initial names or names of the parties and assign them to the judges, taking into account the alphabetical order of the initial names of the judges. He also rejected allegations of misconduct in the conduct of judicial proceedings at the Supreme Court, presented after days exactly how the cases were assigned in the register of criminal proceedings, and said that the whole procedure for assigning cases was reflected in the information system, where all cases were recorded, which enabled them to accurately reconstruct the allocation of cases at the time of 17. 6. 2014 up to and including 26. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the debate, the opposition Members assessed the explanations by the representative of the Supreme Court of Transfer and reiterated the fear that the entries in the Slovenian courts are guided by two systems. From 8 a.m. to 15 p.m., matters shall be assigned in accordance with the provisions on the legal judge and between 15 and 16 p.m. on the political line. They also pointed out that citizens are demanding changes – especially with regard to the inviolability of judges. The Coalition Members assessed the proposal as an unacceptable intervention in the judiciary with a view to political discrediting of the judiciary, as the applicants did not substantiate their statements with any evidence, but also a member who is a party to the proceedings under consideration. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to paragraphs 1 and 2. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he then voted on all parts of the Proposal for a Recommendation together and did not adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u104	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Mr Jožet Tank, made a proposal for a recommendation on procedures to address the suspicion of illegality at the work of the District Court, the District Court, the Supreme Court of Ljubljana and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The material stated that there was supposed to be a suspicion of a parallel allocation of cases or of dealing with judicial records to be carried out and supervised by the President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia, Mr Branko Masles, with the assistance of two elected judges of the Supreme Court and a certain registrar. This parallel system of dealing with judicial files is divided according to the data of the applicants into precision with the selected enquiries in the District Court in Ljubljana and the District Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. Through this parallel system, according to the proponents, the predetermined files are intended to be obtained on a political basis for the selected and designated judges who decide on these matters. As an example of such operations, the case of so-called Patrie is cited in the material, but the criminal case and the Commission's report on anti-corruption control of the property situation of representatives of parliamentary parties. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered the material and the recommendation at its 26th session, on 12 March 2015 and adopted the opinion that the recommendations were unfounded or that the allegations of the illegal conduct of the District, District and Higher Court in Ljubljana were unconstitutional. The Ministry of Justice has asked for a written report or an explanation on the findings that have appeared in the media on the issue of the allocation of cases before the Supreme Court. In its written response, the Supreme Court has very thoroughly and comprehensively described the way in which the two cases, which form the basis for the recommendations contained in the above-mentioned material, have been assigned, and it has rightly explained beyond that that the allocation and redistribution of the two cases described have taken place in accordance with the Law on Courts and Rules of the Court. On the basis of these explanations and the report of the Supreme Court, we consider that the findings are unfounded and therefore the recommendations are unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the proposal for recommendations concerning procedures to eliminate the suspicion of illegality in the work of the District Court in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in dealing with judicial records and related compliance with Articles 22 and 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which lay down the principle of equal protection of the rights and the principle of the right to judicial protection and subordinate provisions of the Law on Courts and the Court of Justice. These are suspected allegations of irregularities in the allocation of cases at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be pointed out that there is no indication of any illegal conduct in the Higher Court of Justice in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana and the District Court in Ljubljana, but only a flat-rate assessment of the applicant's irregularity in the above-mentioned courts. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia replied to the allegations of illegality in a written reply dated 23. 2. 2015 and clarification that the allocation of cases at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia took place in accordance with the second chapter of the Courts Act and the rules on the allocation of cases referred to in Chapter 6 of the Rules of Procedure. In the opinion of the SMC Group, there are no grounds for doubting such substantive and legal relevance of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, from which it is concluded that the allocation of cases took place in accordance with legislation. It is precisely because of the recommendation made in the SMC Group that we will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dearly beloved, especially colleagues and all those who accompany us, allow today when it is 25. March, I sincerely congratulate all mothers on their day, and I want this celebration to be every day of their lives. Well, let me get back to my position. Each country has as many legal states as people feel it. Minister Klemenčič's statement, which we can read differently, Slovenia has serious problems in the field of justice. However, since virtually nothing happens to improve this situation, our common problem is even greater. We are reminded of this by both civil society and the professional public. More and more criticism is also coming from employees within the judicial sphere and, last but not least, Slovenia has recently received warnings from the European Commission, which the responsible should have done. It also stated that access to a successful justice system is a fundamental right in the core of European democracies recognised in constitutional traditions common to all Member States. In view of the information that there is a suspicion of illegality in the courts or the Supreme Court in dealing with judicial records and thus in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law and the judiciary, we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the National Assembly should adopt a recommendation on procedures to address the suspicion of illegality in the work of the Supreme Court. With a recommendation, we wanted to achieve a completely logical measure that the Ministry of Justice required the Supreme Court to prepare a report on alleged infringements and that the matter should come to an end and, of course, appropriate action should be taken in the event of irregularities. That is why we are even more surprised by the decision of the Government and the coalition parties that you did not support on the Justice Committee of the proposed recommendation. With this you have achieved only one thing: doubts about the irregularities in the work of the Supreme Court are only strengthened. That there was something wrong with the assigning of the case files to the Supreme Court, Masleša also warned the Supreme Judge Borivoj Rozman before the time of the President of the Supreme Court. In his letter, he pointed out that the case had been assigned to him on the basis of an incorrect entry into the register and that the order of judges or the principle of a natural judge had not been taken into account in the allocation of the case. So, Your Honor, the Chief Justice has warned that there has been a violation of the Constitution, law and court order in the allocation of judicial records. This should already be sufficient for the responsible minister to take certain measures. But this is, of course, from Minister Klemenčič, who has repeatedly violated the laws in his work in his previous management function, in fact to expect non-hygienic. Why, in fact, is the issue of assigning court records going on? For the judicial file must be assigned according to the so - called principle of the natural judge so as not to be misused. In practice, this means that the courts are required to enter the files in the register, first by alphabetical order of the parties or the complainants and, secondly, by the annual schedule of judges, which is also drawn up in alphabetical order. The problem of assigning court records, pointed out by Judge Rozman, has a longer beard and larger scope, according to our well - known information. In the Supreme Court, the so-called parallel system of assigning judicial records is also supposed to work, which means illegal activity that allows the allocation of files, as envisioned by the Supreme Court's summit with Masleša at the head. More about this later in the debate. Your Honor! Today, together, we could have the opportunity to take a real step forward with the adoption of the proposed recommendation towards a more transparent functioning that would help to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in all three branches of government. Unfortunately, however, we will not vote on the proposed recommendation because the proposal recommended a coalition with SMC at the helm. Thus, in the field of the situation in the judiciary, we remain at European level, as the European Commission has recently found in its report. Slovenia, for example, has ranked 24th in the field of trust in the judiciary and is the fifth worst country after confidence in the judiciary. If everything in the field of the allocation of files were exactly what it should be, then what the next record of the government would be. Taking into account the nature of the evidence of irregularities in the allocation of cases or the operation of files and the importance of the rule of law in ensuring the right to judicial protection, the Ministry of Justice will examine the possibility of improving the rules on the allocation of cases or rules ensuring respect for the principle of a lawful judge. In short, words that merely confirm that the recommendation was worth supporting, and your obstacle was largely one alone — fear of conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u110	Mr. President-in-Office. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will read the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the Procedures for the Elimination of the Suspicion of Illegality in the Work of the District Court in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the course of dealing with judicial records and related respect for Articles 22 and 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which lay down the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of the right to judicial protection and subordinated provisions of the Law on the Courts and the Court of Justice. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides, in Article 23, for the right to judicial protection, which is also an element of everyone's right to be tried by a judge elected by the rules predetermined by law and by the Rules of Procedure. This is the so-called principle of a lawful judge. In accordance with the constitutional provision, this principle is specified in the Law on the Courts of Justice and the Rules of Procedure. Thus, the allocation of cases is to be made in accordance with objective pre-determined criteria. In the material that we are discussing today, the applicants estimate that in the District, District and Higher Court in Ljubljana and in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, there are two ways to deal with judicial records. They conclude that most court records arriving between 8 a.m. and 15 p.m. comply with the rules, while at the same time assessing that there is a parallel system for dealing with judicial files arriving after 15 p.m. The distribution of these files is intended to take place on a political basis, to manage and supervise this procedure by the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Masles. We are, of course, talking about a specific case against one of the co-signatory of the proposal for a recommendation that we are considering, the case of Patria. In the Desus Group, I repeat, in the Desus Group we stand for an effective and independent judiciary, and respectable and respected, we are not against any infringement being investigated and, where appropriate, properly sanctioned. However, we are also aware that Members, as representatives of the legislative branch of power, are limited, and we cannot deal with and take decisions that would affect the exclusive competence of other branches of government. With regard to a specific case, however, it seems unacceptable for us in the Desus Group to re-examine cases of alleged infringements and criticise the work of the judiciary on the basis of assessments, and of course it is not a coincidence that we are talking about a single case. During the material, we also received replies from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, on the basis of reports of irregularities in the allocation of cases, were requested by the Ministry of Justice. It follows from their replies that the allocation of cases takes place in accordance with the rules. They explained that the applicant accepts writing all the time and then is assigned to the judges, taking into account alphabetical order. The whole allocation process is also conducted in the information system. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that there is no reasonable reason not to believe the Supreme Court's allegations. However, we support the Ministry's announcement that, when amending legislation, it will consider improving the rules that ensure respect for the principle of a lawful judge. In the DeSUS Group, we will continue our efforts to improve the situation in our judiciary, and we are confident that the amendment of the legislation provided for in the Government's normative work programme for this year will also help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, for your word, Chairman. Proposals for a recommendation concerning procedures to eliminate the suspicion of illegality in the work of the District Court in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the conduct of judicial records and related compliance with Articles 22 and 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which lays down the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of the right to judicial protection and subordinate provisions of the Law on Courts and the Court of Justice, have highlighted in the works the exclusive allocation and redistribution of documents in those courts. But not any of them. But mostly those files that have to do with the Patricia case. And it is only a case that this case is linked to the president of the largest opposition political party, which is an untouchable or even superior citizen. This has already been decided. Of course, it is not a case; it is only a continuation of the political struggle, as has been mentioned many times. At today's 6th regular session, the political struggle continues at the very top of the judicial branch of government by politicising, this time, in narration, by assigning documents such as Patria. Of course, on the labour market, the representatives of the applicant argued that the principle of equal protection of rights and the principle of the right to judicial protection should be respected. Social Democrats have never opposed this. More. We believe and believe that they have and all have the right to prove our innocence in the courts and that everyone is allowed to use all legal means. So all stakeholders, I stress, all must and must respect these principles. The judgements and decisions of the courts should also be respected when, following a legal charge, a person has to report to the prison term. Your Honor! Today, too, at the 6th regular meeting of the National Assembly, we are discussing the continuation of the discreditation of the judiciary. We know that the stories will continue and that is why the case of Patria as well as the two charges brought against the Member of the largest opposition party. In these two cases, the National Assembly has already decided on immunity. You're going to ask me why the emphasis on the sixth. Because we can predict the continuation of attacks and pressure on the judiciary. Let me freshen up the debates in the National Assembly. At the 2nd regular session we talked about the judiciary, at the 4th regular session we talked about the prosecution, this time we are talking about the judiciary. If we continue to develop the story, it follows something like this: 8. - The D.A.'s office, 10. — Judgement, 12. - The D.A.'s office and so on. Until June, July 2016, when a new invitation to tender for the presidency of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia will have to be published, and a little later on, the office of the Attorney General of the State. Pursuant to the provisions of the Judicial Act, the Council of the Court of Justice shall publish in the Official Journal a notice of invitation to tender six months before the expiry of the office of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. A similar procedure shall also be carried out in the event of an invitation to tender for the Attorney General. This procedure is specified in the State Prosecutor's Office Act. In the light of all possible scenarios, we estimate that all these pressures are no longer just directed at the current leadership of the Supreme Court. We estimate that this is also in some way an influence and preparation for later political interference in the process of running for highest office in the judiciary and the prosecution. Why do we say that? Although we are only today in March 2015, it will soon be 2016, speculation will begin, but who might apply for the invitation and so on, until attempts to discredit individuals on a case-by-case basis and despite legal conditions in meeting the criteria for taking over and leading the highest function in the judiciary. With regard to the allegations, you may be able to tell us that the Social Democrats have a lush imagination, but this could be confirmed if we did not know all the past political actions of the SDS against Slovenian justice. Unfortunately, so far, the work of the proposers also shows exactly the opposite of today's points, and it attaches to our predictions. All these attacks against the President-in-Office of the Supreme Court have been carried on since 2010, since the nomination, have continued after appointment and have increased from the term of office and will certainly increase until the new call for proposals. And this is the truth that we are witnessing to her, and we are going to be hers. Your Honor! Social Democrats are not entirely satisfied with the work of the judiciary or with the results, which we are also following through the consideration of court work reports for each year, but we find that the Slovenian judiciary is comparable to other countries. We are good somewhere, but we are above average and unfortunately also below average. We wish that in all areas we would be at least good, in a golden environment, if not the very best. However, by constantly imposing the burden on the public that everything is wrong in the judiciary, the situation in the judiciary will certainly never improve, since, irrespective of the results achieved, the bad work of the judiciary will be made known to people as the world truth. We do not claim that there are times when it is justified, but many times it is unjustifiable. All these discussions, such as today, will certainly not contribute to the improvement of the situation. Why? Since today’s proposers and all previous ones on a similar subject and those who come, the attack on the judiciary and the prosecution generally build only one point on how to defend their boss indefinitely, they care little about other people. Social Democrats continue to advocate thesis, and we will continue to advocate that the judicial branch of power must work primarily on its own to gain respect and trust. And once again, the institutions of public functions in judicial proceedings will contribute to the reputation and trust of the judiciary by responding to the demands, by respecting the decisions of the courts and by failing to make statements which are able to detect the lack of respect for and ignorance of the decisions of the judiciary. We are also aware of the fact that the satisfaction of citizens and citizens will always be shared in the judgments handed down, especially in the face of those more media-response judgments and especially when the public does not know all the facts and circumstances and will only conclude on the correctness and irregularity of the judgments on the basis of media publications. Your Honor! When considering the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the Justice Committee, the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court, Mr Janko Marinko, gave a very precise explanation of the system for the allocation of judicial files and strongly rejected the proposalers' thesis on the political allocation of court files. Such a proposal for a recommendation to the Social Democrats is seen as an unacceptable intervention in the judiciary with the aim of political discrediting the judiciary, without any evidence. At the end of the day, let me repeat the thought that has already been said. We advocate the idea that it is unacceptable that, when politicians or privileged members of the elite are found in proceedings, the authority of the courts is compromised. Judges must be an independent and equal branch of authority, since they must protect rights and defend equality of parties in judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian justice is one of the biggest problems of our society. This is reflected in the extremely low level of citizens' confidence in the rule of law institutions. In a study designed for the Member States of the European Union, public confidence in Slovenian justice is the lowest among all countries. Even less than a quarter of Slovenian citizens are trusted in the institutions of the rule of law. The level of confidence of the professional public in the functioning of the courts, including lawyers, state lawyers, state prosecutors and others, is also worrying. So entities that are practically daily meeting the work of the courts know their work and can therefore be objectively evaluated. Only a third of the professional public is entrusted to the court. And it is this very low degree of trust that we think we should be very concerned about justice alone. I guess that's not the case. For the state of justice no one assumes responsibility, neither subjective nor objective. The European Commission's latest report, published recently, two weeks ago, on 9 March 2015, states in the introduction, "the successful justice system is the foundation of every democracy". For Slovenia, however, it is necessary to add a sentence: The establishment of a rule of law is a prerequisite for ensuring the functioning of the economy. And then add the consequences that will come if we fail to meet this precondition. Economic societies, not only abroad, will also begin to withdraw from our market and to seek a more favourable business environment. If an economic society has to wait a few years for the resolution of an economic dispute, and this is unfortunately a practice and not an exception, this means that it is simply not guaranteed judicial protection in our country. In a few years, one major unresolved or unsolvable economic dispute can mean insolvency of an undertaking and, in most cases, bankruptcy. Taking into account the business practice of smaller operators in our country, which in most cases are subcontractors of larger companies, the likelihood of such an outcome is even greater. That this means a consequent loss of already low number of jobs and a loss of revenue from the budget, perhaps there is no need to stress in particular. We Christian Democrats are convinced that in the judiciary, but most of all in the judiciary, fundamental and immediate reforms are needed. At the time of the adoption of the package of laws on the recent mini justice reform, we have warned the Minister in our position that cosmetic amendments to the legislation are absolutely not sufficient. In particular, we have noted the lack of responsibility and in particular the problem of non-implementation of the legislation adopted. More specifically, the fact that there is no or no consistent sanction for non-implementation of legislation. After this, Slovenia, the European Commission's previously cited report of 9 March 2015, has slightly improved its effectiveness. The 28th Member States of the European Union now take 15th place. In a year, Slovenia was able to reduce the average time taken to resolve economic and civil proceedings from 318 to 301 per day. This is still a significant extension of the average rescue time, especially given the fact that a number of procedures continue after 10 years and beyond. However, at least a minor positive movement is noticeable. However, the anxiety is a fall on the judiciary's independence scale, where Slovenia took 24th place and worsened its assessment compared to the previous period. We are also in an infamous 25th place in the field of quality of the judiciary. We now expect from the Justice Minister a thorough analysis of the situation for such a fall, as well as concrete solutions to improve the situation. The fact is, the Slovenian judiciary is not capable of self-reflection. Its own control mechanisms do not work. Additional measures will be needed. One option is to increase public control over the work of judges, by making public all the judgments and other judicial decisions issued and, in particular, by making public the performance of each individual judge. In Novi Slovenija – Christian Democrats we are convinced that in the Slovenian judiciary there are good judges and that an effective system should be built on these good judges. However, it will be necessary to exclude those who are unable to perform their functions within the expected framework, both in terms of quality and in terms of the expected extent of the work done. Finally, confidence in the rule of law can only be restored if the judiciary acts in accordance with its mission, that is by exercising fairness in decision-making in specific cases and by exceeding the so-called legal formalism – by deciding by letter of law, irrespective of the purpose of the regulation. This legal formalism in many cases constitutes a legal framework for protecting the illegal acts of members of social elites. Justice will have to be restored as a fundamental value on which the decisions of the judicial authorities will be based, so that decisions are not only legal but also legitimate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak, asked for the floor. .
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I have concluded my performance by asking those who, on behalf of the groups of Members, will discuss staying in the Chamber and facing each other. If a man has an argument, then there's no problem. Now, the Secretary of State has to be here because, according to the rules, Mrs Korenakova has escaped from me, as last month, the same is true for Mrs Porotat, who has already escaped for the second time. So, what's the problem?Oh, my God! Why are you running away?Oh, my God! You have arguments – stay and face them. But if you don't have – don't knock. Let's go in one order. Mr. Old. Unconcreteable readings. Really?Oh, my God! I've known for 35 years that you read well. What's that? Is that an unconcrehensive observation? Well, let's see. 9. 4. In 2013, it was addressed to Mr Masleša and the text reads: "After reviewing the file in the IUP 129/2013 case, the defendant Ivan Janez Janša against the accused party to the Anti-Corruption Commission", which is also against you, because you wrote that, "for interfering with human rights and freedom, I found that this file was assigned to me on the basis of the wrong entry in the register. Following the finding that the complaint and the incorrect entry were made, the file was reclassified" in another record, therefore, "without respect for the order of the judges who decide on the complaints or did not respect the principle of the natural judge. Since in the same case I have decided on a provisional order as a judge of the rapporteur and the file has been allocated to me in the past order of order, this is past the order of the judges who decide on the complaints, the circumstances which call into question my impartiality are given to me, therefore” and therefore, after that, and this article “I propose an expulsion. Supreme Judge Borivoy Rozman." Unconcrehensible?Oh, my God! What's that?Oh, my God! Here you go. If you don't have it, I'll give you a color photocopy. Now let's move on, look, Mr. Stare, you were a criminalist, not the one who was hunting, even the one who probably did a lot in the criminal police department. And I'm asking you something today: If some chicken thief told you, I didn't steal a chicken, you'd say, it's a satisfactory explanation, he didn't steal a chicken. Is that it? This is not a crime scene. We both know it's not. If someone else told you an alibi at a time when you were in a much higher criminal situation and made up a story because you were investigating him for murder, say, or something like that, and I would write you a whole story where there was another friend who brought in this fake alibi to confirm it, would you say, satisfactorily explain it? Would you like to go and investigate something? I believe you've done something else. I believe that's what you've been doing. Today, in the role of politics and the Secretary of State, you say, "The report of the Supreme Court has explained everything." What's the explanation? The report of the Supreme Court did not explain anything. The proof that this is my claim that it didn't explain anything is the following fact that you probably saw in the media. In fact, at a time when this report was being prepared and if this observation had fallen to assign files in the order of order, then some supervisory group would probably or might know who was already in the Supreme Court, have to check from the clerk down to the Supreme Court down to the lowest court, as it traveled. And when he came to the court run by Mr. Kovacnik – we both know him well, he used to be your boss – and he said – What? "At my place, they didn't check anything in my court." That's what he said. "They didn't check anything in my courtroom." So, how did they satisfactorily explain it? So I have two questions for you. Unconcreteable readings. Is Borivoj Rozman, Supreme Judge, an unconcrehensible person? I think the person is the judge-in-chief who wrote down that they gave him an illegal case. In an illegal way. And second. How can you say that the Supreme Court is right if you haven't checked anything? Even the media have reported that nothing has been checked in the Supreme Court, at least in the District Court of Pogačnik. Mrs. Root got away, all right. SMC is one way or another, and that's your thing, here I have no impact on this, if you have any arguments, you have an opportunity to book 90 minutes under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If we had an argument. But you've booked 20 minutes, of which this lady's five minutes has burned down, and now maybe someone else will say something and it's over because you're going to say it like this. Look what this Mrs. Root said. There's no evidence, there's a higher court, there's no county court, there's nothing you're reading to a higher and district court, she said. That's not true. Our request makes it clear that the higher court and the district court, of course, the scribes, are working on the order of the gentleman who is also on the committee, Mrs Muršičeva, to speak nonsense, but then I will answer that question with you. In short, we make it very clear to the Supreme Court of Ljubljana and the District Court that their clerks are not working by law, but by order of the chief clerk in the Supreme Court. So it's not true what your representative said. I hope you say something. There's no reason to doubt the Supreme Court. What about Borivo Rozman? Isn't he the Chief Justice? It's not like that. Is that a fog or something? He made it clear that this principle was being violated. He wrote that this principle was violated by a natural judge. He gave it to himself in writing, and you're saying there's no reason to doubt the matter. So, for you, this judge doesn't exist or anything, he might lose his job now. Perhaps Mr Maslesha will be pleased with something, as they call it. Probably. Let's move on. Mrs. Popotat. But she came back, didn't run away. Okay. Let me listen. We stand for an effective judiciary. Congratulations. Your predecessors in 2007, in the pre-election campaign, said that the cost of living was terrible and that Desus would certainly raise 300 euros immediately after the 2008 elections for each pensioner. Well done, congratulations! I filed the marriage, but Desus was against it. What will help you, then, if you stand up for an effective judiciary, if you do nothing, but if you plant flowers, as in 2008 and 2007, before the elections, 300 euros, after the elections against. That's the system. Let's move on. "The Messengers are limited." I agree, yes. I'm not limited. If anyone is limited, let them be, I don't. But as far as the limitations of Members are concerned, we are limited as much as we want and as much as you want. You must have meant, in this limitation of Members, that we should not interfere with the judicial branch of power. Yeah, we're not. We have proposed to the Justice Minister that the Supreme Court report on this matter. So what does this legislative branch of power intervene in court? Yeah, it's nothing to do with that. Come in. "Inadmissible intervention in justice." Yes, an unacceptable intervention in the judiciary, if we suggest to the Government, to request a report from the Supreme Court. But it's an illegal intervention? Then I don't understand any more, and I don't understand you who were a lawyer and a lawyer. You need to be a little more punctual. There's no reason. You're saying the Supreme Court wouldn't believe it. Yeah, bravo, come on! Or Borivo Rozman, if you've seen this, if you have a color photocopy, I'll give it to you. If you don't believe us, then this Patrio case, how did he go, then trust the judge who wrote it. Mrs Muršičeva, we understand each other very much on the committee, and you also lead it very well in my opinion, given that this work was done earlier by me, a few years ago. But it is much better to work with you there, even when you discuss when you read what others write to you. You don't write very well, Mrs. Mursich. Let's go in one order. JJ, Janez Janša, is a senior citizen. That was already decided. See if you, in principle, "I don't admit this court" because that's what someone else said in 1929. I don't know. I don't know why he'd be out-of-state. The Court decided and justified why the mandate should be returned. It has decided by this provisional order, the final variant follows, we know this, but very clearly they have also justified this. As the first point, they cited a violation of the law. Second of all, they were talking about the fact that he was the leader of the opposition. Yeah, it's normal. Isn't that normal? Of course it is. You want into that other system or something. There was no opposition in that system when they sat in here params, params, params, because params, params are now going after this voting device in the coalition because it's the same. [[…]] Discussing judicial discredits. Yeah, sorry, sorry. Excuse me. No one has ever told me, neither Mr Masleša nor Mrs Bettova, his deputy or vice-president, that we are talking about any discredits of the court. Never. She was so nice to me last night, it was like a kay. Yes, she was extremely kind. Where do you get the discreditation of the judiciary? Where? Let me base this on where you're talking about judicial discredits? I don't see it anywhere. If we draw attention to judicial errors, this is not a discreditation of justice. SDS actions to justice. Oh oh oh, what actions? What? Let me get this straight. But if you think something is going on outside the Rules of Procedure, then give your boss there, the President of the National Assembly, to say, "Don't put this on the agenda, it's either illegal or it's against the Rules of Procedure or something." I don't know what you mean by that, but there's no SDS to justice. Let's move on. "The Slovenian judiciary is comparable." I almost started laughing, but the Vice-President would probably warn me and be a bad or something like that, because Slovenian justice is not comparable to the EU, Slovenian justice is the successor to what we had before 1990. [[…]] And I'm going to base that, and I don't know if you read yesterday's letter from the well-deserved professor and honorary citizen of Ljub Bavcon in Dnevnik. Look, all I saw was him writing a letter and talking about the brother's investigation and talking about Webber. But I only saw the address and I understood what the content was, and I don't have to read it, because it's a product policy, a policy that claims to be an expert. In 1996, when we drafted the first law on police, this expert said, "You don't write anything in the police law about covert investigative measures." And I looked at him fat, and I said, "What did you mean?" And he says, "Nothing, you just listen, but let this proportion take into account the more difficult actions." Oh, my God! Oh, my God. And this gentleman yesterday clearly says that the police do not have access to parliament, but she did have him at Jelinčič, and he was not disturbed, so he has no entry into parliament. And he doesn't mention any articles, because he doesn't. The police have access to parliament, but if we adopt another law, there may also be some restrictions. And he's talking about how the Secretary of Defense can order these informants to work the Telekom case. Well done, without quoting any article. Look, it's Slovenian justice and he's the father of Slovenian justice. He's kind of a professor, I don't know, probably all of you who did law school, I didn't. Probably. But look at the "lupa" and speak nonsense, and you talk about the fact that Slovenian justice is comparable to Europe. Then tell me why the Germans pay 42 euros, each German pays 42 euros a year to the judge, and why every Slovenian pays 86 euros. Tell me why German economists have been waiting three months for a solution, and we've been waiting three years. Tell me about it. Then tell me, why do we have 46 judges per 100,000 inhabitants and another 20? Slovenia's goal, they say by 2020, is to have 42 justice ministers. No way, the goal must be to be the average of Europe. Not to mention where we are based on trust in justice and everything else. So, this will not hold that the Slovenian judiciary is comparable to Europe. Yeah, you said there we've been attacking justice since 2010. No, no, no, this is where Janez Janša was sitting in 1999 when a judge from Kopra, Mr Masles, ran for the Supreme Court. And for the first time, it didn't go through, and for the second time, it went through. And now I'm going to remind you of your predecessor, who sat there one of the two seats behind you, Mrs. Bebler. You're talking about how we're preparing for some kind of discredit, as well as those who are just going to run for Supreme Court. Shall I tell you how it was in 2010? In 2010, Mr Šorli applied, who speaks three foreign languages and has several sheets, professional, scientific and other articles in the COBISS series. But he wasn't right. Well, Mr. Maslesha has nothing but a "downstairs" language. Now let's go in order. Mr. Shrolli wasn't right. Do you know who laid out the criteria that he wasn't suitable? Mrs. Beblereva has set the criteria on behalf of your Group of Members. You've got nothing to do with this, I know, but you're sitting in a party that also belonged to Mrs. Bebler. And she said, "Mr. Schorley," watch out, but you were then the leading party, you were then the leader of the government, she said, "we will never support Mr. Schorley, ever since Mr. Shorley sat in a Senate in 1996 that pardoned Paul Rupar." It is not clear how Mr Šorli voted. He could have voted in favour of Rupar's conviction, I don't know because it's secret, so I don't have that information, but because he was sitting in the Senate that acquitted Rupar, he can't become President of the Supreme Court. You see, that's a first-class discredit. First-class discredit. After that, your head of the delegation put it in "shraufsktok", to be called in Styria, I don't know what it's called in Slovenian, but I know this term, the adjective, and he nailed it, and then she didn't talk about it anymore, and she went out when I mentioned it. Now, I don't want you to go out, but look, it was a discredit, it was a problem, problem number one, because she stuck, who could and who couldn't. So, she basically said if you were a member of the Senate that acquitted someone from the opposition, read the SDS, maybe someone else, you can't become President of the Supreme Court. That's the criteria. However, he became the President of the Supreme Court, someone who said JLA would beat Slovenia, and who participated in sightseeing murder sites – murders, I claim in hard form, and he has not yet sued me, I have been saying that for five years – and he has verified homicides as an event. Mr. Old knows exactly what it is. Murder is murder, murder is not an event. But he made it out of this event. But we do know that a report on the event is then written. You see, this one was suitable – he threw the gun on the table and said how – yes, yes, in Koper there – he would throw the gun on the table and tell how JLA would carpet Slovenia. See, that's a good one! Look, if these aren't the first-class discredits of former candidate Shorley, then I don't know what discreditation is. And it's hard to talk now about how things are going to go forward. I believe that the coalition, when we vote on the new president or the old ones, will probably apply, because this one is fine, serves you well. A horse that serves well, but you don't change. Or what do farmers say? You'll probably confirm it that way again. Let's move on. "Mr. Janko Marinko has explained precisely." Yeah, that's good. Look, Mr Janko Marinko, who is the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court, has not explained exactly what I am about to say is that she is the writer I am talking about, and I will not name her by name and surname for the reason that she is a servant who does good service to Mr Maslesha, but good, and for that she receives a gift from Mrs Tratnik, and well, let us leave her to be recruited. He brought her in from the lowest court, so that today she's taking illegality to the Supreme Court in the name of leadership. He brought her. But, Mr. Old, you'll remember how the police go, you start on the road, dusty or whatever, and you go up, because we both know, we've put both of them through, because even with these officials, this is about the same thing. And it is probably normal for the chief recorder in the Supreme Court of a particular area to become someone from there and not someone who is in the lowest court, unless it is socially appropriate. Well, that lady was. But he didn't tell you one more thing this Mr. Marinko is looking for another writer to sit next to this right now. And I'm sure he'll find the right one. See, that's not what he said. Yeah, you're still talking about unjustifiable assaults on the judiciary. Tell me a case. I don't know what that is. Tell me a case. And I'm going to respond to what you said the last time, but I couldn't tell you in one sentence just, the last time we talked about the trial, you said it was right for the defendants to go to the courts, not to excite. You meant Janez Jansho. I must, of course, explain to you that there is a court case in which the accused is obliged to be present when evidence against him is made and otherwise he does not have to sit there. Well, that's what he's been up to. But he wasn't sitting there when there was no evidence against him, because there wasn't any, and then he sat there a little bit. In short, so much for my first response to these matters, and especially I expect Mrs Porotatova, Mrs Muršičeva, to be the one who said that I directly challenged them. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you. I give my word to the government's representative. They were in position, so there's no replica. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Dark Staret, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gorenak, answer the first question. The evidence on the unconcreteability of the readings in the material, which is the basis for the recommendations, is, in fact, only partially accurate. I believe it's not misleading, but that you haven't either listened to my performance thoroughly enough or read the government's ugly opinions. The last paragraph makes it very clear that the unconcreteability of the applicant's observations refers to the county, district and higher courts in Ljubljana. And these three courts are mentioned in writing only in connection with the claim that a parallel system of political award has been established under the leadership of Mr Masles, President of the Supreme Court. However, as regards the document or document which you have shown or from the judge in question, it refers to the Supreme Court case and has also been reported in this regard, and it is stated in the material that the Ministry of Justice, not only because of the recommendations or this material, has already previously called on the Supreme Court, on the basis of media reports on the apparent irregularities in the allocation and allocation of cases at the Supreme Court, to explain or report on the merits of these reports in writing. I think there is no doubt that I will not repeat myself that the Supreme Court, in two responses to our belief, is beyond reasonable doubt, here I also used a word relationship, for our belief 'convincing an explanation', so that the evidence is unfounded and has no basis in reality. This is the answer to the first question on specificity or unconcreteability. In short, you have only taken half the information to the starting point and now the public, who probably do not have the opportunity and the opportunity to read the material and listen to all the performances, either on the committee and today at the full plenary session, can then create the impression that your statement or question is on the spot. It's not because it doesn't have a basis in actual condition. As for the concreteness or justification of the readings, as you said, we both have a professional career where we may have gained such experience. And there is no doubt that in law, if we are talking about evidentiary standards, the reasons for doubting reasonable reasons and reasonable doubt, we are talking about the degree of probability that something is true or is not true, there must be a quality of data or the existence of a fact of such a nature that, in its own content and quality, it justifies the reason for suspicion that something has happened or that it has not happened. Because otherwise, we are in a position that is perfectly clear in law to prove the existence of something that does not exist. And given the material and the reference and the flat-rate statements, I believe that every statement in this regard is completely unfounded. The fact is that the Supreme Court, or the representative of the Supreme Court, has also made a very thorough and comprehensive description of the award and redistribution procedure, and there is no reason or information to justify the seriousness or reasonableness of the doubt that this is not the case. However, we are talking about the third branch of power, the independent branch of government, and just one opinion or a press article, I find it inappropriate and inappropriate to question the reality of the statements, the official statements made by the representatives of the Supreme Court. Given that this material is very clear, and also in your implementation today, and obviously, because, for my understanding, it refers to the evidence of conduct which, in my opinion, is a matter of official persons, the officers of the Supreme Court, who, if this is true to what you are saying, are not, there are no specific data, but this means the exercise of signs of an official crime of abuse of position and authority. And given that you have challenged me, I will allow myself to have a common past experience in the same service, i.e. the police, who is one of the important auxiliary bodies in the predictive process, why you do not file an accusation and justify it with what you know, which is not convincing here, and then, in your belief, the matter could be justified. In short, the unconcretionality was related to the findings relating to the District, District and Higher Court in Ljubljana. As to the basis for the findings in the Supreme Court, however, we responded and received a report that we have no doubt about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor, once again. I think that in our position, the Christian Democrats have clearly highlighted the problems and problems of the Slovenian judiciary and only the situation in Slovenian justice. However, it is obvious that there is a need to repeat the matter several times in the National Assembly, so I will repeat and also point out the facts of what is wrong with this justice, which some of us are defending, how is right, and although, I will say, the largest parliamentary party has stated in its pre-election programme that the rule of law must be established. The fact is, the Slovenian judiciary is not capable of self-reflection. Do you know how long we've been listening to this? Since 2011 and 2012, the Minister of State has found that the Slovenian judiciary has not been able to self-reflect itself, but that its own mechanism of control of the operation does not work to require additional measures. We are already in 2015, and almost half this year these measures are still not from anywhere. And you know what? We are confident that the situation in the judiciary will be settled when greater public scrutiny of the work of the judge is made public, by the publication of all judgments issued and other court decisions, and in particular by the public publication of the perpetuity of each individual judge. Members of Parliament had the opportunity at the beginning of the judicial reform, which was also mentioned by current Minister Klemenčič, to discuss with the Minister in the parliamentary groups. I can say, and I hope he's agreed with our position. Therefore, it seems to me that almost all judgments handed down on behalf of the people should also be made public. Let this be published on the Court’s websites or on notice boards. These judgments are on behalf of the people. Why does the people not have a chance to look into these judgments? This would be some sort of supervisor, and I'm sure the operation would quickly crystallize, clean up, and eventually some of the masks would fall. It would show how much and what the products of individual judges are. This will be the moment of truth. The moment we can do this. The fact is that the current system is as bad as it is for those judges who are good because they are as rewarded as those judges who are bad. That's not right. That's not fair. This system isn't right and it's designed for bad judges. The problem is in particular the quality of the decisions and, last but not least, the understanding of those decisions, the understanding of the language. Here I would point out the words of the Minister of Two Governments, both our governments in 2012, as well as later governments, the government of Alenka Bratušek, where in the magazine Lawyer 69, under the title, I mean, an important title: The judiciary does not act as it should. I stress, we're talking about a minister, a minister of two governments. The Minister had the desire to establish external control of the courts, some judicial inspection and supervision of the administration of the courts and the administration of the courts from above. Unfortunately, it was probably not the most successful, although some of the amendments or legislative changes were in place, but did not come to life and indicate that the problems were still the same. I quote: "We have all been honest for too long, but a little naively hoped that college supervision or self-control would be successful. It has not only proved in the legal capacity that we like to sweep things under the carpet in Slovenia, because we do not want to resent each other." Those are the words of the minister of the two governments, I would say that the obvious would have fallen if it were our government's minister, but it's the minister of the two governments. Of course, it is necessary to put in place external controls, one of the supervisors, to see who and what he is doing, how much he is doing. Only then will we be able to upgrade the matter. It is also necessary to establish, I don't know, requirements for judicial review, and a judicial inspection could be carried out on a regular and systematic basis. As I was informed by the Minister, they don't have a judicial inspector, because inside they protect themselves so that no one has applied for a job. Significantly, I don't know if you've all read it, so I'm going to read it out loud, quote what he said in one part of the interview, Mr. Plitschanič, Minister of Two Governments, Left and Right: "In the government of Bratuška, which had a different political orientation, my space narrowed down, so I had to narrow down the idea of judicial inspection strongly." Does that mean, in which government did the Minister's manoeuvres fall? I fear that Minister Klemenčič also has limited room for manoeuvre in this government and that you will not let him breathe. So justice needs to be changed. I hope that they are also aware of this in the Ministry and that they will take a fundamental approach to solving this. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing here everything about justice, what is wrong, what is wrong, what is right. I will limit myself to what is the subject of the debate, namely the proposal by the SDS Group to adopt certain decisions, because we have not supported it on the Committee on Justice and I do not intend to support it here either, but I am going to say why not. I don't mean to support him. Why not? Because it is irrelevant and indicates, as the representative of the Supreme Court has already found, that the applicant does not know or understand the Law on Courts and Rules of Court. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, if I may say so, then you will comment. And it builds the thesis that everything would be wrong in the process of assigning court records, based on two, three cases mentioned, numbers there. Why won't I support this proposal? Because, for the first time, this proposal has been opposed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, when it suits you, is highly appreciated and respected, and you call on everyone else to respect its opinion here, but now it doesn't matter. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice has explained that there are indications as to what, according to the Law on Courts where the Ministry of Justice may require supervision, and this is called the District Court in Ljubljana, the District Court in Ljubljana and the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, that the evidence in the proposal is flat and insufficiently accurate, so that there is no need to order any control in these three courts on the basis of these readings. This is also further explained by the Ministry's representative. Thirdly, as regards the competence to determine the supervision of the work of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, of course – and so it has been explained in the report of the Ministry of Justice – the Ministry of Justice does not have the authority to request supervision of the judicial administration, but under this law it may require that the Supreme Court submit a report on the allocation of cases. And here the Ministry of Justice has said that the Supreme Court has provided sufficiently clear explanations as to how the files are assigned and how they have been allocated in specific cases. The report of the Supreme Court, which we have received from the Committee on Justice, explains how the cases have been assigned and, moreover, Mr Janko Marinko has made it clear on the Committee itself that you do not understand or are deliberately misinterpreting the rules of the judiciary. So, as for what you specifically said about this Supreme Judge Boris Rozman, that he does not exist, and that this is concrete proof that something is supposed to be wrong. The representative of the Supreme Court said that there was no order here that the file was reclassified. He's not here. Yeah. In short, it's settled according to the rules of the court. It is not unusual for a judge to demand that a court order be followed if something is wrong and that he requires his or her ruling or anything. And here, that he would now point out something and that because of one of these requirements that has been complied with, something generally wrong, it is baseless, groundless and what to tell you, that is what the representative of the Supreme Court said. Therefore, it is not possible, on the basis of certain flat-rate indications and indications which are not substantiated, for which it has been demonstrated that they are not justified, to order the supervision of the courts of the first three stages and to request reports or even controls, because it was also illegal, over the Supreme Court, when someone recalls that something might be wrong. We cannot therefore accept, confirm, vote in favour of such a recommendation. If we claim that there is some irregularity, that there is a suspicion of irregularities, then we must give some evidence for this claim that this irregularity exists. Since the representative of the Supreme Court proved the contrary and explained the contrary, there is no reason to vote in favour of this recommendation. But I'm gonna do it again. If anyone thinks that there is a reasonable suspicion that there has been an abuse of the official position in a particular case, let him file it, we even have to file it as an official person, a criminal complaint, including Members, if we think there is a criminal offence. Yeah. In short, me and the SMC Group alone will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I'm sorry – we're not voting tonight. Aren't you going to back it up? Aren't you going to back it up?Oh, my God! There is no vote at the end of this point because you have already cancelled it. Second, let's do it in order. You know, very much how to tell you, because I have to be polite because you're a woman and a judge, and I don't know, there's a lot of reasons for my courtesy. So I'm going to say, look, all you're saying, Mrs. Murgel, is what I'm going to say to you, infected and uncreditable. Yes, of course, it's perfectly normal for you to defend the judiciary if you're a judge. And you will go back tomorrow, of course, and you will judge independently, because that is so clear that you will be independent. Isn't it? You will, but you won't. Nonsense! You can't be independent if you're a politician. And we're going in order, the content of your affairs yet. I'm not going to back it up, the conclusion is no longer because you've already cancelled it. The PSC didn't support it, the Legal and Legislative Service didn't support our decision. I don't have any problems with law enforcement. In fact, our original decision was "to propose to the Ministry of Justice that it be overtaken", and the Legal and Legal Service warned and said, "The supervision can be carried out at the first, second, third stage, not in the Supreme Court. That is why we have redrafted our decision with the amendment, namely "to carry out control at the first, second and third stages", and the second "to request a report at the Supreme Court". But if I were to sit there, we'd be discussing the law here today. Yes, the Law on Courts, which would allow the Ministry of Justice to exercise such supervision in the Supreme Court. Don't even think about it. Twice, you said, you don't understand. Tell me what I don't understand. Now that I call you directly, you have the right to a replica and explain to me what I don't understand. One more thing, you're saying that this file, this case with Boris Rozman, was legally resolved because the file was predetermined. Of course he was, of course he was, but until then it was a violation of articles 22 and 23 of the Constitution, to which the judge warned because he said I had been appointed judge in this case past the Law on Courts. And until then, it was a violation of the Constitution. Not until after the predestination. But by then it was possible, so don't talk like that. You speak, you see exactly where you judge, to justice. If I just listened to you and didn't know where you were at work, I'd know where you were. Justice. You speak, here, like Mr Fisher, he says "in the matter of Skrlec the matter has been restored to its original state," he wrote. Yeah, what? The court ruled that he abused power. And he says, we've returned to the original state and no more legal consequences. Yeah, great. You killed one, and then I don't know what you said. It is not possible to return to the original condition. So this isn't going as well as you're telling me here. And Mr. Marinko explained why you believe him and not me?Oh, my God! Why do you believe Marinek and not me? Because Marinko is your future boss. Judging by the branch of power, the ex-boss and the future boss, and I don't. And that's why you believe him and not me. That's it. Mr Stare, unconcrehensible evidence, this also applies to you, Mrs Murgel, a district court, a higher and a district court. But here we need to know something, here we need to know something, I even think the Presidents of these courts don't know about it. I think they don't know about this, and Mr Pogačnik has already made such an impression in one of his statements in the media that they don't know it and live in good faith that everything is fine with them. The problem is not the presidents of these three courts, the problem is either the clerks or the clerks, I don't know if there's any other man in there or not, but the problem is basically the clerks who hold the file on the table, look at the clock and say, and now carry it. And the courier takes it away. And this thing can go completely past the presidents you judge, and the county and district and higher. Yes, you can. I don't know. But you could figure that out with control that you don't want to do. You don't want him. You turned him down. You said you went on your own. No, you went one day after I had a press conference for this material that we're talking about today, and even if you consider it to be self-initiative control, it's fine with me. Okay. But you didn't find anything. I don't know what you found out. Let's say, as an example, I can tell you that your minister spoke here for the last time about your supervision of the prosecution, the Skrlec case, and he said, "Our findings are similar to those of the administrative court." It is said that they abused power, Shkrlec and former Minister Zalar, that you have found it similar. I believe it would be difficult for us to find out something else, because then your findings should be against what the court has said, and you probably won't. I believe that to the Minister. But yesterday, Mr Fisher said, "The Ministry of Justice in the case in question has found no irregularities. Neither did the inspection find any irregularities." Of course not. At the time of the second appointment, however, forward. At the time of Mr Šrklec's first appointment, however, it was an illegal appointment and abuse of power by these two gentlemen! You know he's cheating. He's completely deceiving. And so do you here – Marinko described it well. Why do you believe in Marinka? He's the daddy of these things over there. He's the daddy of these things over there. He's humanizing. At this point, she's recruiting a new clerk, because one of them said she quit, but it's gonna be a lift. Believe me. I'll file a complaint against Maslesha, you said. Are you kidding? I don't know if you're kidding or what you're thinking? See, when the media announced and when I suggested to the media that Mr Fisher could be criminally responsible for this case, which he had then because he abused the authority and so on in the opinion of the administrative court, Mr Fischer, of course, sent a fine to the media, warning me preventively that this would certainly be the fault of the indictment. And now you think, we, me, whoever, write down some kind of criminal complaint and file it. Who? Fisher? Or his subordinate prosecutor? Then they'll get investigative judges whose boss is supposed to be so come on! [[…]] Come on! Come on. How many times have you had to blow on the Director General, I'm curious. Probably never. Well, you probably haven't met him as a cop, but we know what that would look like. So it's not real. So it is completely not realistic in the Slovenian judiciary to file any complaint against Mr Masleša. Yeah, how about if you see that Mr. Fisher is there protecting him and vice versa. Mr Fisher, when he was in the KPK procedure, which is probably what you were doing and you realized that I don't know what was already wrong with that appointment of Mr Skrlec, but Maslesha protected him when he kept the file up there in his drawer for a year and a half. Well, under such conditions, criminal charges are not possible, and it's not the time. But he'll come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you. The replica was requested by Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u126	Dear Mr Gorenak, what I have done and what I will do is laid down in the Law on Judicial Service. My function is now at rest, and what I'm going to do then, we'll see. But according to you, you can tell what you've been doing so far. You can figure that out, too. It can be seen that you have been a Member for a very long time and that you can afford to mutilate everything because you have immunity. Yeah, you're saying I'm not impartial and I don't know what, but well, that's just your style and your responsibility, which you're not going to take, because you have the immunity of a Member. And there is something else that your speech shows that you do not understand – and even in the SDS proposal it is obvious – that you do not understand why the real thing is here. It's not like there's no breach at all. Now that there has been one violation that has been resolved, that is to say, if there are violations to be resolved, and even if one of the violations that you claim has been and has been resolved, that does not mean that there is an immediate need for emergency control and I do not know what else. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u128	Unfortunately, I will use the rules of procedure and act as a proposalr. I haven't been a Member in a long time. I've been a Member for four years. By the way, let's deal with this. And second of all, as far as parliamentary immunity is concerned, we know what it looks like. She's not here. I have not remembered since 2004 that any parliamentary immunity would be granted to anyone, so you're suing me if you think you're right, and I have no problem with that. As far as responsibility is concerned for the violations you're talking about being resolved. You're the masters in the courtroom, the masters, one judge screws up the case, and then the other one fixes it. But look, when a doctor gets the case up and the patient goes to another world, that's how a doctor gets in front of the judges. But the judge, who's got a case going on, you say he's on a higher level to get it over with, and it's legally all right. But Mrs. Murgel's responsibility is a disaster. There's no responsibility in justice. And that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you. Now he's got the word "magic." Branko Grims, get Mrs. Ksenija Root Kramar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. First of all, two words about immunity, when there's such a good debate about it. If a former judge is so wrong that he thinks that parliamentary immunity is something that protects you for the words spoken here, then we can ask ourselves how the real ignorant person is wrong. In the sense of immunity, as in the Slovenian Constitution – I was once first signed under a proposal to stop it, and I would give it right away if someone signed it – it is so stupidly written that it protects you for criminal acts and does not protect you for what is involved in the performance of your function. Which means total stupidity. However, they have, you will not believe, the full immunity of some others in Slovenia, and these are judges, judges and judges. Someone must have had a little bit of a role in his mind when he first spoke up. For the judges are fully protected from any responsibility for all that is in connection with their work, for that which they say, for that which they write. And that's where the immunity is perfect. Interesting. By the way, if your judge writes that you're, I don't know, a Nazi or something like that in a judgment, in Austria, you'd be filing a great compensation suit that's bigger than basic, but that could happen to no one. By the way, and it's already happened if someone doesn't know. Some of the ladies who used to explain so vehemently how everything is fine with us in the judiciary, now they are not among us, I suppose they are celebrating their mother's day outside, so that I congratulate all the women of the fine sex for their mother's day, for their holiday. I can still do that this year. If a new, crazy marriage is established, then another time I don't know, the holiday of person 2, I don't know what it'll be called, which will be an unknown sex and so on. So those who have adopted this law should ask themselves a little bit of logic, because we happen to be in the National Assembly, we should ask ourselves if they know that the General Declaration on Human Rights has been ratified in Slovenia, which specifies exactly what family is — the community of men and women.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u131	We can stick to the darkness, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u132	What we're going to say more about tomorrow, but when we're talking about human rights, which is what we're talking about today, it's just like interesting today, it's still possible and tomorrow to sign for a referendum initiative, and I would suggest that everyone do it as quickly as possible to get at least one stupidity and shame out of this world.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u133	Please, if we stick to the subject that we're dealing with. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u134	Yes, yes, ma'am, we'll get to you, too. [[…]] Now that we are talking about human rights, one of the fundamental human rights which is given precisely by that declaration, which is why I have deliberately mentioned it, is also the right to a neutral, independent, fair trial. And all the procedures, including what we're talking about today, are designed to do just that. As Churchill said, "The procedure is the mother of democracy." And if something is not respected, then, of course, put everything under question. But all those who spoke about it should already know, especially those who have judicial knowledge, and most of those who have discussed it today, you do. So when it comes to these things, we come to the area of human rights, to one of the fundamental rights, to the area of an independent fair trial. And when you all say yes, you pulled something out of the paper again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what Europe has just warned you again, clearly and unequivocally, that we have gone backwards according to the criterion of the independence of Slovenian justice, exactly what we are talking about today. None of us made that up here. You have been warned by the European Union, which, believe me, talks about such things in public only when the water is running to the throat and up to the sky. And then ask yourself what's wrong. Now again, it points to those we warn about, but not to what is wrong and rightly pointed out to us by the European Union, which warns us that this is a fundamental development issue and that we have to deal with it, otherwise we will not come anywhere else. Without independent, effective judicial protection, there is no development of a modern state. And we're there when we get to the developmental issues. And why is it opening up ideological themes, like the one I mentioned earlier, and imposing certain ideological laws? Because it is not about development issues, because there is a breakdown of your governments, from Pahor through Mrs. Alenka Bratušek to the present perfect. If there's anything perfect, it's just your failure in the field of economic development, that's all. And one of the elements of this collapse is that in justice things are not improving, but that the independence of justice is reversed, as the European Union warns us. And then we're witnessing procedures that can't surprise us. For example, when it comes to their former boss, the Association of Journalists of Slovenia simply writes that his conduct was rejected as a hate speech. However, the Slovenian judiciary has not been able to find out about the charges in the proceedings in a few years, although Europe for hate speech, you will not believe, it has exactly two specific criteria. Not a single statement, as we often misinterpret it, but the elements of defiance are graphic, descriptive, verbal, whatever and justification why it should be justified or even necessary. These are elements of the hate speech in the sense that the European Union knows, as it knows modern European justice. And if we don't recognize it, ladies and gentlemen, then let's ask ourselves what's wrong. What is wrong with justice, what is wrong with procedures, and what is wrong with all those responsible? Because there's obviously something wrong, and you can deny it a thousand times. Fortunately, we are in the European Union and fortunately, on the other hand, they can very clearly and loudly warn when they know that things are going in the wrong direction. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today this debate is not only justified, it is also necessary. And if you, in the coalition, were to do your job as you should, the government would prepare a debate on this, and you would be leading it today. Since you didn't, we did this our duty after the stop in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! However, I would point out once again what I have already expressed in the position of the Group and what was also expressed in the debate on the Committee itself, explained and would only somehow add this opinion once again and perhaps repeated it again at this point, because all these observations, which were expressed on the Justice Committee itself and also those which we are listening to here today, are, according to the Supreme Court's explanation, as well as the Ministry's explanation, in fact, unfounded. And from my personal point of view, given that there is no reason not to explain this explanation that we have all received and that we have all read it, which has been given to the Supreme Court regarding the allocation and redistribution of individual files, we have not believed. So I think that here, however, it is necessary to express a certain respect for the judiciary, for the independence of this branch and I simply have to insist that I do not see any reason why this explanation, which was given, was given by the Ministry and given by the Supreme Court, should be believed. So I think that today this kind of debate is legitimate, but totally inappropriate, even unjustifiably, given the evidence that they were, especially in the light of the explanations that have been given. So you'd like to join the theme. Of course, each of us, and some of the duties of others, have every right if they feel that there has been any abuse of position, to announce it or have the opportunity to file an appeal if they feel that such suspicion is justified. So I think there's a possibility. In no way could I assert that we in any way doubt the explanation given by the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you came back because you ran away from me before, so we need to clear up. Why should we believe the Supreme Court? You say you believe the Supreme Court. At the time of your absence, I read a letter from Chief Justice Borivo Rozman. He said you assigned me this file and this one in an illegal way, past the order. That's not legal. The Constitution and the law are broken. He said that. Mr. Marinko, he told you, everything is fine, everything runs by law and so on because he is the father of this system. By recruiting the lady in charge of this, and with that lady who is about to do so, at this moment, he is scrambling. And you believe him. You know you seem pretty naive to me. You believe him. And you're saying, there's something else you're saying, I don't know exactly what you said when I didn't understand you, anyone who thinks something's wrong can, huh? [[…]] Complaints? Or something like that. I don't know what you said. Look, now I can't quote them because I'm breaking the law with names and names. Between 18 and 20. 6. Five files arrived at the Supreme Court, among them there was no Patria, which came afterwards, upon order, but the ready letter disappeared, it was no longer there. He blinked the file, just like some MPs. Now, you tell me, here are the citizens whose surnames – I cannot quote them – begin with K, L, M and T. All these citizens were violated the right to a natural judge because they ordered, send Patrio's file, and this fell before them. And this is how Mrs. Zobsa tried Mr. K, and Mrs. Tratnik should have done it. Gentlemen in L were judged by Vesna Žalik, but Barbara Zobst should have. The gentlemen at M were tried by Judge Damjanović, and should be judged by Ozbolt and so on and so on. All these citizens were violated the right to a natural judge. Do you think these citizens know anything about this today? They have no idea. How do they know?Oh, my God! How do they know about this?Oh, my God! And you believe Mr. Marinek. Yeah, but it's not as naive with me as it is with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you. The word has Mr Jernej Vrtovec to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u140	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the proposaler! It is truly surprising to hear somehow the talk of those who say, somehow understanding you in this tone, that the judiciary in Slovenia is not a problem. But you know, every time we get such a report from the European Commission, from the European Union, let's say a report on the effectiveness of the judiciary, on the independence of the judiciary, on the quality of the judiciary, I'm ashamed that we're going back in all these indicators. And today, talking about our justice system being practically nothing wrong raises another question, namely, whether we live in the same country. The justice system in a country where economists point out that this system is not good, that they cannot thus get into a country of foreign investors because all procedures are too slow to attract, is worrying. I will not touch on certain concrete things, because this is not the purpose of my debate, but above all I want to hear from you the awareness that something needs to be changed. And let me quote one famous Slovenian lawyer who, in my opinion, deserves a lot, but you know what he said: "I don't understand lawyers who go into politics. I don't understand them." That's why I don't understand anyone in this room sitting here. I know why this lawyer said that, but I really don't understand it, because then to argue that we live in a country where justice is all right is really alarming. Let me remind you of 2012, November month, top of the economy, the first requirement of Slovenian economists. What was she like? Let's get our justices in order. And they listed: payment non-discipline, bankruptcy procedures, prosecution of economic crime, economic disputes. This is a key problem in Slovenia. For the fact that we have unregulated justice, respected Mr Secretary of State, also discourages potential investors. Who's going to invest in this country where bankruptcy proceedings take place for more than 10 years? For more than 10 years, bankruptcy proceedings are carried out! Tell me a foreign investor who will invest in a country where for burning things, if you have looked at Monday or Tuesday Checked where for smoking matters – milestones one metre up, down – takes the procedure 16 years. And today we hope to say in this Chamber that this is an effective justice system. No, no, ladies and gentlemen, this is an alarming state of our justice! And I want only one thing from you, well-intentioned, knowing that we can make a difference in society, only consciousness, but not poison head to head in the sand and say, everything's fine, everything's fine. But when we get a report from the European Commission on the table, I am literally ashamed. I hope you do, too. And I fear the following reports on the quality of the judiciary, where we are now in the 25th place. In 25th place. Independence of the judiciary in 24th place in the European Union. Come on, let's focus, let's focus and say, let's go into one really thorough reform of our judicial system. If this reform, which you will propose, is not a reform like that of a mini reformer with some spouses, but indeed a reform, we will also support it in New Slovenia. And I agree with the proponents, I fully agree with them when they talk about justice, about the allocation of court records, because we know specific cases that are also media exposed, and it is right that we are talking about this. The National Assembly had little to say about it, and that also brought us into such an alarming state. And the judges aren't some superhuman, we have to be aware of that, they're not superhumans. It is right that injustices that have occurred in the past and that are still happening today should be warned, for, as the economists have said, as the European Commission has said, this is one of the cancers of our democracy. In doing so, I should say that the European Commission has recently said: "A successful justice system is a fundamental foundation of all democracy, all democratic arrangements." So if we have this kind of justice system in our country, because certain procedures are going on for 16 years, we're talking about burning things, milestones, not talking about tougher things, then something's wrong with our democracy. And that is why it is right that we are discussing this in the National Assembly, and that is why it is not right that today the Minister of Justice is not present at the meeting, but I understand that he is in Koroška. We will discuss this further, and I will be happy to support the recommendations made by the applicants, because they are good, because they are good. This is a debate that is really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you. He has a word, Mr. Andrey Chus. Get ready, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. Why did I decide to participate in the debate today? Not because of its political views or direction, but because the last message and analysis by the European Commission made it clear to me that the moon shows that things are not working well in the Slovenian justice system. I also decided to discuss it because I am convinced that a successful justice system, which is also fair, is a prerequisite for a normal business environment in which entrepreneurs create new jobs, but not that procedures are carried out from day to day, while some do nothing. Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič said that the Slovenian judiciary is becoming more effective in handling minor cases, while the situation in the area of dealing with economic crime and corruption is pervasive. This statement could probably be agreed by all those present. We note that even in this area, the government has done nothing to this day. Although she has many lawyers in her ranks who are also moral and ethical, to this day this has not been the case. No change is detected for the good, but rather it is detectable changes to the bad. Ddr. Klemen Jaklič also said that over the years I had studied abroad and studied similar legal systems, I had noticed hundreds of measures taken by other countries to bring their legal state into line. But I almost didn't see any of these actions in our house. When Slovenia joined the European Union, then German Judge Doukoff, before, of course, completing his mission before joining the European Union, said that there had been no change of mentality in Slovenia's independence from Slovenian judges. He estimated that judges are primarily concerned with protecting their privileges and payments. He further said that Slovenia had 774 judges for about 2 million people at the time. So 50% more than the judges in Germany. And in Germany, they have half the judges, and everything counts, everything goes as it should, but not with us. So there's something wrong with us. We don't have to be smart about this right now to figure it out. And the problem is, of course, in those who decide. I am sure that in the Slovenian justice system we have many extremely capable and responsible people. Of course, it is just as it is in politics, the economy in all aspects of social life, as well as part of people who, of course, do not have, let's say that they have pure intentions or act primarily for their own interests. The situation has been even worse since its inclusion in the European Union for several years now, 2013. At that time, the European Commission found extremely significant differences between Member States in the duration of civil and economic legal matters. And Slovenia was already in the 4th worst place. Only Cyprus, Malta and Italy followed us. Slovenia has earmarked EUR 78 per capita for the justice system, while the average of the European Union is 41.7. Apparently, we have a very expensive justice system that costs the country a lot. If we were to make some rationalisation there and speed up some procedures for people to be responsible for working, we probably wouldn't then listen to the debate here when we argue about 5 euro pensions, or for some emergency centre, or some other development programmes, but unfortunately, the policy in the past has decided to do so, and it seems obvious that it will do so in the future. The number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants in Slovenia is far greater than in other Member States. And once again, the delays are increasing. Compared to other countries, the justice system does not work. I also looked at the coalition contract of the government of Mir Cerar. Although the coalition agreement also includes a lot or a lot of analysis and study, I would not talk about it. Of course, I support the positive measures that the government is preparing in this area, but I think we are already at the end of March, so that at that time the government can draw up a number of concrete measures, not only in the field of justice, if it has clear objectives and, of course, concrete plans, including in all other areas. That's not what it's been like until now. On the other hand, we have a huge amount of tycoon-produced property, illegally acquired property, but the legislation is, but only on paper, and in practice everyone is laughing at us, and they think we're crazy. Not just at home, but abroad. The last, let's say, mini reform presented to the National Assembly by Mr Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, is just some beautiful corrections, but they will not achieve some serious purposes until the mentality in people changes, in those individuals who have to follow legislation and implement it and explain it to others. That is why I am very confused because we have a coup d'état as Justice Minister, Mr Klemenčič, who has made a state coup with his unconstitutional and illegal PKK report and the coalition holds a stand for him. Everything seems to be the same in the future. We can have the best law enforcement, but if we don't stick to it, then nothing will help us. Neither does Chuck Norris, let's say a little joke, a little bit. Responsibility. Responsibility is something that is debated before the elections much, we are all responsible, we must all be aware of what responsibility it is, but in the country everyone is responsible for their actions. But we have one part of people or one percent of people who don't have to answer for anything. Earlier, Mr Gorenak had said well how it is with doctors, how it is with politicians. Everyone answers. But the judges don't answer. Now, starting this month, in March, the European Commission has issued a new analysis of the state of justice of the Member States of the European Union. Otherwise, in some areas, we have made progress; in some, we are in the same place. It is still, for example, the same chapter on the fact that we have far the most judges per 100,000 inhabitants, that we still have the most expensive or one of the most expensive justice systems. This shows, of course, that all politics had no interest in doing anything. When we suggest that we do what we can in the opposition, we are attacked: What are you doing to put some pressure on us? However, look, trust in the justice system, I think it trusts him every fifth, not probably because of the debates in the National Assembly, but because people in practice are also truly and actually disappointed about the functioning of the justice system. The perception of the independence of the judiciary continues to decline. This is, of course, very disturbing, especially in the light of these concrete evidences, the evidence that we have, again, there is a reasonable suspicion that some courts are working on political dictatorships. As long as politics or, above all, the network that has set up these judges and continues to set them up is involved in the work, it is difficult to say that we will be a free country. There will be a need for some concrete reform and I think it will be the farthest concrete reform when the Minister of Justice resigns. Then he will set the example by showing those who command them or who are bossing them that you must answer for every matter in the country. We have to answer everyone, including the judges. Of course, I would support the recommendations we have made in our parliamentary group, but again we have seen this new or moral-ethical attitude, so unfortunately there will be no debate or vote. But, of course, I'm calling on the minister to at least do something if he doesn't want to step down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u144	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have listened to my colleague Cuch's debate, and I must say that I agree with most of his debate. It's really not pink. These reports of the European Commission also give us a sense of where we are in this kind of European country. We're not exactly on the tail, but we are, let's say, in the last third. It is true, however, that these reports, too, are incomplete and, in this regard, some calls from different countries are still being made to complement the report in order to see what information has been made. I hope that we will also get this supplement in Slovenia, as has been said even on the last Committee on Justice, so that we will have an accurate picture. Today, there is much to be done with that trust rate table, which is people's perception of justice. I have to say, I don't know how this scale came about, but this level of mistrust is not necessarily of a systemic nature. In view of the perception involved, politics could also influence people’s perceptions. And finally, there are things when some people resent that some politicians, for example, have not been convicted in some media-response matter. They too could have voted on this perception. I don't know what extent of people this has been made, and they've given their contribution to our negative points, which is why we're sitting where we are. But today, we have one specific matter ahead of us. I already mentioned that on the Justice Committee. See, the SDS proposal begins by suspecting that in the SDS party we estimate that in the District Court in Ljubljana, in the District Court, in the Higher Court in Ljubljana, in the Supreme Court, transactions with the judicial files take place in two ways. One legal and one illegal. The problem with this proposal is that it is moving on soon, and, yes, a concrete example is the case of Patria. So we're back at Patria's. Mr Gorenak said that I would also define myself later on in relation to the cases brought up by Judge Rozman, but that is indeed too little. That's really not enough. Here we have half the demands that speak only of Patricia, Patricia, Patricia. And in this sense, you are also uncreditable, who have promised that you will also fight in a political way against this judgment, that you are now assessing or demanding some kind of control of the court in this particular case and that this proposal for supervision will be signed by one of these parties in criminal proceedings. I think that this is very controversial and that this matter is not of general interest, as it wishes to show itself, but is very specific. So this is about Patria. I didn't find any other cases, no names, no last names, no numbers. We believe that there is some desire in the Supreme Court for people, writers, heads of departments, I don't know, of course everything is probably under the supreme judge's dictatorship, but there are no names, nothing. Nothing. The only name that appears here is Maslesha, of course. We really can't be so suspicious about this right now that whatever happened, if she said it all, according to her own words. As far as this letter from Judge Rozman is concerned, however, the system also works. When he realized that a writing had been assigned to him in conflict with the law, he warned of this and then the matter was healed. That's just how it's done, because you can't just let things be the way they are, and the thing was fixed. But this letter can only be interpreted so that the obvious system works. I can't explain it to myself. But this letter does not indicate that everything is generally wrong with the Attorney General's Office, and it does not confirm those assumptions unless you come with the names and surnames of all the applicants, but you have been told that, if you know all this, you should press charges against the criminal court. The second point, given that this is once again the case of Patria, because you also wrote in there that it is a case of Patrio in particular, I am interested, this case is now before the Constitutional Court, and if I expect in the Constitutional Court that this was also mentioned in that constitutional complaint and that the Constitutional Court will then be determined in the end if it finds that any constitutional right or constitution has been violated. As far as surveillance is concerned, I have not been able to obtain a magnetogram from the Justice Committee meeting, and I do not know if it is already ready, if I am not mistaken, for Mrs Betto, the Vice-President of the Supreme Court has examined this particular case of Patria and then they have found, on the basis of those electronic entries, that nothing was wrong. I don't know, but now you haven't explicitly demented them and told them what would be, and where they were wrong in that letter, too. So that's why I trust them, it's not another general reason, of course all the statements have to be considered, but they're more justified. But as for some flat-rate statements about this, "Look, we're trying here, and you're not doing anything." We have in the legislative process, we have had and will still have a so-called mini reform. But this can't be tomorrow, it can't be the next day when the government is appointed, but it takes time for the minister to set up his policy in his department and these proposals come to the National Assembly. At that time, we are witnessing the first such laws, I am counting on them to produce certain fruits, and I certainly reject any evidence in the sense that nothing can be done, nor how it can be done. We have already passed quite a few laws, just in the field of justice, and we will adopt some more in the light of the Government's normative plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Very briefly. The way data are collected, international, is everywhere as you say – perception. Normal. That's why we've been wiped out for 10 years or 20 years, and we've had Machineians for five years and everything else. Yeah, it's like that everywhere. The same criteria are everywhere. Let's go in one order. Look. Mrs. Bettto said everything was okay. Of course I'm okay. Look at this sheet of paper. It's okay. Electronically, physically, everything's fine. Why? Because this is an electronic document, which does not state that the case arrived at the Supreme Court at 3:30 p.m. and that it was subsequently put into the system. Of course it doesn't say anything. Don't paint me with that. It's paint. Now, look, one more thing, "complaint." I've already responded, you've been out there somewhere, look at the magnetogram, I won't talk about it again. You say: "Was this also in a constitutional complaint, then the Constitutional Court will remedy it." Yes, it was in the Constitutional Complaint. And according to you, the Constitutional Court will remedy this. Bravo! And in the midst of a double election, a loss in elections. Well, that's not gonna work. That's not gonna work. In this way, the Slovenian political left, in cooperation with the judiciary, can bring any opposition leader to prison before each election. Then they'll be rehabilitating in ten years, but you'll always be in power. Not with all that nonsense! Don't agree to such nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to point out that it's amazing, it's really amazing, but that I'm trying, in our judiciary, to see how everything is the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, everything works, and then when we look at people's public research, and what their opinion is on the functioning of justice, we see that they are on the tail itself. Dear coalition Members and Members, those who debate this way, please ask yourself, are you sitting here in the interest of the Slovenian people or are sitting in the interest of a narrow privileged group and in this way supporting it? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in Nova Slovenije, we warn everyone through the process in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that something does not work in this justice as it should. If so, the public opinion on the functioning and functioning of Slovenian justice would not be the same as it is. And please don't let them convince me to think like that, and that's why I can't listen to it anymore. It's like you don't hear your people living in another world. Then go to the moon or Mars. You have nothing to look for in the National Assembly unless you hear your people, unless you hear what people tell you! Our people, Slovenians and Slovenians say that. And I would like to ask you nicely, I would like to remind you of this and I have nothing personal, but I want you to hear the people, so the people have chosen you, not only the opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, but also all other parliamentary groups, regardless of political affiliation. Now I will go back specifically to what he wrote to Borivoj Rozman for the purpose of listening to the government's replies, i.e. the representative of the judiciary, and I will read it again and then comment on what the representative of the Ministry of Justice said. The gentleman I spoke about wrote the following: "After a review of the file in IUP/129/2013, the defendant with a name and surname against the defendant, the Anti-Corruption Commission for Human Rights and Freedoms, I found that this file was assigned to me on the basis of an incorrect entry in the XIPS Audit Register. Following the finding that the complaint and the incorrect entry were made, the file was copied in the IUP complaint and the order of the judges was not taken into account......" Without taking into account the order of judges "who decide on complaints or did not respect the principle of a natural judge. Because in the same case, I have ruled in a provisional order as a Judge-Rapporteur and the file has been assigned to me in the work beyond the order of judges." Once again, over the line of judges. So this gentleman tells the Supreme Court very clearly and justifies why this document was written to Branko Masleši, the President of the Supreme Court. And let one of you say that this judge is lying, that he deceives the public, that he speaks the untruths, that what is written here is not true. I very much ask that one of the Members and Members sitting in this House claim that this judge is lying to me. Well, tell me who you were discussing. Is this judge lying? Is he lying about what he wrote down? It is said that in the Supreme Court the wrong things are happening, he wrote down, said very clearly. And that's unacceptable. And look how elegantly the government responded to this problem. She replied: "The Ministry of Justice has called on the Supreme Court on these allegations. And it demanded an explanation and, of course, this explanation from the Supreme Court also received, which indicates that the evidence is unfounded." And now, on the one hand, we have what the Chief Justice wrote, Mr Rozman, and on the other hand, we have that report that the Ministry of Justice received, and here this judge points out the problems and problems he wanted to draw attention to, and here, when he gets the justice ministry to explain it, it is stated in this explanation that the allegations are unfounded and that everything is fine in the Supreme Court. Now you tell me if I'm crazy. Am I crazy in this National Assembly? On the one hand, the Supreme Judge writes that irregularities are happening there, and here the Government claims to me, the report shows that everything is ok in the Supreme Court. Please, I think even if I'm a farmer from Sweet Peak, I can't understand and you can't convince me that I'm crazy. But I'm not crazy. And I'll tell you this because I can read, and I can understand what was said here today. And the distinguished Mr. Representative of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Justice, the Ministry of Justice. You know exactly that the fact that the one who controls himself, and this is the Supreme Court, has great potential for manipulation. You know the very good river crow does not rule out. And for this very reason, I will tell you that in what is written here and what you as a representative of the Ministry of Justice have said, what the Supreme Court has written to us, I do not believe. I don't believe it and you won't convince me. But I believe this supreme judge who wrote this. But I believe him because he signed downstairs. And I didn't see what you were talking about today. I guess the law doesn't allow me to believe that that report could possibly have been presented here or that it would have been presented here because you received it from the Supreme Court, on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I now proceed with the functioning of our justice system. I would like to draw attention to one problem, because we are constantly trying to see how well our justice system works. I have one example of my mother. My mother had been suing for 15 years, 15 years just because she was fired in the time of the hospital stock and she was really sick and because her employer fired her and had connections and he was a communist, he had a red card, and those people still listen to me today and know who they are, was not decided on 15 years in the Slovenian court. And should a Slovenian little man who doesn't have money have confidence in this justice system? Don't make fun of me, well, don't make fun of me, bureaucrats, please, from a poor nation, don't make fun of me, I'll tell you, don't make fun of us! And the next thing is, the bankruptcy process runs for 20 years in the Republic of Slovenia. Does that seem normal to you? Does that seem normal to you, by God?Oh, my God! Not to mention, we've recently had enough information about the plight of bankruptcyists and judges, the catastrophic story of what happened on this, what happened so that it wouldn't happen again. It's still the same story. And where is the justice system, Mr. Honourable Representative of the Ministry of Justice, when we talk about the robberies of the century, we are talking about TES 6, we are talking about a bank hole, we are talking about a mafia that stole not know how many 10 billion Slovenian money from banks? Where's the justice system? Where is the justice system in the Tošić case? We all remember him well, the mob is a top-notch, top-notch mob dealing drugs released from prison. From prison, he even solved his assets through a lawyer. Proven and nothing wrong. Not to mention the problem of Zidar, SCT and so on, not to continue with Mr Jankovic, with his sons and pigs, which are happening around not to continue with, say, the problem of Simone Dimic and so on and so forth, respected colleagues and colleagues. And you're trying to convince us in this National Assembly that we're the opposition fools, that we're constantly attacking the justice system, that everything is great and ah and all. Yes, please, once again, I'm asking you where you live, whether you live on Mars or now on some remote planet that I don't know where, because it's too big to understand the key and the key problem in this country. And the key problem in this country is that we are here, where we are, the justice system, the non-functioning of the justice system and the political judgment. And the distinguished representative of the Ministry of Justice, I have never claimed that all the judges are corrupt, we have a whole bunch of young, honest, high-quality judges, but these masters, I say, in the justice system, the prosecution, and so on, don't let go near, they all have to be there, sitting in there as freshmen and listening to the instructions on how to function, and then those key people with partner cards make political decisions. And those who are not politically close to them must be put behind their backs. And in such a corrupt, rotten, stinking way to win elections and manipulate the Slovenian public. Why is only 48% of people going to elections, why? Because they can't watch it anymore because they're sick! There's no justice in the justice system for a little man, that's what I'm telling you. Go among the people a little, not only here in Ljubljana, the center of Ljubljana, because you live as gods, go a little to Styria, come up to the Slovenian Mountains, so I will not tell you where, Pomurje, Prekmurje, Koroška and you will see what little people will tell you. They do not hope to press charges because they are convinced in advance that there is no justice in our judicial system. Dear Representative, you should respond to this, you should, we are waiting for the marriage proposals to enter a step closer to the Slovenian people, not a step closer to the mafia, the robbers and all those who have stolen everything that is possible in this country. And you will again, one of you will say that I am a demagogist, that I speak demagogy, but I will tell you what I am telling you today. This is the truth that I stand for, a million percent, and most of the Slovenian people are behind it. And one day, the bill will come. You have already pretended three times, perhaps not that I will now blame anyone of the Members and Members who are here today, who are not guilty of anything, but those, the team, the uncles in the background, in the back of the Slovenian people with such faces, new faces and with those solutions and such solutions that they have been given elections so that they can continue to stand up to the mafia, who has robbed the Slovenian state and destroyed the economy at every possible step. This mob working from behind, and together, the judicial branch of power, the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of power, is our duty to step together and step on this gang. I don't take responsibility to come among my own people anymore, but they say, "You're all the same bastards!" You're all guilty! You're all bastards, you're all stealing! I will no longer tolerate this because I do not need to because I am honest and I also believe in the honesty of all those sitting in Parliament. Therefore, I expect from you that together we will find the right path and go in a direction to help this country bring once closer to some right and some justice so that even those little ones will have their chance to survive in this country, not only the privileged layer of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Secretary of State, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Member, I regret to say that I have received the impression that we are not living in the same country in the same justice. But it's a matter of perception. Regardless of your implementation, we have more people in prisons each year, disputes are resolved – one loses, one gets, one is satisfied, one is not satisfied. If they took the time and read the report published at the opening of the judicial year, they could find that the users of the courts, i.e. those who themselves have a direct experience with the court, were satisfied with the services of the court in more than half the cases. Let me start by saying something else. No, I haven't heard anyone here today say what you thought was a baseline thesis that you hear here that everything is great, well, perfect in justice. Far from it. It can be much better, and I believe it will be. The trend is also from the past. But it's an absurd situation when I listen to these statements, I'm going to say figuratively, as if every day, not least I'm not just a secretary of state, I'm also a citizen, a taxpayer of this country, and I'm going to say figuratively that I'm listening to the policies that say that the snow is falling, every day it's through more, we need shovels and tools to take it off, but no one is. The bank hole, the TES that you mentioned, all of these matters I had in some way the privileges because I see the public service as a privilege, not as a classic service, the duty to participate in the detection of these mistakes, including the co-author of the draft law for TES, which you will receive at the table, and the ministry, this team, which is now, within five months to this national assembly for the purpose, in good faith and belief that we contribute to the more effective functioning of the judiciary, submitted 6 laws. In a very short time, as has already been mentioned, but it is planned, and this is also evident from the normative programme, and amendments will be proposed. I believe that they will be good, that they will contribute to progress and development, and that the result will also be what time will show. But it's really funny and it's paradoxical to listen to people who have been in this policy for 20 years and talk about there being more snow every day, but no one is taking it off. We believe we're going to try one piece of it, try to say it in a parable. I believe bread is made of crumbs, and everyone needs bread to be whole. In this context, I would just like to make a general comment on this implementation, because I think it's almost as if the world were beginning to spin today. This society has its history, its past, its development, and I think it is positive that the trend is good, but of course it could be significantly better and faster in a wide range of areas, not just in justice. However, as regards your statement or expectations and comments on the statements made by the appointed Judge, Mr Rozman, I will come from what is the subject of today's debate, Mr Member. The claim in the material, which is the basis for the recommendations for judicial supervision or supervision of the judiciary and proposes the establishment of a procedure for the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court, is justified by the proposalers' claim that there is a parallel system for the allocation of cases on a political basis. The case that you are now making, unfortunately, was to be understood from your discussion that you did not have the opportunity or information or that you did not look at the material in which it is very clear and thoroughly explained how it was done and how it was done in the case that you highlighted it. This is an audit report or a report by the KPC, which came from the Administrative Court and was marked in the submission report as an audit, as an exceptional legal remedy, rather than an appeal, as a regular legal remedy. As a result, the staff entered the case in the wrong register and assigned it in the correct manner. This is very thorough and detailed in this report, which you have not read, and due to the fact that the basis for your performance is wrong and of course all performances are wrong and people then get the impression that everything is the same. It's not all the same. Each story has its own life and needs to be concrete and visible, so that people know what we are talking about. When this case was assigned to a judge to whom you also referred or wrote this report, it was then assigned to a professional associate and she found the following day that it was an incorrect record because it was the content of the appeal, not the audit case. And then immediately the system reacted itself. The case was entered in the correct register assigned to the same judge and when the judge warned about the legal or natural judge, an order was issued immediately and the case was resolved and assigned to the right judge. So it's about the circumstances that have happened. But now please explain to me, because maybe I don't have the potential to understand where the political line parallel system is. For me, this is an effective self-regulation and an effective internal control system, which identifies and remedys the matter. It has been said many times, there are more cases like this, probably not one and only, mistakes and similar things happen everywhere. That's human. It is absolutely necessary to seek to ensure or try to ensure that the mechanisms reduce this to a minimum. But we're not talking about the same things here. Here I see no parallel system politically motivated. Please, if you are essentially building such an impression, which is very serious, we are talking about the Supreme Court, so that you can at least try so hard and read the material and then explain or base your position. We say, where the reasons for or against end, then the faith begins. Someone believes, someone doesn't. What we need here is grounds and reasons to say that an obvious statement is justified. And the reasons cited by the Supreme Court are, in my opinion and apparently, also in the opinion of the Council of Justice as the most eminent and autonomous body of the judiciary, which has the same authority and duty under this Article 64 of the Court Act, that it can only, even by a vote of notority, call on the Supreme Court to report to it on any or allegory infringements referred to in this Article, which may or may constitute the basis for the discharge, say, of the President of the Supreme Court. None of these submitted data, information and documents understood the matter as justified. On the contrary. And you keep saying that this is justified, and then in the debate we see that you don't even read the material. This is sad and worrying. It's hard to comment and prove that something exists if it doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Marijan Pojbič has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, these insults, this cynical act of yours, this attitude of yours towards Members and Members is for the first time absolutely unacceptable and untapped. What I've read or not, you can't decide. I know what I read. And I read this material. But I would like to tell you what was the intention of my debate. But the intention of my debate was, you said: to be wrong is human. That's what you said. So there's no problem in the justice system if you get wrong and you convict someone, and you go to jail for five years, and then you find out he didn't do it, it's all human. Where are the sequences, I'm asking you. Now that you were talking about finding out that there was this irregularity that you were talking about with regard to this problem — where are the sequences? What sequences did the Supreme Court accept? On the basis of that, have you reacted as the Ministry of Justice and prepared any amendments to legislation that would no longer allow for such and other problems? And, Mr Secretary of State, remember this well what I'm about to say. I wasn't talking about chicken thieves. I was talking about privileged mobs in this society. And you'll never convince me of anything in the way you've just said that you've really taken those people's heads who have stolen a particular country that manipulates and does what suits them. Because most people of the Slovenian nation are not convinced of this, and I am not sure either. And you haven't convinced me yet, and you won't convince me. And I'm not interested in chicken thieves, but I'm interested in mobs, privileged societies that have robbed all of Slovenia so far, taking tens of billions out of this country. That's what I'm interested in. Once you've come with this and proved that you've really made great moves in this area, not to lock someone up for 14 days, and then to release him from prison just because he's politically correct. No kidding, no! But don't convince me, the Slovenian people don't believe you anymore, and you can say whatever you want here. And I am telling you the truth, and it would be right already to start thinking in this direction and start listening to those who are telling you what is the essence of the problem in this country and in the functioning of the justice system. Once you find that out, admit it to yourself and start working in this direction, making decisions, then justice will come to the level that most European countries have. Not that we are on average and that justice is embarrassing the Slovenian state in the European community.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u153	A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Yeah, we're back there, aren't we? Not me, Secretary of State. Don't stop me from being okay with Borivoy Rozman. Everything's fine today. That's right. On the 9th. 4. But it wasn't 2013. And the file was assigned to him by order. Just as Mrs Tratnik's file was assigned in the case of Patrio is out of order. And you say, yes, everything's fine. Of course it's okay. Tell me who was responsible for the sanctions. And the answer we both know is nothing. Nothing was done. You're saying there's no evidence of Patricia's arrival late or 3:30. Yeah, why didn't you check this out? Change the law, write the law that the Ministry of Justice can verify the functioning of the judiciary in the Supreme Court, go there, send your co-worker there and find out. And one thing she'll find out is that there's no more letter in the file that says 3:30. He's gone. But you don't want to do this. That's the problem. And again. I don't know who, Mr. Zorčič or who, when he talked about it, you talk about Janša and protect Janša and so on. Don't talk nonsense! I'll do it again. Gentlemen to K, which I cannot name, because the law restricts me, K. J. I will now add, but perhaps he will only recognize himself, was judged by Zvič's Barbara, and should be judged by Tratnik's. Mrs L. S. was tried by Mrs. Žalikov, but Barbara Zobst should have. Mr M. M. was tried by Damian Floriančič, but he should have been Zalik's. T.S. was tried by Mrs. Kristina Ozbolt, but Damian Floriančič should have. Look, constitutional rights have been violated for all of us. This is five citizens who have been violated by constitutional rights. If the Supreme Court and these writers run as they should, here the media will say that I am giving double information, which I am about to say, the media said, after the press conference, that this is how they avoided Mr Shorley, which is wrong. If the record ran the way it was supposed to run, and it would be on day 20. 6. bring everyone in and the Patria case would arrive at, say, 9:00 a.m., would be the natural judge, Mrs Kristina Ozbolt. That's how we know it was someone else. See, that's the problem. But you don't want to check this problem. You don't have a legal basis, I know. Bring the law. I'll tell you that we'll meet again next time, but we'll come with a member of the CAP or the Courts Act, where it'll say you have the authority to check. Then you'll go against it again — or what? That's the problem. No. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Bojana Muršič, get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think we've been listening to this debate for two hours now. I think we're a little far from this recommendation. First of all, I must really thank the proposaler, Dr Vink Gorenak, for the good cooperation he has set out at the outset on the Committee on Justice. I believe that we will continue to do so in the future, because I am essentially respecting the principle of equality. But here I'm going to really touch what you're saying, in fact, in our parliamentary position of Social Democrats, we're going to refer to nationals and class citizens, I'm going to say that. Here I will say that this is stated in our position because Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clear: the principle of equal protection of rights. This means that a provision shall be applied non-arbitraryly in relation to each individual where, in proceedings before the courts, the courts apply the law in specific cases equally for all, without taking personal circumstances into account. That is why the reference here is "a higher-class citizen", and I personally believe that we have second-class citizens. Personally, I'm a second-rate citizen, because if something like this happened to me, believe me, I wouldn't be here today in the National Assembly, but I would be where I belong. And on this subject, I'm concluding this thing. Then you stated that Janko Marinko carefully presented his views on how the files were assigned. That's true. You weren't present at this session. I sincerely hope you've been watching it on TV, because I, from all of this visualized, the whole reconstruction that he's shown about assigning files, don't think there's any reservations that we wouldn't believe. Now who do I trust? You, as an MP or someone of those kinds. Here, too, I don't think I should doubt that. Somehow you've also warned me that we're saying that everything is fine in court. Let me once again touch on the position of the Social Democrats. Social Democrats are not entirely satisfied with the work of the judiciary or with the results that we also accept through the consideration of the reports on the work of the courts for each year. So here I strongly oppose the position that has been expressed. I must say that I am sorry that we did not address the situation in the field of justice of the European Union for 2015 yesterday, for one reason, because no country in the European Union is satisfied with this report, so the Minister made it clear yesterday what is going on. Court records will be drawn up, as not all criteria for all countries are respected equally. That's why we're as low as we are. But I believe there will be improvements in our judiciary, there will be improvements and we can never do better. I have no reservations here, and I also expect the Minister of Justice to follow. However, I must also say here that I certainly support things to be clarified, to be precise, to discover that there are no concerns, because we are the legislative branch of power. However, if there have been any suspicions, it would certainly be good to have the competent authorities who are empowered to do so, certainly not a national assembly. This is for once in my shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you. The text is requested by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Just one sentence. Yeah, I don't mind what you said, Mrs. Mursich. That's what we suggested. We're not gonna monitor it, we're gonna search the files. We have proposed that the Ministry of Justice should request a report. That's what we suggested, but they won't. That's the problem. If you're going to tell me that you've already received it - not that report, not that one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, Mr Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to recall once again that the Ministry of Justice has obtained the answers and the report of the Supreme Court twice in writing on this matter. And the report is very much, as I have already said, thoroughly, comprehensively and justifiably stated, that the evidence of a parallel politically motivated system is unfounded and unrealistic. So you expect a re-report from the same body. I think it's unreasonable and out of line with any additional comment. However, we do not have the authority to exercise judicial oversight.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u161	Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you. Just one sentence. Okay, so you got the report, and everything's fine. So you're landing, I'm going into criminal waters, that there's a killer in front of you who says he didn't kill. So he gave a satisfactory explanation. Not like that! I don't fit in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Stare, dear colleagues and colleagues! I welcome today's debate, welcome the proposals for recommendations and will also support them. In four minutes, I will try to make a contribution with four concrete proposals to the improvement of the situation in Slovenian justice. The functioning of Slovenian justice has been the burden and sorrow of citizens and citizens for the last 20 years. I, too, am personally and, as it seems, the skies of this day. It's raining out there. Payable non-discipline, failed prosecution of economic crime, long trials, procedural complications, corruption, low trust in the rule of law, feeling of two legal states. One for elites and the other for small people, this is only a fraction of the state of Slovenian justice, which has not since yesterday, is not from today and, as has already been said, 20 years. We have also consistently warned about these anomalies in Novi Slovenije in the past. There are no investors, and there will be no investors, because they say they're not insured enough, and as you know, the capital is a bird's sheet. We respect the constitutional provision on the independence of the judiciary, and we do not intend to play the role of a judge in specific matters because this is not our task. Above all, an objective and fair trial is the responsibility of someone else. As elected representatives of the people, however, we have the right and duty to protect and guarantee, within our powers, the framework for the exercise of constitutionally defined rights, such as the right to equality before the law, the right to judicial protection, the right to a trial within a reasonable time and so on and so forth. At the end of 2012, I was together with at least twenty, thirty colleagues and colleagues at the summit of the Slovenian economy. There was also at least half of the government and the Slovenian economy has made four demands. I talk about this a lot, but since repetitio mother studioum est, they taught me at second grade in Maribor, repetition is the mother of learning. And as the first requirement is the following, the first requirement the economy has put before us is the rule of law. At that time, in December 2012, Minister Plicanic presented to coalition partners the outline of reforms, the reforms of the judiciary. First set, amendments and additions to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. I don't have time to tell you what he meant here. In the second section, of course, the new law on succession, the new law on criminal procedure, the amendment of the Law on Judicial Procedure, the amendment of the Law on Notariat and the amendment of the Law on Lawyery, the amendment of the Law on free legal assistance and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. This is a document that would be very useful to the current government, and I believe it's somewhere in the Ministry. I must say that I have studied the situation of justice in the European Union for 2015, the European Commission, on 9 March this year. And I read: Together with the assessment of the situation in individual Member States, the findings of the 2014 review contributed to the preparation of country-specific recommendations in the field of justice. And here we are looking at a few years ago some recommendations and Slovenia is always among those countries where nothing has changed. These countries are, thank God, ever less, Slovenia is always among them. And nothing has changed in Slovenia. That's the European Commission. And the last thing about the frame-up. When Prof. Verica Trstenjak concluded her term as Advocate General at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg, Slovenian universities did not practically smell it. And the Danube just grabbed her. So much for these top-notch experts. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u166	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! As we have heard many times today, the Constitution in 22. The article stipulates that each individual shall be given equal protection in the proceedings before a court, state authorities, local authorities which, of course, decide on his or her rights and duties. Furthermore, the Constitution also in 23. the article provides that an individual shall also have the right to judicial protection. So an individual may be tried by a judge who is chosen according to the rules laid down by law and the Rules of Procedure. However, the Rules of Procedure lay down the scope and method of assigning individual cases. Unfortunately, as in all other areas, finance, education, health, banking, as well as in this area, it is said in the field of justice, unfortunately we find that there is a violation of the rules or legislation. In this case, which we are dealing with today, there is a violation of the rules or legislation in assigning individual cases to resolution. Here I am referring to the so-called irregularities in the registration of judicial cases in the records of the courts and thus to violations of the Rules of Procedure, the Law on Courts and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That there is illegal activity in the field of the allocation of judicial records in the Supreme Court, we are warned by both the public and the employees within the judicial sphere. Finally, the public was informed of the issue of file allocation at the Supreme Court at the end of last year, when Chief Justice Rozman informed the President of the Supreme Court in writing that the file had been misrecorded in criminal matters. But before that, I must point out that this file was in a drawer of the Supreme Court for a year. He was in the Supreme Court drawer for a year. However, the file should be registered under administrative matters. More. A case was referred to the judge in question by way of order, which means that the principle of a legal or natural judge was not respected. When the file was translated into the administrative register, the file was re-allocated to him in a resolution, again past the natural order, which is governed by legislation and also by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We have heard this a number of times in our debate today. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that the judiciary, in accordance with the Law on the Courts, make a recommendation on alleged infringements of the regulations relating to the operation of judicial records in the District, District and Supreme Court of Ljubljana. The report is to be prepared with the aim of eliminating or confirming, underlining, eliminating or confirming the suspicion of illegality in the conduct of judicial proceedings and of duly acting in the event of an irregularity finding. I regret to say, however, that this is how the coalition, with SMC at the head of the Ministry of Justice, with a sharp explanation, has been rejected. And with that, I must also say that our suspicion that irregularities are really happening has only solidified. The European Commission's most recent report states that Slovenia spends the most money on justice in the EU and that it has the highest number of judges per hundred thousand inhabitants. In view of the above, I would expect our judges to be incorruptible, effective and strictly comply with the Constitution, the Law on Judicial Service and, of course, the Order of Justice. Isn't that right? And unfortunately, for nothing, we expect swift and fair procedures. More. The European Commission, which issued its report on 9 March this year, notes, among others, that Slovenia is the fifth worst country in the EU with confidence in the judiciary. Only Portugal can outrun it with regard to judicial backlogs. According to the independence of the judiciary, Slovenia belongs to the tail ladder. According to the quality of justice, Slovenia has been included in the 25th place since 28. In Slovenia, the highest proportion of GDP is allocated to the courts. To spend almost €87 per capita on court expenses. That we have 45.5 judges per hundred thousand inhabitants and are therefore in the first place within the EU. More than 23 EU Member States have fewer than 30 judges per hundred thousand inhabitants. And that the average duration of the procedure is 301 days for us, for example, Austria 135 days. This could probably still be mentioned, but I should probably try very hard to find some information that would place us on the top itself or on the top of the scale in a positive sense. And, colleague Muršič, if she is not in the hall, her finding that the Slovenian judiciary is comparable to others or with other European countries is unfortunately not true. In view of the above, I will stress once again, I am not surprised that there is an irregularity in the work of the courts and the wrong ones, that I do not even say political decisions. These are mostly the result of an order from outside or within the court itself and unfortunately also from the agreed judgments. The Justice Minister recently said that each country has as many legal states as people feel it. I must unquestionably say that I agree with his statement. However, the positive response that we can actually feel this legal state cannot be shared or confirmed. We are convinced of this illegal country by both the European Commission's latest research and the citizens who express these feelings about the rule of law every Wednesday before the Supreme Court. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u167	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u168	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Honourable representative of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor beat me to the punch, and she gave me some information I was thinking of. I am not going to repeat all of this because these data are not comforting, we cannot boast about them, but from these data we see that something is very wrong here. The confidence of our citizens and citizens in the judiciary is very low. The European Commission's report also shows that we should think about what kind of judiciary we have. I would stress the judicial procedures in the economy itself. How much damage has been done in recent years or in the decade, in two decades, in the economy itself, due to judicial proceedings involving several years. How many legal entities have gone bankrupt at this time also because judicial proceedings have not been completed in time. This is for a variety of companies, as if the medical board had diagnosed the real diagnosis after the doctor's death. What was the result of a conviction to an entrepreneur when he went to bankruptcy a year or two ago and then got justice in court. There's a lot of that. There are also bankruptcy procedures that go on for so long. Unpaid contractors, subcontractors. When we asked investors why it's not paid, why the state doesn't pay, say Dars to performers in the construction of a highway, where traffic has been going on for several years, and subcontractors haven't gotten paid for their works, it was said that Dars can't pay because the bankruptcy manager or the court won't leave until it's resolved to the end. Some subcontractors have failed to complete the facility, while another damage is done, the environmental impacts are because the object is not complete, abnormal, but everything stands. But no one wonders where the original sin is. Justice is an independent branch of the area, we are untouchable. We can work as long as we do it. If someone makes a mistake in the first degree, the second step will fix it in two years or three years. And the thing is done. Just like the inspector. It fine-tuns someone, and because he gets that kind of money for the country, he's progressing on his service scale, three years from now, and four years from now, the Supreme Court finds that the decisions are annulled. And no one gets hurt. It's all right. Is everything okay? And this is what we do with those who contribute to our budget. That means we get paid. But we don't know. Even in the nature of the ant, it carries the ear from the leaf to the leaf so that it can milk it. But we are not aware that we are living on an added value from the real sector. No, but we destroy because we are unhappiness to some individuals who have succeeded, who have yachts and don't know what else. But more of these yachts are from the state's stolen money, rather than earned fairly from the business itself. There will also be a need for order in this area. Also, those honest judges who do not want to hear are speaking because we throw everything into the same basket. They're not all like that. However, they are apparently still in the great minority so far that they cannot make order within themselves. But they show with your finger, and you've heard from your colleagues today, certain concrete facts as to how this is happening. And probably no one's gonna react, but now they're gonna be looking for whistleblowers. You'll be looking for those who betrayed it. Instead of it being the other way around. But by law, if you know something illegal is going on, you have to warn me. Every citizen. But it's the other way around, like it's all right with us. If it suits us right now, our children and grandchildren will be poor. People are running away. Real parents now aim to train their children so that they can get a job outside our country, where honest work is also paid. This is the interest of our youth, who are also fleeing, including our entrepreneurs, because they have an unstable environment here for the development of their economy. Ask entrepreneurs who have growth whether they want to invest in Slovenia. What are the opportunities to invest in Slovenia? They're gone. But we need foreign investors to reduce unemployment, increase the number of employees, increase added value, economic growth. But with such steps, as it shows here, in three years we have reduced the trial time from 310 to 305 days, it will take another 20 years to arrive at the normal times of these proceedings, the judicial proceedings they have in other European, advanced European countries. But we must not follow the Portuguese and the Greeks and Cyprus. And someone else. I point out these things, I'm not a lawyer, I haven't had a lot of such judicial experience yet, but I'd like to answer someone who asks who's been crying under the burden of the judiciary, and I don't know what to do, thinking about suicide, not seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, but I don't know how to answer it. With these laws, as you say, you have prepared them quickly, I hope that they will eliminate and speed up these reforms in the right direction. We are probably not aware of how much damage we are doing to our economy with this situation in court. And it will take a lot of effort to turn the trend to the other side and gain the trust of both the policy and the judiciary. I hope you have a happy hand so that the results will be known as soon as possible. But in a way like today's position advocates the judiciary, I have some bad promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u169	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! It is more than obvious that in this country we have some untouchable institutions, which we are almost difficult to come to a debate with, let alone to accept a coalition, let this be at the time of Borut Pahor, let it be at the time of Alenka Bratušek or Mira Cerar, not any conclusions at all. We are talking about courts, we are talking about the Bank of Slovenia, we are talking about the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or some other institution. Whatever we propose in the opposition, whenever we propose to open any point that has proved problematic, where problems are, and we would like to have a debate at the committees or at a meeting of the National Assembly, there is always a coalition of proposals for conclusions that do not vote. How is it possible for these enormous problems that we have in this country in the areas listed above to be the KPK and your current boss, to be the Bank of Slovenia and the banking system, to be the judiciary, to be able to adopt no proposal for a decision, not ours, and not yours at all to set up a corridor or direction to try to solve problems in these areas? I wonder, colleagues from coalition parties, how is that possible? This cannot be explained in any other way than that we have some untouchable systems in this country that are not even allowed to doubt that something is wrong. And what the Secretary of State is doing today is part of this, part of protecting this inviolability and preventing them from even questioning that something is wrong. In the most normal society, in perfectly normal countries, when a problem was discovered, such as within the judiciary, all the alarms would ring and the system would respond, politics would respond and the public would respond. And this problem would simply be tried by measures if it did not go with measures such as these and other measures, as well as to remedy them. But there's a roadblock going on with us. In our case, those who find some problems, some flaws, some mistakes in any of these systems, we experience defeat. Here comes the Secretary of State, someone who hasn't even run for office, who has no responsibility, nor does he represent politics, and here teaches what we can tell us what we can think and what we can propose. That's unworthy. And also those who held the meeting at that time are in solidarity with this way of conducting the meeting. Look, our justice has been falling on all the scales for a number of years, not to say competitiveness, not to say any criteria, if you look at the last five years and watch us progress negatively on these scales, you'll be able to figure that out. Not in any area in the last five years in any measure, global or domestic, Slovenian justice has progressed on the performance scales, quality, perception of people to the quality of workers. Doesn't that seem strange to you in the government? Because this means that Slovenian justice, like many other systems in these comparisons, loses its competitiveness with other judicial systems in Austria, Germany, Sweden and so on. We're going down. We are overtaken in some of the bantustan areas of the South African Republic, we are behind Swaziland, we are behind Lesotho. And this, Mr Secretary of State, who really knows a lot about this justice and quality of work, could at least check it out and see if what he's saying here and convincing us is true at all. This self-evaluation, which takes place within the judiciary or banking or KPK, is in fact a key issue. And for this self-evaluation, then a ruling policy that obviously lives on from what's going on in this judiciary is set for this high evaluation. Things don't happen, things don't happen, things don't happen, things don't happen. We speak, and in this case, we have also written a specific case of one judge who has warned of this, I think once or twice, in writing. If this information alone does not provide sufficient grounds for anyone in the judicial system, especially the Ministry of Justice, to order some control — we did not prescribe — and to determine whether it is true or not, then something is seriously wrong. And the characteristic for all institutions, now for the Bank of Slovenia and also for the KPK is that exactly this and in exactly this way they are going to do so, they are not taking any control, they give any report that it is all about and in general a ruling policy, it is said always the left provenienci, that is to say the present Cerarjevo, former Bratuškova, the former Pahorjevo is placed on the trenches and defends it until unconscious. All of these institutions I'm talking about are super-average staff. That's what my colleagues used to say. In this respect, the Bank of Slovenia also applies. The Swedish Central Bank, which also manages monetary policy and payment transport, has five times fewer employees per 100,000 inhabitants than the Slovenian Bank of Slovenia. Can you imagine that? Five times less! And it is an extremely rich country in the European Union by number of employees. And it also leads to payment traffic. When you want the government's answer to this parliamentary question I have here, they don't talk about numbers, they hide for some flat rates and refer to the Bank of Slovenia Act and I don't know who else. As in this case, when we want a debate on justice, when we want a debate on some things to be checked and amendments to the laws prepared, we refer to a report from the government that has been prepared by the judiciary alone. If we wanted to, Mr Secretary of State, and you could also tell the Minister, to have a high-quality debate on the state of Slovenian justice, the government or the Minister of Justice should do something in this area. Let this be the prosecution, let this go to the courts, let this go to no one. You don't have, and you don't want to do any revisions, no controls, so we don't get any data and findings. And even when we serve you with examples when we propose such benevolent soft conclusions, the government coalition refers to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Even Mrs. Murgel mentioned it. But what was in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, with the proposals of the amendments, has been addressed. And if our recommendations are problematic, the government coalition, including the former judge, could draw up its proposal for a decision in order to allow something in this area of justice to be done. But they don't do that. We are in a situation where the President of the Government, when his ministers, especially Mr Klemenčič, speak out here about transparency or, after home, transparency, justice, justice about what I don't know, while at the same time preventing their vote from accepting anything in order to actually make it possible. But where there is no transparency, there is no justice, there is no justice, there is no real state of affairs, there is no responsibility. If we want to realize this, if we want to figure out what's going on, then we can demand responsibility. And the best thing to do is to avoid making any recommendations, any conclusions, or solutions in laws that make it possible. And that's what you do. This is what you do in court, something similar in the prosecution, is very similar in the Bank of Slovenia Act and Banking Act and so on. We are collecting money for banks, we are spending too much money on funding the judicial system, which is excessively comparable to the European Union, and this is nominally excessive, not to mention the structure of GDP, where these shares are even three times higher because our GDP is still three times lower and so on. That's what we're talking about. The result of all of this when controls are prevented is poor performance. And even where many things are more obvious, where there is a violation of even the constitution, and these are read lists, there is no action. No one is required to be responsible. As far as accountability in this justice system is concerned, it is more than clear why it is not happening. Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič is the person here between us or between you, who has been found to have committed most of the violations of the law in the service he performed. The Court of Auditors for the Minister of Justice found that he had violated eight laws in the operation of that KPK Senate. Practically every law he has taken into his hands has been found to be a serious violation. The Supreme Court found and overturned a proposal or a decision or report in one part concerning our President only because it stated in the statement that the constitutionally protected human rights had been violated, so it also violated the Constitution. And how can a person who comes into a political position with this mortgage now work and agree to carry out audits, control in a system covered by it, if documented, definitively established from the point of view of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Court, violate the Constitution and laws? Does that make sense?Oh, my God! Is this possible to be expected of the person for whom this has been established? And the best tool is to prevent this from eliminating the recommendations we have proposed. Therefore, these recommendations are not available. When we go to the banking system, it will be similar if we discuss the Anti-Corruption Commission, if we discuss recommendations for the rehabilitation of the health system, it will be similar. I also have here this opinion of the Government, which has been adopted in this particular case. And this is what the government says that we only give flat-rate assessments to proposers. With concrete examples, this proposal is supported. With a specific case. There are really no 325 written and there is no need for that, but it is a concrete case. And this particular case would be taken into consideration by anyone who is fit to serve as chairman or minister and would check what actually happened before writing a flat-rate reply that just prepared the basis for deciding the coalition. The coalition decides as the Prime Minister thinks. That's what Mrs. Kustec says every time she's asked. With regard to Webra, the position of the parliamentary group and the coalition, as the President of the Government will say, on the next case, will be the same as will be said by the Prime Minister of the Government, and also with regard to the situation in the judicial system, it is obvious that he will process the position through the Prime Minister of the Government. In what area can you expect progress? Are we making progress in these areas or not? Gentlemen, if we are not making progress in the field of justice, and we fall by two cities every year, then mention that something in this system is seriously wrong and that no policy, no action, not the conduct of anyone, but, above all, those in charge of control are not taking the right course. It will be difficult to convince anyone within the EU that we are better if we fall three more places than the previous report. Such assessments can only be made by people who have no self - criticism of what they do and think that everything they do is actually the best. The key problem of these discussions, which we put in the National Assembly and which concern individual substantive areas, which are also largely judicial, is that, in these areas where we are lagging behind comparable European Union countries, something is being done. That things move to take positive action. These positive measures, gentlemen, are not in the government. And if you can only turn around by trying to banalise things, debasing where you can't, you have to block conclusions by not voting on whether we want a better justice system or not. We don't talk about all the judges being bad or all the parts of the court being bad. But it's definitely part of it, just like any system. No system is impeccable, no system is, I don't know, so it's blissful and absolutely capable. There are also persons in it who do not work properly and in the right way. And what is in our material, the distinguished representative of the government, I ask you to bring it to your minister, should the government determine whether they hold it or not. The Government should provide an answer as to whether or not the indications to be obtained by means of control are held. If you don't want to do this, then that poetic answer can be written by anyone. Anyone can write an answer like that if the government doesn't want to do any surveillance. He doesn't want him in the D.A., he doesn't want him in court, he doesn't want him in banks, he doesn't want him anywhere. You only come to the National Assembly for money. So how much more for the trial, how much more for the banking system, how much more about who I don't know about. And this is an unsustainable situation. And if, honourable Members, you act in this way, but nothing shows that you will change this technology, then it will only be fairy tale lessons. We have come to the National Assembly to talk about the problems that we are trying to solve in order to make things better. Not so that a government representative comes when we alert him to problems, by having the judiciary determine or anyone there is no need for anything. But they don't do surveillance. There are many problems and many cases where there has been even a violation of constitutional rights in the judiciary, some of them have been found by the judiciary alone, some of them have been found by other instances, or by the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights, but there are no sanctions within the system. I wonder if one of us would make a minor mistake, if it was political and professional and I don't know how problematic it would be, and if it were because of a professional error, I should just go. That's probably what would have happened. In every healthy system, whether it be an economic, large or small society, this happens. Only within some systems in this country do there exist professional errors. There aren't many, but there are a few, and there's no one responsible for professional error. You're pleading for instant recovery, and in the meantime, someone lives a quarter of their lives somewhere, the best, no need. And unfortunately, the problem is that, within the judiciary, you are not able to answer specific cases and within the government, nor can you prevent indicative cases from occurring when a story is created and someone is penalized in one way or another. And once again, as long as he is the main person, that is to say, the Minister of Justice, someone who has violated the laws and the constitution, cannot be expected to have any audit, any serious control within the judicial system, because he has no personal personal credit to carry out such a task. As long as the government has such a minister in its composition, no measures can be expected from the government to improve anything in this area. That's impossible. If the President of the Government trusts the Minister of Justice, who has violated the eight laws that have violated the constitutions, by means of a document, then no concrete change can be expected from this government in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u171	The word is from a government representative. This is Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, in view of your implementation, I would like to start by saying that the Ministry of Justice has, in just the last two years, implemented 11 requests for judicial supervision, so that I will not burden you with numbers for many years. One at the District Court in Ljubljana, three at the District Court in Ljubljana, four requests for supervision of the judiciary in 2014, then 19 requests for review of the operations of the courts, three at the District Court in Ljubljana, etc., not to mention. These controls are carried out quite a bit. Every year. In the context of these judicial controls, wrong conduct has not been identified or, as I would say, incorrect conduct, which would mean essentially what is stated in the material, that a parallel system has been established according to the political line of allocation of cases. This too, although I am not my minister's lawyer, I think I respect him most deeply because of his past work and his way of doing it, that he violated eight laws as President of the KPK, is not accurate and true. Why not? I'll give you some content so the public won't get it wrong. You know that under the Court of Auditors Act, the audit refers to a certain period. And if during the period when the responsible person is the chairman of a body, the audit shall be carried out, he shall be the responsible person. However, the infringements identified for this controlled period may, and in the case of the KPK, have been caused in almost 80 % over the previous periods. The fact is that the Senate led by Mr Klemenčič has never been launched on its own in the past at the time of the KPK's existence, the Senate has never carried out an own-initiative order and an external audit has been carried out and the irregularities found have been resolved. So it's self-initiative. The Court of Auditors, which came after this audit, also addressed the periods relating to the periods already audited and remedial measures of the case, and therefore no corrective action has been proposed in the draft audit report of the Court of Auditors as this has already been remedied. However, it is a fact that errors have been identified. But these mistakes were — what? Contract concluded for the payment of electricity to the supplier in 2008. And since the account is in the 2011 revised period, it's a violation. This is essentially this truth and it's not as uniform or as simple as you want to present. I think that's incorrect. However, as regards our efforts to improve the situation in justice, I am convinced that the aim of all of us, not just you Members, absolutely also governments, is the executive branch of the government, and above all it is in the interests of the citizens, the people living in this country. See, these unpleasant truths, as you say, self-reflection in society is too small, and especially in some subsystems, when other, external observers or competent authorities point out that something is wrong, that it is bad or that it is very bad, these are important messages and is the question of how we respond. The fact is that these things and these lessons are based on some events that have been or have been accomplished in the past. For the future, however, this is the basis for us to strive to do something on such knowledge to improve or improve things. In six months, I have said this before, precisely because of the fact that things would be improved in the field of justice, we have already proposed a number of organisational, procedural and changes to the provisions of a material nature in individual laws. There were few: the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Free Legal Aid, the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Public Prosecutions. In the normative programme, we have the measures envisaged for this very purpose, as do you expect things to be improved, simplified and at the same time ensured that systems are more efficient, as well as self-regulation. It is important to be aware that we are talking about the third branch of power, and in democratic societies in establishing these relations, this must be taken into account. The easiest thing to do is to make sure that the Ministry of Justice supervises the work of the Supreme Court. Then we can say, let's accept that there will be work of the Constitutional Court. These things are not that simple, and it would be irresponsible to do so. As a result, I think it is right, and my expectation is that these discussions are justified, that there are also concrete indications, that what you have stated is that the Ministry of Justice does not want to do anything about them, that there are grounds. And as it is said, I repeat, we have responded absolutely immediately with due diligence, self-initiative, called the Supreme Court, obtained data. And we're sure that they're right, they're quality, they're real, and they're basically degraded. You just don't believe it, you don't accept it, and you realize we're not ready to do anything. Simply what is possible and what is right in this case has been done. And it turned out that the evidence was unfounded. It's so simple to know. However, if there are any other data, the grounds that justify these findings being true, that there is a parallel system, I, when I listen when I say this, go straight up, a parallel system in the Slovenian judiciary, where matters are assigned along the political lines. See if any other information, no system, no supervision in the last ten years, here a colleague in this area is working long hours, even during the time of your governments, none of this, in the framework of regular controls, judicial administration, judicial administration, court operations has discovered or indicated anything like this. Now we have an eyewitness here based on the Patrick case. The system responded within a legally permissible and foreseen framework. The result is that, for a large majority, including those responsible for not being misunderstood, in the executive branch of the Authority, I mentioned earlier the Council of Justice, which, by law, has the right and the duty of the Ministry of Justice to react with initiative and to call on the Supreme Court, no one sees sufficient grounds in this to act. The report of the Supreme Court seems comprehensive, thorough. The Secretary-General of the Supreme Court has made a very detailed description of the case that is exposed to this material as to how the assignment and pre-delegation took place. I see no reasonable basis for doubting that this is true, because there is simply no data. And if you just can't face it or accept it, I can't help it. However, if there is any tangible information, the fact that it is of such quality that it excuses the suspicion that the evidence is justified will certainly react to the first. You can be sure of that. And relay it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u173	Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. As regards the findings of the Court of Auditors, they relate exclusively to the period during which Mr Klemenčič led the Senate. If this was not as I said, then it would be said that during that period of the audit, Mr Drago Kos, Senate of KPK, led and continued from there, Mr Goran Klemenčič. This is what the Court of Auditors reports look like. So what you said doesn't hold. Infringements relate exclusively to the mandate of the current minister, your minister and nothing else. If he was involved in a serious business in the KPK Senate, he might also be able to determine what legal basis he is paying for. This was from a supervisor who is for transparency, honesty and so on and so on, at least to be expected. But it is difficult for a person who has not reported his or her property or relatives or who has entered his or her house’s records, as such people see only errors in all others. As far as surveillance is concerned. You're saying that none of the judicial systems see a sufficient basis for control to be done. You must see it, the government, the minister. The system inside will be completely protected because none of the systems can handle any view from the outside. That's the main problem. And it is the task of the Minister to ensure this and, on this basis, also to draw up a report. There's no other way. Expecting someone to do something about themselves is irrelevant. And this is your responsibility and this coalition. As far as this list of laws is concerned, the four were recommendations by GRECA, which are probably the only legal recommendations we have in Europe, and everyone else has them as recommendations. Of the judicial changes that would have a significant impact on the functioning of the system, you have not proposed almost nothing yet. Just maybe make someone a problem with that. Otherwise, with the recommendations of GRECA, which you have enacted in four or five laws, you will not change anything. Unless you do controls, audits and so on and on, and on this basis also implement measures within the policies that you will propose, and also require the judicial branch of the government to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u175	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor, then a government representative should be prepared if he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u176	President, thank you so much for your word. Today, somehow at the conclusion of the debate, I have to say that I somehow admire all those who have tried to defend what is indisputable. This is to find the substantive reasons why these recommendations would not be accepted. They're just not there. More! I believe that all those who somehow want to help their fellow citizens by not discussing the judiciary and the judiciary would never accept any recommendation that would in some way help to remove any doubts about the independence of our judicial system and, in this case, the courts, you are doing a bear service. In this way, you only strengthen the dissatisfaction of the justice system. And that's how it's gonna be if we don't actually get to the bottom of it once. Dear Secretary of State, in some way you've been holding back from making some kind of request, calling for clarification, getting an answer that we somehow got, too. And for you, the matter is over. I'm going to repeat that parable with the hen again. So, you asked a chicken thief who steals chickens in a henhouse, you believed them, but you didn't use it to look into a henhouse by law, what's actually going on there. That's a fact. And what we have somehow attached to your recommendation is not enough. I believe you wouldn't be satisfied with five more similar matters. I wouldn't, because that's what you decided. In doing so, you are so arrogant that you say that anyone who thinks anything is wrong can initiate appropriate procedures. If you continue to do so, I suppose tomorrow the government or your ministry will no longer propose any law. You're going to propose to citizens that they collect 5,000 signatures and file what they think is necessary. That's how it goes, and that's how it's done. There was a lot of talk about political accounting. It's constantly happening that someone just wants a political account. Then you start your discussions with Patria. Why? Today, with recommendations, we simply wanted to object to the fact that the matter would come to an end, doubting that there was a violation of the Constitution, the legislation and the judiciary in our courts. And you agreed to the Patricia case. But if I pull over on Patrio on my own, I'm actually wondering who's more political here now. We listened, and there was a similar debate on the committee, because maybe everything here is not as good as it should be, but because it's in the middle of Patrio, and it's not. That's kind of what it was called. And last but not least today, because there is a case that is supposed to be happening, even in Patricia’s case, the matter is unacceptable. Those of you talking about first-class and second-class citizens, you're right. Someone who has been convicted in the Patria case does not, in your opinion, have the same rights as other citizens. Because it's a Patricia thing, you say no, and that's not a problem, and you don't give up here. Why?Oh, my God! What are you afraid of?Oh, my God! Right here, you guys should be the loudest to put an end to any dilemma. But your decisions merely confirm this dilemma or step up. Not least, you know, in this case, we're talking about a legal judge. And exactly if there's been a mistake in one thing, then everyone else is wrong. And then there can be a rapid series of citizens and citizens who have been violated constitutional rights. And yet you don't want to get to the bottom of it. You spoke of Mr Janko Marinko as Secretary-General. That's not true. Remember my question, because we were talking about the so-called parallel system that was supposed to be happening. And this one is supposed to work on the day that Patrio and the others came to court. I asked you how many cases come to court after 3 p.m. via couriers and not as usual via mail. We didn't get that answer. I doubt that the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court knew this information, given that he knew what we were going to deal with. For me, it's just one more doubt. Previously it was said by Mrs Muršič that we somehow want to get into other waters. Yeah, how? Then I look at the magnetogram, and the lady has almost all the time dedicated herself to the case of Patrio and how things happen in our country only because somehow the matter is connected with the biggest opposition leader. That's funny. In doing so, she is disturbed by the fact that we are opening up the issues, although she is itself the president of the Justice Committee, who should be most called on to clarify matters. I think my time is running out, so I'm just gonna say one more word. It is unacceptable that we keep talking about not being busy or discussing [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u177	Now Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It is good that I am last to be able to respond in some appropriate way to some of the things that have been going on for the last few minutes. Yes, Secretary of State, a little more accurate. If I was 35 years ago, I'd, you know, you know what happened. I didn't say you had to oversee the Supreme Court. The Justice Department, or the Ministry of Justice, part of the government cannot control the judiciary. However, it can supervise the execution of business in that part that is already under control in district, district and higher courts. That's what I'm talking about. And why don't you want to? I don't know. You know the answer. Me, too. Because that's how it suits you. Look, you've said that many of the controls that have been going on in recent years haven't found out. See, the system can stay for another 20 years and no one will be able to determine for the next 20 years, no control. Why not? I have to show it so plastic that people understand. See, if you have here files coming to the Supreme Court, and here is a list of Supreme Judges who have to be assigned by law, constitution and court order, then the matter is perfectly clear, completely clear. V.C.'s publisher has to do what? If he receives one file, he must write it down immediately if he receives two files he must file them in alphabetical order and write them down immediately if he gets 100 and the same. But he can't stack them up until 15 hours, which he's doing now, and then order, "Send me a file x y!" Ah, and the x-y file comes in alphabetical order here. Why? To get the judge she wants or as Mr Maslesha ordered. And then it falls off the e-mail. And here everything is legal. Everything's going fine here. And if you look at those papers, you won't find anything. You know exactly how controls work, you've been working on these things yourself, no problem. And we might find out if we had the right conversations with people. That's not how they interviewed you. You're talking about the fact that the Council of Justice didn't find anything. Yes, dear God! We'll go back to those types of police. If we have a police officer at the border cashing money from the one who enforces illegals and the system runs, just like it runs until they get it. Then it is perfectly clear that there will be no harm in investigating each other and overseeing each other. Someone else has to cut it. If you think the President of the Council is going to do anything, of course you're doing something stupid. The President of the Council of Justice will not intervene, as the judge to whom Mr Maslesha is in charge. As soon as he ceases to be president of the Council of Justice, he will also go to his boss. And now you think he'll oversee his ex-boss and future boss. Oh, no, that's not working! You know that's not gonna work. You said, I must say, I laughed when you said you had deep respect for Mr Klemenčič. Yeah, I would, too, if I were you. Why? Look, Mr. Secretary of State, you are the author of the KPK report. You wrote it, and now we're assigning it to the three of us on a formal basis. You're the author. Then one day you said goodbye, you stood in front of the cameras, and you said, "Citizens, goodbye, we're going! Okay. Now you're back, back at the same company. Because you're all the same three there, all three of you who were on KPK, are now at the Justice Department. That Mr Praprotnik went to the administration of the Ljubljana Bank, which he investigated and never found anything. On purpose, of course. And he's sitting there today. We're having a good time! I also think that you can thank him and that you can cooperate well. Yeah, that'll be fine. But the essence of our message today is — in what? We wanted to make it very clear and one of you said that nothing could be proved that we had no evidence and so on. Yes, we do! We do, Boris Rozman, the supreme judge who said that in writing. He wrote that this is happening in the Supreme Court. What else do we have? We have a list of the day from which it is clear that the case of Patricia came up at 3:30 p.m. That file's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone. Why? Yeah, 'cause every perp must be destroying his tracks. Yeah, how's that? He's not there anymore. He's still in the district court. There's a writer who works there, and she can't be bought for gifts, but she's doing the right thing. And she has a copy of the letter, which shows that at 3:30 p.m. 6. and that it was subsequently inserted into the system that I previously showed. And it was pre-arranged and stipulated that the matter would come to Mrs Tratnik. That's what the scribes know, actually, that's what the lead writer V.C. knows. The bosses don't know anything, and Mr. Pogačnik doesn't know anything, at least I suppose that's what it looks like. But they're chat rooms, they'd be told by military officers who do things, officials who just work on orders from senior officials. Then everything will be rounded up between Mrs Tratnik, Mrs Žalik and Mr Masleša and V.C. and you will get a list from which you say everything is fine. Catastrophe. You said something else that Mr Marinko, Secretary-General of the Supreme Court, explained everything. I don't know, yeah, he's in on this. How do you ask him about this now? Because he's a participant, he's been scrambling V.C., and he brought her up from the floor, and he set her up for a much bigger salary. Now he's recruiting another one. Maybe he's been scrambling, I don't know. The procedures are running these days. And look, now you're saying that he's given a satisfactory explanation. It's the exact same thing as having a thief break into a store with all the marmalade up there and saying he wasn't stealing jam. Yeah. And you say he satisfactorily explained that he didn't steal jam. Yeah, where are you?Oh, my God! It can't be like that. It doesn't have to be that way! But it's so easy. This is how the system can function, because it also makes sense that the system works that way, because the left-hand political option corresponds to it. This left policy option scaffolded the President we have in 2010. This left political option in the image of a lady from SD, I spoke about her this morning, Beblereva, told me who could be the President of the Supreme Court. There were 29 members of the SD sitting on the other side and they said that the President of the Supreme Court cannot be a man who can speak three foreign languages and speak them actively, he has in Cobiss a few sheets of scientific research and similar matters, the President of the National Assembly knows this well, and you do, I believe. But since he was in the Senate that tried Paul Rupar, he cannot be president of the Supreme Court. Because Rupar was forgiven. No matter how Mr. Shorley voted, because we don't know it because it's classified. However, the President of the Supreme Court, a man who is evident — as Judge Zbez, who wrote about it, wrote about it by some other people — participated in the verification of the killings that he threw on the table, and said JLA would beat Slovenia. See, that's fine. But at the same time, of course, this man serves the left political option. If I am still going to Mr Zorčič, who explained this matter well this morning, and Mrs Murgel also says that this has been resolved, this has been resolved. The judicial system is listed by correcting all its errors. However, if this does not work in Slovenia, we still have Strasbourg. So the situation is perfect. Bravo! Yeah, it's not like that. It's not like that. By this logic and by the logic of Mr. Zorčič, I think I said the name, he talked about it earlier, the left political option in cooperation with the judiciary – there are two men there, one is the prosecutor, one is the supreme judge – in fact he does – what? All that is the opposition or at least those chiefs of the opposition, is what you do, you accuse him of some crime, you convict him, you send him to the Age, and the Constitutional Judges will fix it. But if it's not those who are going to be re-elections, which is also possible, then it's going to be fixed in Strasbourg. All is well, there is no problem in the legal system and the judicial system of the Republic of Slovenia. Yeah, shit! What about the 2008 elections? What about the 2011 elections? What about the 2014 elections? When's the next one, I don't know. When these opposition people are likely to expand, they are unable to participate actively, normally, and equally in the elections. And now you're saying there's nothing wrong with the judicial system. It's not all right. The disaster is in the judicial system. That's not how it works. Other systems don't work like that either. A worker in the New Town of Revoz, who will make mistakes on the running lane, will be fired. Maybe he's warned first, then he's paid a little bit down, and then he's fired. After all, we have come so far in health care that today there is some responsibility, I will say, but here and there a doctor lands in court and in prison. Yeah, what about in court? But is anything allowed in court? Apparently, you think it's because the judicial system fixes everything if not for Strasbourg to fix it. But that's not true, in the judicial system, when something really bad happens, as it is now with that order of inquiry in the National Assembly, and by the way, someone from, I think the journalist Slovenian News, me and the President of the National Assembly has labeled us as those against the investigations in the National Assembly – by the way, I am not the president, because the law is what it is. And now, of course, the situation cannot be different. And then that judge who was tweeting a little bit there, and now he's quit. Yeah, well, what do you think's gonna happen to him? Can we guess three times and find out for the first time? We can also sing as a singing choir, what it will become. A lawyer. Yeah, what else?Oh, my God! And now you're saying everything's fine with the judicial system. It's okay. But on the other hand, we have a prosecutor, and there's too much "palamudil" in Baricevic, and he's already in suspension. Look, let me finish or I'll bring this matter to a close. Our purpose was very clear, and our goal was very clear. On the basis of the case of Judge Borivo Rozman, on the basis of the case of Patrio, we had access here. Of course we had access to the data here. But these same violations as they were in the Parria case, they're on the same day, that's 20. I can't give you a name, otherwise you'll say you're going to press charges. Mr. L. S.H.I.E.L.D., the same violation happened to him. Mr M. M., the same violation has occurred to me and T. S. Members have access to the data, you have to protect them, journalists as well as you know. The same violations occurred on the same day to all these people as they did in the Patricia case. And now you're saying that Mr. Marinko has explained everything. Hands in the marmalade, isn't it? You asked the wrong question. We Wanted – What? We only wanted one thing: the Ministry of Justice to exercise control. That's all we wanted. And not only that. We said: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government or the Ministry of Justice to exercise control. That's all we said. Is this, tell me, some kind of rape against the judiciary? No, I don't. Then the Legislative Service said and said that they could not directly do this control because they did not have that authority, they could only lower, not the Supreme Court. Then it would be logical, Secretary of State, for you to come by law and enforce this authority. Legalize! Not that you will oversee the work of the Supreme Court, but that you will do business with the files. But you said no to everything. See you next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u179	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. No, no, no. Thank you. On this basis, I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u180	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft toll law in the context of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 65. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 13. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 16. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 41. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 46. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 49. Mr Zvonko Lah, pardon, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you, Madam President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support our amendment to Article 49. Also a suggestion by the economy, from the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia, we have received the suggestion that the penalties for Slovenian carriers are disproportionately high, even in the light of the standard we have in the Republic of Slovenia, and also in relation to neighbouring countries of the Republic of Slovenia. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are absolutely for the fines of offenders, but the fines should be appropriate and proportionate both to the offence and to the other neighbouring countries. We propose that you support a 20% reduction in road transport penalties.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u182	We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 49. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 50. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u183	We are also proposing, in Article 50, as well as in the preceding article, a 20% reduction in penalties for legal persons who actually commit infringements relating to to toll users, for example, by misentry into the toll area. In short, offences that are of minor importance are also disproportionately disproportionate to other comparable neighbours, that is to say with the countries of our neighbours, and are also disproportionately high according to the standard and also the situation of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. We propose that these penalties for users of transport devices be reduced by 20%.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-25-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u184	We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 50. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 48. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the draft law already proposed in the introductory explanation that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 16. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Friday, 27. 3. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, as well as on recording equipment in road transport following a regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, ECO FUND III. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the second reading, the amendment at the assembly meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Montenegro on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I interrupt the sixth session of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Friday, 27. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Members and members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons are advised that the 10th urgent meeting of the Committee will begin in 15 minutes in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič, which is at 18.20.
