ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jožef Horvat by 3 p.m. and Dr Matthew T. Vatovec. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, and the Minister of Defence, Janko Vebra, to the 1st item of the agenda, Minister of Education, Science and Sport mags. Klavdijo Markež on the 2nd item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to the two agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday, 9 April 2015, with a reference to the meeting. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with paragraph 64. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the agenda of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the Government's Notice of the Magi's withdrawal. Klaudije Markež, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. On 2 April 2015, the President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, informed the National Assembly that he was a mag. Klaudija Markež resigned from her post as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. In this regard, the National Assembly finds, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is a mag. Claudius Markež ceased to serve as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. On 2 April 2015, the President of the Government informed the National Assembly that, pending the appointment of the new Minister of Education, Science and Sport, he would be acting on his own. In view of this, the National Assembly concludes: First, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of Magi. Ms Klaudija Markež, acting as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, resumes her post today. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of the European Union, as of today, he shall cease to serve as a Member of the Council, Mr Dušan Radič, acting instead of a Magi. Claudius Markež at the time she served as Minister. At this time, I thank Dusan Radič for his work in the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the MPs of the National Assembly of Mags. Claudius Markež In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am a member of the Magi. By letter of 2 April 2015, Klaudija Markež notified in writing that she had resigned from her post. I'm guessing it's a mag. In accordance with the sixth subparagraph of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the term of office of the Member shall expire on 9 April 2015. On this basis, I will ask the State Election Commission to inform the National Assembly which candidate or candidate will become, or become, a Member or Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Magi in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. Claudius Markež, whose term of office expires today. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Commission of Elections will report its findings to the National Assembly. Dear colleague, I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish her the best in her further work. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's a proposal for the resolution of Mr. Janek Weber, Secretary of Defense. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, proposed to the National Assembly on 31 March 2015 that Mr Janko Vebra be relieved of his duties as Minister of Defence. Before I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, I would like to remind all speakers that you are paying attention to the fact that in the opening presentations, presentations of the views of the groups of Members or in your deliberations, you do not raise questions about the information of a confidential nature protected by law. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I have sent you a proposal for the discharge of Mr Janko Vebra, Minister of Defence. In order to understand this proposal, I will briefly explain to you the reasons and circumstances that I had to take into account in my decision. I will explain my reasons to you and to the public in more detail also in the course of the sitting and during the day. As you know, in early March, the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Committee carried out control of the work of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence, and I will continue to use the ODS. On the basis of the findings of controls and following the written explanation received by the Director-General of the OLA, the Parliamentary Supervisors decided that the OPCW had exceeded its legal powers. It followed the Minister's explanation of the media, without informing me of what was happening and what was so severe about it at any time and in any way. So the situation arose that I learned about these events from the media. Following the Minister's further clarification to the public and members of the Parliamentary Committee on Defence has left me in public and doubt, mainly because of the Minister's opposing claims. In fact, the Minister and the Director-General of the Parliamentary Commission argued firstly that the mandate of the Minister was set orally, followed by the oral reporting of the competent ODS following their claims. Following the cancellation of the degree of secrecy on the material which the Minister tried to include in the government procedure on 13 November last year unannounced and uncoordinated, the Minister of Public Affairs presented a document on the provision of quality services to Telekom Slovenije for the operation of the defence system and the system of protection against natural and other disasters. I must point out that this revealed the secret information contained in the Government Decision, where Telekom is on the list of state critical infrastructure companies. However, the Minister's arguments on lawful and responsible conduct were soon later denied by the media with a warning that the document was dated the day before the Minister's alleged assignment of the ODS. This led to suspicion in the public that it had come from the Minister for the attempt to mislead the public and the parliamentary supervisory commission. The unfortunate attempt to clarify the ODS procedure and the content of the document produced in the civil part of the Ministry have also raised doubts in both me and the public, allowing additional suspicions to be raised about the justification for the activation of the ODS, further, to the legality of its operation in this matter, as well as for the very purpose of producing an analysis by the ODS, as explained by the Minister. Before continuing to define the new documents that had emerged, even though the Minister argued that they did not exist at all, with regard to the material that the Minister had tried to include in the government meeting and, in these weeks, cancelled the level of secrecy, I would explain that, at the very beginning of the 9th regular meeting of the Government on 13 November 2014, the Minister announced at the point of adoption of the agenda that "he had prepared the material in the form of information on the provision of the quality of Telecom services for the defence system and protection against natural disasters". As this material was not prepared in accordance with the procedure for the preparation of government materials, this material was also not included on the agenda of that November meeting. I strongly reject the public indications and statements made by some that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I have prevented the debate on this subject and have hampered the efforts and concerns of the defence of the country. On the contrary, I told Minister Webro that the Government would also deal with this material when it is adequately complemented and inter-resorted and is thus placed on the agenda of the Government's meeting. The latter was also documented in the record of the government meeting. I must also point out that, following the events, the mandate of the ODS was determined by the Minister directly after the government's said meeting, at which the Minister did not in any way mention his purpose nor did he inform me or the Government of that later. It is particularly important that the Minister's justification for the need to deal with the material did not indicate to the least that there was a direct threat to the defence interests of the State, the Slovenian Army or the Ministry by intelligence services of military organisations or other bodies and organisations. From this meeting of the Government to this day, the Minister has never proposed any material or document in relation to this matter to me or the Government. It also follows that the findings of the OPCW certainly did not reveal the circumstances of the activities of the intelligence services, which would suggest a threat to the defence interest of the State, the Slovenian Armed Forces or the Ministry. Why am I exposing this? I will explain this in more detail later in the work, where I will also explain the legal absence of the ODS in question. Before that, I should say that, for the purposes of his explanation, the Minister then revealed an additional document, which proved not only to be completely non-professional, because he does not bear either the date or the sign number, but also the highly controversial one. The document has a rather significant title for the sale of Telekom Slovenije. Now that the document has been published, you know for yourself that the document also bears a code of secrecy and this is confidential, and it must be explained first that such a code under the Secret Data Act is never used on a document that was made up of only public resources, as the Minister claims. It should be understood that the classification mark indicates that the document was intended for the record of confidential data. The fact that the document does not contain such data, as has been shown since its publication, raises many other questions. There is no logical explanation as to why, in the case of the intelligence or non-intelligence part of the OPC, they would limit in advance the operation only to publicly available resources. The ODS must always use all available resources in order to carry out its tasks properly and therefore have its powers. Furthermore, the argument that no specific forms of data collection and other operating methods have been used does not mean that the method of data collection using partner services, data collection on the ground and the use of available data from databases have also been used. At least it is unprofessional that there is not a single entry in all the known documentation where the ODS approach to the performance of this task would be mentioned or defined. Thus, there remains a reasonable suspicion that the ODS has performed the task as well as all others, i.e. with all available resources. The Minister ordered the analysis of the whole OPCW, i.e. all three of his sectors. However, the problem is that the intelligence work must not work at all on the ground of the Republic of Slovenia since, in accordance with Article 32 of the Law on the Defence of Intelligence, it is carried out outside the country. Therefore, the intelligence component of the OAS may collect security, political and military information that is relevant to our defence system only abroad, and in no way shall the intelligence part of the ODS ever and in no way be used for such a task as ordered by the Minister. More importantly, the content of this document, which the Minister claims to explain the full background and legitimacy of his conduct and the work of the OPCW, does not reflect the potential activities of foreign intelligence services which would undermine the defence interests of the State, the Slovenian Army or the Ministry, which would justify intelligence or counter-intelligence based on Article 32 of the Defence Act, as well as the lawfulness of the OPC's conduct, are justified both by its Director-General and by Minister Weber. It is also known that the sale of a company is a civil legal procedure between the parties, with no regulatory regime in Slovenia requiring the collection, documentation or analysis of data in the process of selling companies with the intelligence or anti-intelligence work of the OCS. I estimate that the professional work of this service should not allow such a talkative address, i.e. the Sale of Telekom Slovenije, to be found on documents of the intelligence and anti-intelligence sector of the OCS, unless the service actually carried out legal work and had the appropriate reasons for doing so in the operation of foreign military intelligence services entrusted with the threat of the defence interest of the State, the Slovenian Army or the Ministry. However, I repeat that I have never been informed of the existence of such threats, and in such serious cases the circumstances and facts described leave too much doubt that they could all be tolerated as a mere slip. It is very unusual that, even after my request by the Minister to further substantiate the legal basis, both the Minister and the Director-General of the OMC continue to refer to the provisions of Article 32 of the Defence Act as the legal basis for the requested analysis, when this Article provides for the intelligence and counterintelligence of the service. I therefore stress here that the legal provisions must be read in full, namely that checking the quality of market services must not in any way be the content of the intelligence or counterintelligence of the military secret service without a clear threat to the active functioning of foreign intelligence services. In doing so, the Minister refers to the legal opinion drawn up by legal experts Dr Igor Kaucič and Dr Rajko Pirnat, and I have requested this opinion from both of them after finding the findings of the parliamentary commission. It should be pointed out that those lawyers did not provide a definitive reply on the legality of the OMC's activities in question, but merely highlighted the frameworks in which the legality of the operation can be assessed. On the basis of the insight into all the documentation and the other explanations I had at my disposal, of course, the lawyers mentioned did not have all this at their disposal, I must make it clear here in the National Assembly that the frameworks set out by both legal experts have not been met to justify the legality of the OPC. In particular, in order to carry out the mandate referred to in the third indent of Article 32(1) of the Defence Act, referred to by the Minister, there must be a real existing activity of foreign intelligence organisations and other organisations which are in fact jeopardising the defence interests of the State, the Slovenian Army or the Ministry. In the documentation submitted by the Minister, or in any other known document or notice, there are no specified activities of such services or organisations against which the activity of the ODS under consideration would be directed. The Minister thus ordered an analysis for which the ODS, i.e. the Military Intelligence Service, is not competent. In view of the absence of written traceability, i.e. the absence of the recording of the procedure, which the Minister was personally and objectively obliged to provide, the Minister himself will never be able to challenge suspicions of exceeding the powers or suspicions of unlawful operation. In view of the need for the precise, clear and specific legal basis required by the OPC for the performance of its tasks, the existence of this legal basis must be clearly and concretely demonstrated in each particular case. The Minister's interpretation of the legal basis is too broad, explaining that it falls within the scope of the task referred to in the third indent of Article 32(1) of the Defence Act and also an analysis of the consequences of the sale of a national operator to a foreign buyer for the performance of the ODS tasks. This means that, if we call it that, on the basis of this provision of the ODS Defence Act, such analysis must not be carried out or even carried out illegally. Even if the Minister had in mind an analysis of the implications for the internal functioning of the ODS, this internal action should be assessed on the basis of strict criteria to remove any doubt that it may not be an intelligence, counterintelligence or security task of the ODS within the meaning of Article 32 of the Defence Act. The criteria for which, according to the two legal professionals mentioned above, they must also be met, and cumulatively, have not been met. In view of the existing documentation, the fact that the activity itself has not already been dedicated to the internal organisation of the work of the OMC, as would be permissible in accordance with the opinion of the two legal professionals. In addition, there is no reliable evidence that specific ODS powers have also been used in this case or that data which are not only publicly available should also be verifiable in accordance with the opinion of both lawyers. It is therefore unacceptable that the procedures have been conducted in such a manner that they are not transparent and contrary to the principle of legal certainty, which requires predictability and reliability of the procedure. Allow me also to inform the Minister on his question of what I will do and what the Government will do to protect Slovenia's interests in the light of Telekom Slovenije's sales process, at this point, that the solution and identification of potential cybersecurity problems, as well as information and telecommunications content, are already being implemented in accordance with the decision of the previous governments and that this work continues in various working bodies already in this mandate. As my time is running out, I will conclude this basic presentation and present further arguments below. Above all, let me say that there is nothing that the Government has held that the government has done nothing or that it has not done its work. The fact is that the Government is concerned about the defence capacity of the State and is working in this area in the competent bodies through the competent ministries of all that is necessary and that, in this area, the legal area of telecommunications is also within the competence of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, as provided for by law. The Minister did not take this into account sufficiently, which I will explain later. Once again, let me say that everything I have said, including the latest ministerial message that he has informed me this week, is that a team of experts is to prepare an analysis on the crime of undermining defence measures in accordance with Article 366 of the Penal Code, placing them in an extremely unusual light. As it is said, I have not left any measure which could have an impact on the deterioration of the defence capacity of the state, nor did I advise or impose anything like this on anyone. If I conclude, for all the above reasons, I assess that the Minister is both subjective and objectively responsible for the illegal, incorrect and non-transparent functioning of the Ministry of Defence Intelligence. Therefore, you, honourable Members, will exercise your responsibility in this matter by today's decision. I am sure that you will inform the public by decision that we do not allow untransparent and illegal activities and the activation of secret services in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u3	I now give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, Minister for Defence, and he will also have two minutes to exceed. 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, President of the Government, colleagues and fellow ministers! In front of the National Assembly, we swore to respect the constitutional order, to follow our conscience and to work with all our strength for the welfare of Slovenia. We have been chosen by the people to care for their welfare and security. In accordance with this guide, I also conducted an evaluation of the impact of Telekom Slovenije's sales on the defence security system. By doing so, I fulfilled my duty as Secretary of Defense. In doing so, I acted legally and in a state-of-the-art way. I am pleased that both lawyers, Dr. Pirnat and Dr. Kaučič, who have had a look at all the documentation that exists in this case. It follows from the opinion that it is clear and solely the view that the Intelligence Security Service of the Ministry of Defence cannot be found to be unlawful and that it has not exceeded the powers or acted unlawfully in this regard if, of course, the analysis under consideration of the Security Intelligence Service is prepared for the purposes of the internal operation of this service and the criteria are taken into account, namely that the activity is intended solely for the internal organisation and operation of the Intelligence Security Service or the Minister, and that the special powers of the Security Intelligence Service and the database referred to in Article 36 of the Defence Act have been used, or previously collected, of the Intelligence Security Service have been used. This task cannot be performed by anyone other than the Intelligence Security Service. The Minister may always orally order an analysis to be carried out and may also be orally reported to him. Among the first, if you want, oral orders were also ordered to harmonise a regulation that will allow the continued use of Slovenian military and police helicopters for emergency medical care. This has saved lives, reduced the consequences of injuries, and saved the country a lot of money because it is the cheapest form of rescue. The creation of the modular capacity of the Slovenian army in the framework of protection and rescue, which has linked the technique and knowledge of members of the Slovenian Army, civil protection and firefighters, also proves that human security and property security has a priority in my operation. We can be proud of this capacity because people know that they will not be alone and leave behind all the often destructive forces of nature or other disasters. Multi-purpose military equipment is also the most rational form of rescue. The replacement of long-term vehicles, which pose a threat to users and inefficiency in intervention and high maintenance costs, is a response to the expectations of members of the Slovenian Army to ensure their safety and performance. The Falcon, which has disturbed the Slovenian public for years, has also received a new, humanitarian role for the transport of human organs that will save a certain life or make life easier for the sick. We have also given great attention to cooperation with the economy, which we wanted to open up to the markets of the Member States of NATO and the European Defence Agency. The response of the companies was exceptional. With this we wanted to increase employment and create greater economic growth. I'm glad we did all this in all six months. If you ask me today, I've done everything I wanted to do as a minister in my entire mandate. That's why I'm proud of what I've done, and obviously that's why I'm disturbing the government. With these measures, which were all orally ordered, we have followed the government's objective of reducing costs and increasing the efficiency of the ministry. So allow me, on this occasion, to sincerely thank my fellow workers for their dedicated work. This makes me feel as if in Slovenia it is disturbing if you are doing your job well. That's why I also understand the so-called Telekom affair as the means by which he wants to play me. Sadly, however, this means only the continuation of the disintegration of the Slovenian defence system. What does the Slovenian defence system actually include? In accordance with Article 3 of the Defence Act, defence consists of military and civil defence, which are inseparable in accordance with the fourth paragraph of this Article. For them, I stress, military and civil defence, the Ministry of Defence is legally responsible. Its powers shall be determined primarily by Articles 28 and 29 of the Defence Act. The Ministry of Defence is so responsible for security infrastructure, where besides telecommunications we consider transport infrastructure and key companies to supply the population and the armed forces in the war. In accordance with the law, for example, a second track should not be built on the Koper-Divač route, without prior evaluation of the safety aspect of construction, which can be extremely vulnerable, not only to the attempt of an enemy attack, but also to natural disasters. What does the collapse of the embankment mean on the course of Divac-Koper? It means at least one month's interruption of all traffic and bankruptcy, not only Luke Koper, but most Slovenian logistics. Is such a risk acceptable? Can we afford that? With the constant delay of construction, this can happen to us. Now let's go to the telecommunications area. The Slovenian army depends largely on the network of Slovenian Telekom. It is not just the daily communication of Slovenian Armed Forces units, but mainly the telecommunications connections of hidden sites important for the defence of the country. It is the war sites of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly, the cities of command, the mobilising chambers, the strategic warehouses, which will enable you, citizens and citizens, to survive even in the event of a possible war. Also because of this infrastructure built by the Slovenian authorities back in the time of the SFRJ and in which the former JLA did not have entry, we were able to win the war for Slovenia in 1991. Also due to these locations, the victims were inadequately smaller than they could have been. Also due to these locations, the long-standing conflict with the Slovenian people has not paid off. And you don't think it's just holes in the ground, bunkers that cost a few million dollars, it's the infrastructure that billions of dollars have been spent on. Billions of dollars. It's an infrastructure we can't afford anymore to work on. This is an infrastructure that represents one of the best-ordered areas of defence in Europe. All of these sites are led by energy and telecommunications water, which is linked to the infrastructure of Telekom Slovenije. When Telekom Slovenije is sold headlessly, you compromise all these locations. When a stranger gets into the hands of Telekom Slovenije, all of this becomes completely useless at the moment, because of course it is easy to detect them and also discover them at the moment he gets to own this company. It is therefore important that we be aware that there is a guardian in our legal order, that this does not happen. Without the Telekom Slovenije network, these locations cannot function. Before any sale, if it has to reach it, it is necessary to separate and connect this network. We need to know, however, that this is an investment worth hundreds of millions of euros that we do not have planned anywhere. I'll point that out. Before any sale, if it has to reach it, it is necessary to separate and connect this network. This network is crucial to the defence security of the Republic of Slovenia. If this is eliminated, I have no problem as Minister of Defence with how Telekom's sale process will proceed. But this is the key condition to which I point out that it must be fulfilled so that we do not reduce the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia. And that is all that is, honourable Members and Members. The decision on the sale of Telekom Slovenije, without assessing the financial and security consequences, constitutes a violation of the law and deception, not only of Members, but also of the Slovenian people. The decision to sell Telekom Slovenije in May 2013, I tell you from my own experience, was made without any security analysis or analysis of the financial implications. It's been a complete deceiving of Members of Parliament. Whether it was an act of intentional extradition in 2013 or merely for gross negligence or abandonment of due diligence, it is irrelevant if we correct this error before there is irreparable damage. And that's my chance. I do not want them to be in a situation like our neighbours, Croats, who suddenly realized that they no longer had any control over their defence system, that the German intelligence service also knew about every call the Prime Minister, ministers they called, when and what they said. They suddenly realized that the construction of a separate system would cost more than 100 million euros. That more than a hundred million damages due to higher prices and subsequent capital withdrawals, backlog in technological development, unnecessary dismissal of employees and destruction of the supply base are not even mentioned. If all of this is taken into account, the country of Croatia has gained nothing from the sale of Telekom. On the contrary, it is a serious remedial damage which will, of course, affect Croatia's security system and also Croatia's economic development. That the humiliation shown by German Chancellor Angela Merkel's attempt to put pressure on the construction of the Croatian state alternative network, because he could compete with the German monopoly, we do not speak. I ask you if the country in which the head of another country determines what is to be done and what is not to be built in the area of defence is even sovereign. Did the Slovenians fight for this in 1991? On the contrary, even though Switzerland is one of the most liberal countries in Europe, there are no marionettes. They only decide on their own behalf. They did not have any foreign Prime Minister in mind to tell them what they could invest. The Swiss have smoothly refused privatisation or a loss of control over Swissco’s state operator. The reasons are economic development and, above all, security. Why can't Slovenians at least be equal to Switzerland in this regard? The Swiss case shows that the way through the national telecommunications operator is safer and probably cheaper. Why? Because, otherwise, the State must provide an alternative physical network. It is a significant investment that, of course, I do not even mention maintenance costs. Some mention that the state can provide security through encrypted connections, through commercial lines. I would point out that NATO standards stipulate that communication of content with a certain degree of secrecy should not be carried out through foreign commercial networks, irrespective of the type and strength of cryptographic techniques used. The control of the physical network has been and is an absolute prerequisite for any confidential military communication. It is not a matter for the Ministry of Defence to decide which model the State will choose, but it is certainly not only its right, but also under the law the duty for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly and not least to present to the citizens the security risks and costs in one or another case. That's all I had in mind and the purpose of my operation at the Ministry of Defence. Today, I find that the reason for my relief is not because I acted unlawfully, I acted legally. I did state-of-the-art work. The reason for the Prime Minister's proposal for my discharge is only my clear position that the most important companies in Slovenia that are important for the security of the Republic of Slovenia should not be sold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u6	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We live in a late modern society characterised by a transition, a transition from one economic system to another economic system. A political transition from a single-party system to a democratic society and a transition in migration flows. All of this is reflected in society, as we are witnessing new developments in modern security and new threats. This is shown in world governance in creating fear and instituting measures to prevent this fear. This then reflects in governments that we are moving to a penal society where we are saving everything by law, and these laws are, as we can see, too many, we do not know how to implement and are inconsistent with each other. The fourth element is that we are in the age of digitisation, informationisation, where everything that is happening is immediately available online and also abuses are readily available. All of this points to the problem that we are dealing with today, and what is the subject of today's debate is reflected in all these modern processes. The aspects of this problem are full. Let us first look at the legal aspect. Lawyers, of course, will not be united. We have a whole bunch of legal opinions, we can order other legal opinions, and we will look again at the court, where the judges will have to find this solution. If we look at it differently, laws are read on the line, not in the spirit and meaning of the law, where solutions would be found. If we look at the very documents that are the subject of today's debate, we see that they are inconsistent, unconstitutional, and here are these material evidences that would give rise to our judgments in this case. But we haven't touched the personal evidence yet. But there are even more problems about reality and proof. I myself miss that the service responsible, as well as the Parliamentary Commission, would somehow deal with this personal evidence at all. What would we then find if we saw that most of the requirements came out orally? If I go further, from the perspective of economists, we could see that the final product is all loss of the company's price that we are selling. Economists, of course, only care about the price at the final stage. The way security and intelligence services work is not supposed to be this, but they're supposed to be looking after security. The work related to the economy is the work of another service, especially the Owl. In modern society, however, we can also know that larger intelligence services today have multinationals. In human rights, I am not concerned about police, SOVE and other services, as this is regulated by law. The key interventions are those that we cannot regulate legally at all, and we ourselves have seen more than once that multinationals are in control of this business. If we look at the views of the political scientists, we can say that the political scientists are interested in the division of power. And here is a key committee of parliament that oversees the work of these intelligence services. What is the answer? The answer is to come back to that first element, to fear. It is trying to discredit and prevent the work of the parliamentary commission with threats, with fear. If we move forward, we can find that intelligence is the second oldest trade in the world. I still stand by and agree with the statement that today there is no data that we cannot obtain in any way or in any other way. If we look at what the defensemen will say. The defence attorneys are particularly interested in the defence security of the state. They are dealing with this segment and the case in question is increasingly showing that the services were dealing with another segment which is not directly linked to the defence security of the state. In doing so, we often ignore the fact that we are today discussing the powers of the service and whether these powers have been exceeded, but we are not interested in privatisation at this time. This is the subject of other discussions. If I give you another look at the pronouns. They deal with the technique, the tactics of the work of the services that are competent; whether these services are occupied by competent people; or whether these services exercise powers as they are charged; or exceed legislation. And this is where we'll find a whole bunch of irregularities. I have repeatedly pointed out the expertise of staff in these services. The analysis of the documents shows that this expertise has been repeatedly neglected. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of so-called Whistleblowers or those who scream at the whistle and warn of errors. These are often the subject of analyses and investigations of these services and investigations. You're always looking for the one who put the data out, not the one who made the mistake. We must separate, of course, between the one who warns of error and the one who betrays some secrecy. Those who warn of a mistake must be protected. If I sum it up, I would find all the elements that point to fear, to promote fear and thereby increase the powers of the service, as well as to threaten those who are trying to detect such mistakes, especially to the committee of our Parliament. And fear of strangers. If we are part of the European Union, I do not know why we are afraid of foreigners. As a second element, I could point out trust. Trust in the work of institutions is crucial. We need to trust institutions – the police, the Owl, the Military Intelligence Service – and this trust has been broken. The very expertise of the institutions. According to a non-professional analysis of documents, these documents are highly unprofessional, and the service has also reacted unprofessionally, for the one who runs the office must first warn the minister or his talent that something cannot be done by law and that it is a violation of the law. And the key issue is the tactfulness of a certain minister's work. The Minister must act tactfully, in the interests of the State and in the well-being of his institution, his people, because the institution is known by its members. In view of the above, I could conclude that the appearance of impartiality, in view of the indemnity and appearance of the abuse of an institution in its own interest or the interest of a group is being created. In view of the above, the SMC Group proposes to the Minister to resign, but if he does not resign, the parliamentary group supports the Prime Minister's proposal to dismiss the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to gather both on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, which I am leading in this Parliament. Why we shouldn't have gotten so much time, it's probably clear and obvious to everyone today. The fact is that the event that brought this meeting together is extremely serious. This is the fundamental question facing every democracy: Who controls the overseers? On the other hand, it must be said that there is also one shade of humor, for you will admit that it is somewhat funny, that the government that has placed in its origin a high respect for ethics, morals and law, in the first year of its existence, has come up with precisely these three points, namely, respect for ethics, morals and rights, with which it actually has more problems than all of the government's history combined. It is understood that the same criteria should apply to all, but ask yourself also at this point, because this is what needs to be understood, for the conduct of at least one person in this Chamber, whether the same criteria have always been respected. Today, this meeting is called for the findings and successful work of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, but some other state institutions have also found that in the past it has violated the laws and even threatened human rights or the Constitution, the constitutional order. For Mr Klemenčič, for example, this was found by the Court of Auditors, then there was another judgment in one court, but the Prime Minister did not then propose his replacement. But he was proposing to replace Minister Weber. Which, of course, we understand, but these double criteria then open up many questions, because then it becomes excessive, including the unreasonable reaction of Minister Vebra to some extent understandable. But this only explains, and in no way does Minister Vebra justify it, because the violation of the law and the violation of the mandate here were unequivocal and obvious. Unscrupulous, unprofessional conduct also brought fire to the oil itself at the Ministry. You all know that at the end of the day, some unmarked material appeared, as the Prime Minister of the Government had said before, just before the Defence Committee meeting, when anything written about the privatisation of Telekom had previously been denied in writing. If this has been silent to the Commission in the exercise of control, because this has been explicitly asked there, nor has this been explained, but even explicitly denied in the written material for which the Ministry had had nine days since that unannounced supervision until the meeting of our Commission. Then you know it's a fraud and a misappropriation of a position, an abuse of a function, which could be a crime. That's what other authorities decide, but it's easy. However, if this material appears subsequently because it is unmarked, then, of course, the idea of falsifying documents can also be justified. But forging documents is a crime again. That's a pretty awkward thing to do. As it is said, this proposal to replace Minister Veber is therefore the only correct one. In any other case, it should also be consistent. The opinion of those two lawyers who tried to defend this action is rather a fine proof of the state of Slovenian law that when there is enough money in the game, you can legally get any opinion or legal opinion of any argument, rather than proof of any innocence. When it comes to the argument that the powers to be written were doubtless exceeded, that is to say clearly verifiable form, used something that obviously does not apply, then I can only say that I fully agree with the argument of the President of the Government. There is probably no doubt here that there has been a severe excess of powers and that this entails a personal and objective responsibility that needs to be exercised in two ways. So, first of all, by identifying political responsibility, perhaps later also by identifying another responsibility, which I have already said a few words about. And the reaction to that by the minister is, excuse me, incomprehensible. In democracy, it is directly unacceptable that the one who is controlled then tries to intimidate the one who is the only one who is specifically appointed to control it. Intelligence and security services have special methods and resources, they have special powers, but in a democratic country they also have very clear and unequivocal boundaries, beyond which they must never go. One of the borders, which is not only unequivocally recorded in the legal acts of the State of Slovenia, has also evolved into a long-standing legal practice, which has been very sharp and consistent in this area also because of the personality of some defence ministers who have been in this situation in the past, as you all know, has shown and witnessed the following. In no case does the Ministry of Defence Intelligence and Security Service have the right to intervene in the civil sphere in the territory of the State of Slovenia. That's exactly what happened in this case. The Minister ordered an assessment of the ownership of Telekom and the consequences of this, both positive and negative, and only further to this same decision of orders in terms of, if anything affects security and so on, that I will not quote the entire conclusion now. If there was any threat by foreign intelligence services, it should inform the President of the Government and only then have the right to act, but not in the territory of the State of Slovenia. In the territory of the State of Slovenia, only Owl and the criminal police or police have such powers in those cases governed by the law. But in this case, Owl had nothing to do with it. Everything that was done was done at the Ministry of Defence. Of course, such conduct is obviously politically motivated. It can't be any different either. The media spin, which is now being run by the minister all the time, is transparent. Instead of discussing whether the law has been consistently respected and whether human rights and any restrictions that are clear, unequivocal and also sanctioned in the Slovenian legal order have been consistently respected, we are discussing whether any property is justified or unjustifiable. And he appears to be a fighter against it. It's a hoax. Everyone who went to the government of Dr. Cerar had to know, if, of course, he knew where he was entering, but he had to know that the privatisation procedures for certain companies, including Telekom, which had started under the previous government, were so far away that if Slovenia did not want to have great material damage and, of course, lose all reputation in the international public, it was necessary to continue and bring this to an end. If today the Minister of Defense is acting as a great fighter against this, then he should be asked why he then joined the government of Dr. Cerar. And all those who may feel the same way in the coalition. This is another example of something that makes it very clear that something is wrong with the Slovenian political system. Again and again we face the problem of becoming a government — any government — I now speak in general — a prisoner of blackmailing one of the smaller parties. As a result, no matter what happens, Slovenia has great material damage. This applies to all the years ago. The right moments for privatisation were long overdue, and at that time national interest and similar things were discussed, as is spoken of today. That we trusted not only our children, but also their grandchildren, and that is that today every family is burdened with about 60,000 euros of debt, if it is a four-member family, which is for the whole house that this family will be able to pay back and will never live in, and it is not in the national interest that it would never be? National interest is not something that is a one-layer thing to talk about, but it needs to be looked at as a whole. This is why it is a matter of pure misdirection, a cheap collection of political points in a way that is totally democratically unacceptable, with threats, with complaints from a member of the Security Intelligence Commission and now with allegations of actions against the President of the Government. Here you should ask yourself in the entire coalition, ladies and gentlemen, how you are recruiting. Take a look at what you have in the government so that something like this can happen. The fact that there may have been double standards in the game and that the anger of this man is, to some extent, understandable is one thing, but such conduct is something that should never appear in a normal country. Don't think he can't see that abroad. That's why we're all less credible together, and again, some exot, from which everyone who wants to do business normally runs away as long as possible. This is a problem and it's very big for Slovenia. I argue that as long as there is a proportional electoral system in Slovenia, we will be witnessing again and again to similar events when the Government is held hostage by one partial interest and when certain personal or party political interests are sold as a national interest and thus can block everything and everyone. Even the country, if you like. Citizens and citizens as taxpayers are paying for this. That's a developmental issue. It's not just a matter of politics and morality, as anyone here might think. That is why this debate is very important, and its debate will also be very important. First of all, in the SDS, we expect that the Minister will not remain in his place, because those who have apparently broken the law and exceeded the powers can not remain a member of any government. Secondly, all these questions that I have talked about need to be seriously examined and taken very seriously. Today, when it is known how this story will unfold, it will only be an open opportunity to fully verify you, including all procedures and actions for backcoming. I can assure you that those of us who are directly involved in this will do so, and that no one will in any case intimidate us, but that we will do our work responsibly and to the best of our ability, because it is in the public interest. So let me draw your attention to one more fact. The question of how and in what way the public has been informed cannot be the subject of any persecution or anything else, since the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has adopted a decision in which it entrusted the President and the Vice-President that they must inform the public accordingly because it is in the public interest. That's why we're here, for God's sake. To control those who actually have power that have power. This is also something that may have not always been understood well enough because of history and political tradition in Slovenia. People often come to demonstrate in front of the National Assembly, but they should go before the government, because the executive power is actually the one with the supremacy of power and power. However, the legislative authority is here to adopt regulations, laws and, of course, to control the executive branch of power. When this control is successful and it turns out that something has done wrong, as is obviously the case, it is also expected that appropriate action must be taken in the first place by sanctioning, which was wrong, and then it is good that it is also systemic to take a look at which solutions would be better for Slovenia and thus allow better and faster democratic development of Slovenia. Only when we reach this point did we complete our mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly, colleagues, colleagues, everyone else in the Chamber, a nice greeting from mine as well as from our parliamentary group! There has been a lot of ink about Minister Janko Webra and his actions over the past two weeks, and there have been too many or too many words spoken, even by Minister Webra, who would like to relive the actual whole story. We were able to listen to both the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, and the Minister, Janko Webr, who further enlightened us in recent weeks and again presented his vision of the situation. This will certainly make it easier for us to make a difficult decision that is likely to happen tonight. The issues are essentially very clear. In the opinion of the President of the Government, the Minister of Defence acted contrary to the rule of law and therefore proposes his discharge. Minister Weber claims that there was no illegality in his conduct, even more so, the Minister is convinced that his conduct was state-favoured. This is where things get complicated, but you shouldn't. If the Prime Minister no longer trusts the Minister, then it is clear that the Minister is leaving, not taking the Government, coalition and, of course, his own party hostage. I don't understand Minister Veber here. That's unacceptable. Indeed, politics is a possible art, but in our opinion, Minister Weber has gone too far in recent days, especially last night in the Turnout show. This is not good for the coalition, for the already so low reputation of politics in its entirety and in the end also for a country that is finally awakening after years of recession when economic indicators are positive. All we need to restart the economy is stability and a prudent government. On the other hand, we understand Minister Weber. His intentions were well-meaning. We are also concerned about the security aspects of Telekom's sale, which we have already pointed out in the questions sent and debates. We have all read the legal opinion of Rajko Pirnat and Igor Kaučič, who, in the course of the operation of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence concerning the privatisation of Telekom, has concluded that it is possible to conclude from the documents available that the activities of the Security Intelligence Service have largely met the criteria for the internal functioning of this service alone and that it is not possible to report illegal conduct. The legal opinion of the authors in question concludes that it is not possible to conclude that Minister Weber exceeded his powers and acted unlawfully. However, they noted that the opinion was prepared solely on the basis of the documents submitted and it could not be concluded that it would have been different if it had been shown that they did not have all the relevant documents. But today, the Prime Minister of the Government has informed us of additional documents. Minister Weber, we believe you had good intentions, but you acted unofficially or recklessly and recklessly. You probably had some bad counselors, too. We can conclude that you are objectively responsible for the obvious conduct. You are no longer given the trust of the Prime Minister or the majority of the coalition, and your party colleagues have been unusually detained since yesterday. Your assessment that you're operating in a state-of-the-art way, while apparently you're in a position of all sorts, is already tragic. We did not expect this from experienced politics. We understood you in the Desus Group at first and did not condemn you, you went your way really over the edge. You too are aware that if there is a vote on the proposal of the Prime Minister, your ministry is over. You have already clearly announced your return to the parliamentary bench yesterday, so, for the sake of further good cooperation, we urge you to step down before the vote and save us all some time. Dear colleague Janko Weber, I expect you to be in the parliamentary benches, and I hope that we will be able to participate in the future in a normal and fruitful manner. And there's something else about morality and ethics. I also think that if individual ministers step down quickly, they find that they have made mistakes and if the President of the Government also proposes from his Government the resolution, the moral and ethical functioning of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Honourable Minister of Defence Janko Weber, Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! This meeting of the National Assembly, which we are witnessing today, cannot be proud of us, dear colleagues and colleagues. Not to us, Members and Members of Parliament, not to the coalition and not to the opposition. It's probably someone in this place who's smiling and nervous now that it's not our fault, it's your fault that we're here today. So that perhaps a different course of action might prevent many of today’s meetings. And I wonder if I could. It is easy to smile and admire the events of the last days, when instead of what the Government is doing, reports on how politics deals with itself, how we can all be so foolish together that we are on a sensitive anniversary, the 25th anniversary of the first multiparty elections, the victims of our own arguments, and the search for guilt or guilt for what we are witnessing today. Blind is he, ladies and gentlemen, who does not see that we have all come together on the path of political overreaction, rather than, as we say at home, grab the bull by the horns and try to answer the right questions, the right substantive questions, the questions to which our citizens and citizens will be able to offer a better life. All of us sitting here today must be critical of our responsibility. Me, too. About your role. About your behavior. We need to ask ourselves about our statements, public statements or those that have remained somewhere in the closed rooms of our offices. Once again, when we get the policy to be used for client stories, when politics is managed as shares of a company, when it doesn't matter where we want to take this company, how many people we want to have in this company, it is only important that the so-called company gives customer profits. Of course, I wish it was different and different. I believe we can do it differently, but not with stumbling, not with arguing anymore, but with a great deal of responsibility to those we need to be responsible for. They're not just our customers, they're mostly our people in our country. That is why I believe that today is the final stage of this story that we have entered. Not only on the responsibility of the Prime Minister, not just on the responsibility of the Social Democrats, not just on the responsibility of Janko Webra or the opposition. All of us and all of us here must critically acknowledge our share of responsibility and show maturity to stop these foolish excesses. Without calculations and with a fig in our pocket, we need to say what is supported, ladies and gentlemen, with arguments and without focusing on statements that we think might be likeable or with which we could slightly improve our ratings. Not by how Minister Weber acted properly or incorrectly, but on average or on the mind, full of party enthusiasm about the need to defend or attack someone at all costs because we are so commanded by the party or by the opposition role. If anything, it is clear to us today that people have enough of us. Social Democrats have not resisted our coalition position, our party, our position as Minister. When they come up on a day of argument, politics has to fall away. It persists somewhere outside, and when the arguments run out, some use politics to confuse the truth, but we know that this truth sometimes hurts. This also happened in the case of Minister Veber, when some people decided that the label "described" should be affixed to Minister Vebra without in some way listening to arguments. Listen to arguments. Isn't that something we all have to do in politics? To hear the arguments first and then to follow them. I believe it is easier to grab the first bone that someone throws us, to act in the interests of a client and to let go of the course of condemnation and mistrust and to do what is best for their position or for their client. Social Democrats, ladies and gentlemen, like many others, could inherit this story, wash their hands, smile a little bit, as we know each other, because we can't do anything if part of the political public has decided as he has decided. Once again, it's not without politics. As Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has assembled his team. He put his team together on trust. However, something else has happened in this event that has prompted us to witness this debate today. Trust had a frontal impact on the arguments. Arguments and trust usually go, at least you should, your way, with your hand in your hand. It wasn't like that in the Veber case. The Social Democrats were at a crossroads. There are trust or mistrust on the scale and, of course, arguments. Whether it is a political decision to choose a party on which there is a lack of trust or to take a stand. The last, to step aside from the arguments, is of course a little harder. It is more difficult when heavy words fall from the opposition, which, of course, are full of desire for instability and when part of the coalition says that trust is before arguments. Today, we are here to face trust or mistrust and arguments again. They may not get legal results. It is difficult to draw all these strong words back, both on one side and of course on the other. However, we must once again ask ourselves how to overcome this excess of power and enable a solution that will be especially good for our country, for our people. At the same time, we must not overturn the arguments under the carpet and, on the other hand, we must not undermine the foundations of parliamentary democracy, which says that if the President of the Government does not have confidence in the Minister, he can no longer perform his functions. In light of this, we believe that today is a time when we are beyond the measurement of the power between mistrust and the insistence on the path of a position that speaks in favour of an argument. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to find a solution that will support the decision of the President of the Government, while at the same time not undermining the arguments. How do you do that? I think that the answer is simple, but at the same time difficult for all of us, and everyone in this Chamber who has been involved in this story must answer it, but with the greatest responsibility, of course, to our citizens and citizens, to our country. The so-called privatisation is also among these issues. Today, when we talk about such and different moves and the procedure, we forget the essence of this debate that in the years of the crisis, the issue of privatisation of state property has been put at the top of the content that all governments must face and that the government is also facing. Unfortunately, many times with this sting, when pressured by public financial consolidation, when some even called the troika, it forgot that this privatisation also had a price. This is not only measured by how much money we will spend on which company, who will be the buyer, whether it will be a strategic partner, or whether it has a vision of development, or whether we will go hand in hand to a variety of speculators, who promise businesses only profits at the price of jobs. The Defence Minister, Mr Janko Weber, has clearly highlighted the security aspect of Telekom's sale. It is not too much to repeat what some do not want, do not want or simply do not understand that the Ministry of Defence benefits from a wide range of Telekom services, including the operation of the 112 network of Telekom. It should be pointed out that Telekom is a company which, even after the Government's decision, is of particular importance for defence and represents state critical infrastructure. All analyses carried out on the basis of publicly available data and on the basis of the scope of services provided by the operator for the purposes of the Ministry have been carried out correctly and legally. But they have another great omen, which is an omen of responsibility, precisely what politicians or politicians like to avoid. Responsibilities. Responsibilities to our people. As far as legality was concerned, there was much to be said today, perhaps too much. The legal opinion drawn up by Dr. Kaučič and Dr. Pirnat has, again, unfortunately become a polygamy of various political interpretations and thinking, as if politics can take on everything that comes under her hand, only to establish itself. A legal opinion that is what it is, of course, is not what some would like it to be. However, I believe that the responsibility of Minister Weber's actions for a number of people is a painful point, which in the past has consistently fled from responsibility. We are opposed to this by the Social Democrats. And then, your honor, there's trust. Trust should be built with arguments and should not have a political calculation, but trust and mistrust are first personal matters. On what exactly are they based, if not on arguments, is of course difficult to understand. Nevertheless, they must be respected, not just in themselves. First, it is necessary to face anything that this trust or mistrust should be based on, only then must the moves be withdrawn. Perhaps the Prime Minister of the Government was too quick to decide on Minister Webra. Maybe he didn't make it, he did it, or he wanted to see all the arguments. We don't know that, and we probably won't find out today. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we must face today's political divisiveness and, as I have already pointed out, we must resolve it with some sober heads and decisions that go beyond politics. We, the Social Democrats, have also committed ourselves to this by signing a coalition treaty. This is not just a few ten papers that we can wave here and there when crises occur. This is a commitment that must not only become a subject of divisiveness, but that to which we must always turn, not to create problems, but to solve problems. With the signing of the coalition treaty, we have committed ourselves to doing everything in this government in our power not to forget the social state, public education, public health, so that we will not forget all those who have been pushed to the brink of a severe crisis, but we know and want to respect this Treaty by all those who are in the government. Responsibility begins with trust. If this trust has been lost in the last days, the responsibility has been shed under the carpet, we believe that with the greater measure of commitment that we owe to our citizens and citizens in the first place, we will take this debate one step further to find this trust for all of us, both the coalition and the opposition, by facing responsibility and putting all of our words of each of our actions first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u14	Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Miro Cerar won the elections with the promise of a new policy. The new policy served as a sufficiently loose, empty and broad concept for everyone to be able to project their ideas about politics. Some would like less corruption, others more cooperation between political parties, the third end of neoliberal governance. But surely no one wants to have any more affairs, but the actual new policy of Cerara's government is becoming this, an affair for the affair. If ever, affairs are now the center of political show business. More. They become some kind of policy substitute at the time of the withdrawal. When politics is no longer in place, it is obvious that its place is taking on affairs, or perhaps it is merely a convenient way of diverting public attention from actual problems. However, for the last affairs of the Cerara government, we cannot possibly accept that these cases should be particularly unfortunate, as Prime Minister Miro Cerar last expressed himself in some self-justification. For the last three affairs, i.e. the affair of fees, the affair of Klaudija Markež and the affair of Janko Weber is the sole responsibility of the government. In an affair of fees, because those who indulge in morality and ethics should take into account the fact that 640,000 Euros of fees paid by Stanka Setnikar Cankar to Professor Stanka Setnikar Cankar are not ethical and moral. In the Claudius Marquez affair, the government is to blame because Claudius Markež did not really need a plagiarism master's degree so that the government, which took the Right People to the right places for its slogan, would have to understand that this candidate is not the right place for the Minister. That finding really didn't require plagiarism mastery. It would be more than enough if you listened to her program and her presentation, but you didn't. Why? Because you preferred to listen to the right side of the opposition and cook another third affair — the Weber affair. True, this affair was not cooked by Matthew Tonin. It was cooked by Miro Cerar. Matthew Tonin may have supplied straw, and the matches were brought by Mira Cerar. The fire set fire to the Prime Minister himself. For one thing, if the opposition MP asks the minister to resign, I say something else if the President of the Government does. In this case, the President of the Government did so without clearly proving to the Minister that he had in fact exceeded his powers, as the opposition MP had previously told him. For the Prime Minister's proposal for a discharge states that "the Minister's actions in this case cannot be judged differently from illegal and unprofessional," but Dr Cerar does not prove this by any means. The legal opinion of Dr. Kaucič and Pirnat, which was commissioned, is that the opposite conclusion is that "the available documents can conclude that the activities of the ODS have largely met the criteria for the internal functioning of this service alone and therefore it is impossible to justify illegal conduct". Thus, the legal opinion ordered by the Prime Minister himself says that it is not possible to report illegal conduct. Now, if we simplify and summarize this action a little bit. The Minister asked his subordinates, who were also supposed to be familiar with wiretaps, what a danger the privatisation of Telekom poses. The staff then obtained certain information by browsing the Internet. They gave this information to their chairman and minister. The data obtained were not obtained in an illegal manner and were also not used in an illegal manner. All that therefore costs from the accusations made by the Prime Minister is that the Minister and the OPC did not comply with the basic professional standard, as the order was not made in writing and cannot therefore be verified. That alone cannot be the reason for the Minister's dismissal. In particular, not because, in addition to the development security risks for the country to which the Minister of Defence points out, they are significant. If we just look at neighbouring Croatia for a moment. Croatia sold its Telekom to Germany in 2002. In 2013, the story leaked to the public that Deutsche Telekom had started directing all telecommunications data through Frankfurt and Bonn in Germany. The data on received and received calls, the e-mail of Croatian government ministers, the President of the State and the entire Croatian army, Deutsche Telekom therefore began to keep at his home, in his data centre, that is, in the field of German jurisdiction and in the reach of German intelligence services. Croatia is therefore now planning to build a new public network. Its plan is to connect the existing optical connections of Croatian railways, electricity, pipeline and pipeline networks and to produce the so-called Neptune network. This project, aimed primarily at ensuring national security, will cost 240 million euros because they realized that Telekom's sale was also a mistake from a national security point of view. Meanwhile, with us, the President of the Government is dismissing the Minister of Defence for the purpose of verifying exactly such security and defence aspects of the privatisation of Telekom, i.e. because of something that the responsible President of the Government should do on his own. Before selling the largest telecommunications company in the country, it is also necessary to check the security and defence aspects of this, especially if the most likely buyer comes from a country that has itself put itself in the role of European hegemonics, which for this purpose is more than obvious to the strategic infrastructure in the region and which in the immediate neighbourhood, as we have seen in the case of Croatia, is already carrying out very controversial practices. That's how we get to the point of the problem. There's an interest in the backdrop of a legal dispute. The interest of the Government after privatisation, the interest of the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister following the hegemonic policy in Europe. In view of the fact that the Finance Minister and the President of the Government are also recruiting themselves into state-run privatisation institutions, perhaps the interest in spilling their political power into economic power, perhaps after the establishment of their own economic elite. This would not be new in Slovenia, we have already seen such processes in Slovenia. The fact is that the law in this case is only a way of fighting or a form of fighting, and the actual conflict is between the privatisation ambitions of the Prime Minister and the anti-privatisation positions of the Defence Minister. More directly, the President of the Government wants to get rid of the Minister of Defence, who opposed the privatisation of Telekom. At the same time, given that the Weber affair is only one in a row of affairs, apparently affairs are becoming a way for the government to divert public attention from the harmful policies that this government is implementing. Consider the case of Telekom, in which the story of Helios has already been repeated, where the old administration fired 155 employees to protect themselves from the chairs. That's what Telekom's board is doing right now. By the end of 2016, she had already announced 550 redundancies for sale. The Weber affair once again serves as a useful tool to prevent information about the privatisation of NKBM in the public eye, i.e. a bank in which the country has invested almost a billion euros over the past two years and is now selling it for 200 million chickens, in line with speculative capital. The Weber affair has completely overshadowed the privatisation of Zit in the media. It will be taken by or directly by Podravka's competitor or sold by the Government to Ardian's speculative capital fund. Finally, while we are all dealing with the question of whether Cerar is right or right Weber, the sale of Cinkarna Celje, a company with a thousand employees, will endanger at least 400 jobs by selling, as 400 jobs produce little added value and, as the employees and leadership there warn, there is a serious danger that the buyer, who will look only at short-term profits, will close these plants and 400 workers will fly on the road. But the government prefers the thousands of jobs it places on the line to deal with the Weber affair. On the one hand, as we have seen, in order to overshadow serious problems with a time-consuming and conflict story, on the other hand, in order to get rid of the minister, who in at least one of the cases warned of the risk of privatisation, so that sales procedures for Telekom and other critical infrastructure could be smoothed over through NKBM, Žit, Pivovarni Laško, Radenski, Adri, Polzeli, Bakery Grosuplje and others. Minister Weber is therefore not on the bench today because of illegal conduct, but because he dared to oppose privatisation. After ordering an analysis on the security risks of the privatisation of Telekom, he took the lead on the President of the Government and the Modern Centre Party. The Prime Minister and his client also built their pre-election campaign on a promise not to sell strategic infrastructure. Now that they have swallowed this promise, it would be difficult for them to swallow up any further analysis that points to the harm of swallowing their promise. Given that the Minister has, to some extent, renounced even his own party because of his ambition to participate in such a government, the result of today's vote can be anticipated in advance. The minister will fall and the sale will continue. The question that remains is what will be the new affair with which the government will bring public attention to the silent privatisation it is carrying out behind our backs. This is no new policy as you promised before the elections, and in the United Left what we have been monitoring for the past months, we cannot support it in any way. In a concrete story, however, we cannot support the opportunism of those who tried to gain political points with the Weber affair, or the calculus of the President of the Government, who in general saw the opportunity to settle with the internal opposition in the government. We can't agree to such maneuvers. Today's session is not a new policy, it's a farce.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u15	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished minister, Prime Minister of the Government, President of the National Assembly, welcome! Today is an infamous anniversary, one month since the Commission's authorised group for the supervision of security and intelligence services found the Minister's unlawful conduct. I agree with those who claim that this story stretches too long and needlessly. As soon as the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has established the illegal conduct of the Minister, any minister in a normal democratic state would resign on the same day. But admitting mistakes is not the virtue of Minister Webber. In his defense, he tried all sorts of things, politicized, deceived, and lied. The President of the Government, on the basis of the Commission's evidence for the supervision of security and intelligence services, and also on the basis of the legal opinion presented, simply could not establish any other than that Minister Weber acted unlawfully. The New Slovenia Group will today support the discharge of Minister Vebra as we do not tolerate ministers who violate legislation and abuse military intelligence for their private needs. In a way, Weberkom's affair is also a battle for interpretation, a battle between evidence and politicization. Unfortunately, my predecessor has also shown that it is not essential evidence and the rule of law, but it is essential to politicise and exploit every affair to highlight their political line and their political mission. Many have spoken of completely different things, but not of violations of legal principles and of legislation, as discussed by the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services. Let me make it very clear that this is not a conflict of politics, of those who support privatisation, and of those who oppose privatisation, but of the rule of law. This is the key conflict that we have had this month since we found out. It is whether we tolerate a minister who violates the law and whether we tolerate interference with military intelligence services in private and civil matters. Of course, all Members are not members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission and therefore you cannot be aware of all the details. Therefore, it may be appropriate for me, as Head of the authorised group, to explain what details are available for your better information and for a better knowledge. On 9 March, exactly one month ago, an authorised committee of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services went into unannounced control at the Ministry of Defence. This authorised group was composed of me, Matjaž German of SD and Jan Mahnic of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The other two members were informed about the purpose of the surveillance in the car when we drove to the ODS building. In our control, we asked the director of the Military Intelligence Service for the College's records for November and December 2014. Why? Because the college is the body that actually determines which direction the service will operate, how the tasks will be shared in the individual service and who is responsible for what. In the minutes of 10 November 2014, we find the following decision, which consists of two parts. In order to prepare an analysis for the Minister, negative and positive aspects of the divestment of the national operator to a foreign buyer and the consequences of the sale on the performance of the ODS tasks. The decision consists of two parts, the deadline for the implementation of this Decision was 1 December 2014, and the holder of this task was the intelligence and anti-intelligence sector. If it were to hold what the minister all the time claims that he has only used and checked how Telekom's sales would have responded or what consequences would have for ODS operations, then the conclusion should be such as to prepare an analysis of the consequences of the sale of Telekom for the performance of ODS tasks. This would be the right decision to allow the Minister to act legally. The decision, however, consisted of two parts, one part relating to the preparation of an analysis for the Minister, the positive and negative aspects, and the other part relating to the examination of all the consequences that privatisation will have for the functioning of the OAS. What is the most problematic issue in this decision? The problem is that the intelligence and anti-intelligence sectors were empowered to do so. These are the two sectors that have special powers and can also use hidden investigative means, including a mobile listening device. It's a portable listening device. Members or employees of these two sectors are also operators in the field where they can collect information from their informants and other sources. We have undoubtedly found that there is no basis in law for empowering the intelligence and anti-intelligence sectors. These two sectors should primarily deal with the safety of our troops on missions. The latest publications show exactly how it is necessary for the ODS or the military intelligence service to focus all its resources on ensuring the safety of our troops on the mission. Instead of being involved in what militias are walking around Lebanon and where our missions are operating, they were involved in privatisation. This is due to the misuse of resources. This is all the more tragic because in recent times many Jihadists from Syria and Iraq have been returning to Europe, especially Kosovo, who have direct instructions from their superiors to act against foreign forces on domestic soil. And today our Slovenian soldiers are much more at risk because the ODS was being abused for the purposes of privatisation, not for what it is actually intended for. When we found irregularities in our control, Director Gorazd Rednak, of course, defended his position that he had received direct instructions from the Minister, that he had to comply with this instruction and that he had reported orally on all these matters to the Minister. Since I understood that we would not be able to draw closer to each other in the control itself, I agreed with the Director, by which the Director agreed that the Director and the Minister had nine days to respond in writing to our findings. On 9 March, surveillance was carried out and the deadline for the reply of the Minister and the Director of the Service was 18 March. On 17 March, we receive a reply from Director Rednak on two sides, where he answers very simply and briefly and refers to the fact that they had a basis for their operation under Article 32 of the Defence Act and that he reported orally on all matters to the Minister. This document shall also be signed. A meeting of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services was held a day later, on 18 March. We also discussed this surveillance and the full functioning of the military intelligence service in 2014. Despite being invited to this meeting, the Minister did not attend this meeting. At this meeting, we find that this is an order from a minister who does not have a legal basis, and we can therefore view this order as illegal. Even more so, this conviction was confirmed by two things. Firstly, the ODS did not report on such important matters as monitoring the privatisation process in its 2014 report. She did not mention these activities by word of mouth, despite the fact that all other tasks and activities are described very precisely in such reports. Clearly, this important activity was not written even in a word. Another thing that bothered us was that it was just oral reporting. We have adopted two conclusions on the illegal conduct of the Minister and that the President and I are empowered to make these matters known to the public. From here on, however, there was a series of manipulations and deceptions to maintain the position of Minister Vebra, who from day to day became more and more Minister of Defence for the defence of his own position. It first came with a report, which was written in 2014, prepared by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence and the Director-General of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, on 6 November 2014. This report, which the Minister originally presented as problematic, is completely non-problemsome. The Commission has not challenged this report for the supervision of security and intelligence services. Where did the minister go most? This report does not mention that it was prepared by the ODS and more, dated 6 November, but in fact issued a instructions for the preparation of a special ODS report 4 days later, on 10 November. The following is another report, which appeared quite unusually overnight very quickly, on several pages to be made by the ODS and from which the minister was to withdraw the code confidentially. Do you think it's normal for a report to appear overnight, but if the director and the minister all the time claim it was oral reporting? So what happened? Either the Minister and the Director have deceived the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services or this document has been falsified and made over the weekend for the purposes of defending Minister Vebra. I believe that other story. Why? Because there are two strange things in there. The first odd thing is that the report, which was made in November 2014, actually responds to our March 2015 indictments. It doesn't make sense. There's no legal timeline. The next thing that's very unusual. Military Intelligence has a special system called IRDG. All work versions they do are invested in this system, including Word documents, when a work report is produced by the ODS. Such reports have not been submitted to this system, which merely confirms that the document was falsified and made over the weekend. A famous legal opinion justified by the Minister on the basis of his lawful conduct. The lawyers made it very clear in which case the Minister would have acted lawfully and in which case he would have acted unlawfully. They set three conditions for legality. Firstly, the activities would be used only for the internal organisation of the ODS. What can we say about this criterion? It is difficult to establish that there was oral reporting, so we do not know what data Minister Weber used, which he received, could actually have received much more information than was recorded in that falsified report. No permanent ODS practices have been used. And why was this activity silenced in the 2014 report? The first condition for the legality of operation can therefore be rejected without major problems. Let us move on to a second condition, that no specific powers and databases have been used. Don't hold it. The ODS has the right to inspect the SOVE, police bases and can also negotiate and exchange information with other partner intelligence services. I'm sure the ODS did. In addition, ODS agents have the status of spies on the ground in other countries, which means that they do not need judicial decisions in order to eavesdrop on their wiretaps, but operate as spies do. Other criteria laid down by the lawyers for the legality of the operation have also been rejected. The third criterion is that only publicly available data have been used. It's a very simple question. Then why is the label "classified" on the work material? It doesn't make any sense. Since not all the criteria laid down by the lawyers as the criteria for the lawful functioning of the Minister have been met, we cannot conclude that the Minister has acted unlawfully. At this point, as an opposition Member, I can only say thank you to the President of the Government for not reacting quickly, recklessly, but taking time, thinking things over and studying them. Perhaps some other president of the government would react quickly, put himself in a trench in the sense of opposition and coalition and defend his coalition minister at all costs. But I am sure that on the basis of the arguments, the President of the Government has put himself on the side of the rule of law. Is the security of the country really at risk? Of course, certain infrastructure is very important for the security of the country and this important infrastructure is included and included in the list of critical infrastructures, but critical infrastructure is not the same as state ownership. A certain part of the critical infrastructure is also not state-owned. Next thing. Will the possibility of hearing be reduced because of the alien owner of Telekom? The answer is no, because we already have telecommunication operators who are privately owned by foreign nationals, but they must be able to listen on the basis of our laws. Is there a greater chance of foreign service listening to us because of the sale of Telekom? Whoever claims it just shows their big ignorance. Today, listening is no longer about whether you control some cables and some communication lines, but listening is much more sophisticated. Let me tell you about the case of Germany. American technology is so advanced that the American intelligence service could easily eavesdrop on a German chancellor, even though Germany owns its own Telecom. The minister also said that this would jeopardize the operation of 112. That's the most stupid thing I've ever heard. The operation of 112 defines and sets out the Law on Electronic Communications, which accurately prescribes to each telecommunications operator what needs to be done to make these things work. The problems of Croats. There's a lot of manipulation here. Anyone who studies things can figure out the following. Firstly, because a large part of the infrastructure, particularly in rural areas, was not built when Telekom was sold and, of course, the new owner was not interested in building infrastructure in rural areas, because it does not bring money. But Telekom now has virtually everywhere built infrastructure, so this element is gone. This is why Croatia is now fighting to bring such infrastructure to some rural areas. More importantly, the minister forgot that we already own at least two other operators and two important communication backbones today, one is Stelk and the other is Delkom, the first is owned by electrical distributors, the second owned by Darsa. As a member of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, I have merely performed the duty imposed by law on me. If I didn't do it, then I would be the one who would be in violation of the law. I was rewarded with an accusation for my work. If that's the price I have to pay for a larger state of law, I'll just pay it. In the event that today's session is closed to the public, I will reveal at least three other things in the closed part of the meeting, which are also important for understanding the broader context. I can't talk about these things in an open session, but I can talk about these things in a closed session. I can explain exactly what was going on in the military intelligence service exactly following the Minister's illegal instructions, what was the climate, how things were going on in the intelligence service following this instruction. I will also explain exactly what measures the Minister has taken to abuse the military intelligence service and what consequences there are for the operation of this service abroad today. I hope you understand that I cannot disclose these things in an open session, even in the light of the integrity and functioning of the military intelligence service, but if the meeting closes, then I will also disclose these documents, which further burden Minister Webra.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u17	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u18	Good afternoon, Prime Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are in a session that at least today I have heard of three signs that some of us may be ashamed that it is a farce, that I do not know what else. In fact, we are at a purely regular business meeting, which was called for by Members' signatures. Sadly, though, what is happening now is what we never really wanted. We are not members of the KNOVS in the Alliance for known reasons. We have not done this at all, and I must say that we are objective here, at least under the slogans, because we are the opposition, and the opposition is always hard to be objective, at least so always a true coalition, because we have not actually participated in this structure that we are now listening to. Why the design? Because that's what the minister says on the way out. So maybe we could take a closer look at the whole story of what's really going on. There's something going on that we didn't want. At the outset, let me immediately say that today we will not have any problems with all these documents, dates and measures, because today we have heard them quite a bit from the initiator of the whole thing, Comrade Tonin. It is also true that the experts wrote me eight pages of what I should read, and I will not, because now I have heard all that changes, of course, what I want to say. The absurdity of the situation in which we are in particular is that the proposal for a solution is proposed by someone responsible for this government. In the past, there have been quite a few attempts after the change in the procedure for appointing the Government and, of course, the executive authorities, how they could actually carry out their tasks, and now we have come to a dead point where they have in fact warned all Members and Members that something will have to be done. Do you imagine that today the minister will not give up and may even remain a minister following a proposal for the discharge of the Prime Minister? You know what happens next? The Prime Minister has to go. In our terms, we do not have a clear exercise of the actual responsibility of the President of the Government. The President of the Government is the one responsible for the entire Government and through his ministers he also implements policies for which he has received his votes and, last but not least, the composition of the coalition and his mandate. Do we have a government so that individual ministers can instrumentalize and blackmail even the Prime Minister with public appearances and end up threatening him with complaints? I just didn't understand it at first, I thought it was a joke when I first heard it. You can't do that. Of course, this is not particularly done by someone who has been in politics for 25 years and knows what kind of policy we want to have. Even his president said they were some kids, I don't know how he said I wouldn't say wrong, some disease that should have happened 25 years ago, not today. This is a key issue today that we are talking about. The Prime Minister gave the legal opinion to produce two lawyers. Prime Minister, it's not necessary. You can always, at any time and without any opinion, propose the discharge of the minister. Remember the period 2004-2008 when similar conflicts occurred and the President of the Government came across one of the ministers who had problems with the birth of Slovenians and even thought about women and men wearing too tight wings and pants. And they had to split up. There were no legal opinions at the time. They just split up, and then there was a successful breakup. That's why I think today I'm doing these engravings around this legally, illegally, legally, honestly, patriotically, and I don't know what else, twisted and hiding for the facts. The Prime Minister no longer wishes to have the Prime Minister in his government. If I understand correctly – because I am not afraid of this decision today, but I am afraid of what will happen then – whether this party that is in the coalition because of this minister will leave this government, because if it is not a minister, then it is known who is doing the wrong thing. And that's the problem. I can say something myself. I'll give you one comparison. Remember last year, there was a stomach and the president of the country was very ill-willed and angry because the army reacted too late. But they looked a little strange in the army and they said, "President, we can't go to the streets until we get a call, that's the civil sphere." The Minister of Defence obviously did not understand this when he was a Member and this was happening. All sales, major sales, I believe he's been monitoring Owl today, and he's been monitoring Telekom. I don't know if they are or not, but I believe in it. There's no other way. I don't know why the ODS should. If what the Minister claims to have analysed only publicly available data, I will ask you otherwise than my colleague Tonin why he had to do it then. This could be done by a good analyst who is familiar with telecommunications, because this minister obviously does not, and would, of course, give a very clear and fast report. I will conclude with another word game, or with a word link that has been very fond of playing between Mr Tonin and Mr Minister in the last month. The minister says he likes marmalade for breakfast, and they say he found it with his hand in marmalade. And there's only one thing I know that one is made of jam, and the rest is a thing of imagination. In Mojka the Periculja knows how it was done, the one you read and know. I hope that we will not make Mojce Kraljuclje here in Parliament. Minister, it's time for you to step down.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u19	Gradually, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Following this first introductory explanation by the applicant, Prime Minister Mir Cerar, the presentation of the positions of Defence Minister Janko Vebra and the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members, I find that, on behalf of the Group of Members, on the basis of Article 101, paragraph 2, and also Article 101, paragraph 4, I will propose that the continuation of the consideration of this point of our extraordinary meeting be carried out without the presence of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u21	As Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer announced that she would raise a question in the debate concerning data which has a degree of secrecy under Article 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre proposes to the National Assembly that part 1 of the agenda should be held at a meeting without the presence of the public. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 101, the National Assembly shall decide on this at a meeting without public presence. Please remove all personal items from the hall, including mobile phones and laptops and any other electronic devices. Members and Members of Parliament are kindly requested to have an e-mail card with you when re-entering the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly for identification purposes. I hereby interrupt this agenda item and interrupt the 12th extraordinary meeting for 45 minutes so that the assembly services can prepare all necessary to hold the meeting without public presence. We'll continue the session at 15.50. The meeting was suspended at 3:03 p.m. /The sitting was closed to the public at 4:07 p.m. and lasted until 20.25 p.m. The meeting open to the public was resumed at 21.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u22	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the second item of the agenda, this is on the Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Candidate Decision, which, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member for which the term of office has expired. Because he's a magician. As of today, Klavdija Markež has terminated her term of office, the State Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the term of office of the Member should be changed to Dusan Radic. The findings of the National Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. You received the report and it was published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. On the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we vote on the following proposal for a decision: 6. 1963, resident of Jordan 28, Tropovci, Silence. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I invite Ambassador Dusan Radic to rejoin us and occupy his post. [[Applause]] This concludes the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of Mr Janko Webra, Minister of Defence. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Janko Weber is relieved of his duties as Minister of Defence. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that no one is above the laws and the Constitution. This is said to be an appropriate sanction for the irregularities identified. Today's meeting goes beyond this framework, for it has been shown that the coalition that took place on the basis of the claim of high ethics has fallen precisely on these three points — ethics, morality and respect for legality in the first year of its mandate. What is more, this coalition has become entangled in internal blockades and disputes, and that is why we find in the SDS that today the meeting was closed to the public in the afternoon work, for no real reason. For we have not heard such a thing, which is not known, we have heard nothing of any document, which would bear a particular mark of confidentiality, but it was something else. It was about hiding disputes, hiding from the public that the coalition was dealing with itself instead of people's welfare. And that's a pretty bad message. The fact that this has been disguised as an obvious abuse of business regulations is, of course, very clear about it. In the SDS Group, however, we know that the country must be guided in a way that is time-consuming, especially in an area as important as a defence area that is not only affecting our country, but also touching its reputation abroad. For this reason, of course, we will do everything in our power to arrange matters as soon as possible, so that this government and coalition will also be allowed to begin, let us hope, to deal with what people once elected it to do. For the well-being of the people. However, we will be able to have a meeting at which there will be no more or about the same number of points proposed by the SDS or the opposition as proposed by the Government itself. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, that you should stop dealing with yourself in order to meet the same criteria for all, because if you have proposed the discharge of Minister Vebra today, you should also propose the dismissal of Minister Klemenčič, for whom other institutions have found that he has broken the law in the past. Then everything we are talking about will be real and consistent, just as our vote will be. We will vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u24	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u25	Dear colleagues and colleagues! After exactly one month, we take the story to the end. This story should have ended a long time ago. If the Minister were a true democrat and a Western European politician, then he would have resigned on 18 March of this year in the first conclusions. Thus, this unusual saga was drawn, and the damage was suffered mainly by the State. The Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission has clearly established that the Minister has exceeded his powers and acted unlawfully. Neither of the three criteria that were recorded by two lawyers in the legal opinion was met. The logical consequence is that the President of the Government could not conclude otherwise than that the Minister acted unlawfully. Today it was not a question of whether we are in favour or against privatisation. Today it is a question of whether we are in favour or against the rule of law. In no state of law, military intelligence is allowed to intervene in the civil sphere. With today's resolution of the Minister of Defence, this tradition of acute separation between military and civil affairs continues, as we welcome in Novi Slovenija. Even in the closed part of today’s session, we were able to learn some details about the state of the Minister of Defence leaving military intelligence. His successor's got a lot of work to do, a lot of energy. I wish him good luck. The New Slovenia Group announces that today it will vote in favour of the discharge of Defence Minister Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u26	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much again, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. Dear Minister Janko Weber! First things first. Janko Weber, according to the result, you were a good minister and the Social Democrats are not ashamed of your work. Moreover, I think we have, in spite of this month since this story, Vebergate, but we have come up with some insights that the Government will also take into account in the coming period. We had a closed public meeting today. At this closed session, we heard many arguments, many fruitful debates, many meaningful views on developments in Slovenia, including a number of accusations that do not belong in this Chamber. And yet we survived this meeting. Each of us, all 90 of us, will go from this meeting to today with a different view of the developments in this hall. Social Democrats from this session leave with their heads up. However, we are aware that the country is also important here in addition to our party. We have a government that has done a lot of work for my understanding of this period, despite not admitting it, and we will have a government that will probably solve a lot of problems in this country. If we are the Social Democrats, which I believe we can continue to form a social state, then I believe that hope is for this country. I believe that today's session has not left too many wounds between us, because we still have to look at some things sportsly and also humanly. I, all together, and the Prime Minister of the Government, and especially you, Janko, I wish you good luck, because it will be good for all of us. We will vote against the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u28	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u29	In fact, we are pleased to have held a closed session for at least two reasons. First of all, to give the minister and everyone else the opportunity to talk more openly than usual when it comes only to performing in front of the cameras. The second reason is absolutely that we could in some way also protect the Slovenian public from what was actually happening for a month. In fact, me and our Group of Members regret that what has happened has happened. It is common practice that when the President of the Government comes forward with a proposal to dismiss his minister by his majority, he will do so, because it was also considered that when the procedure was passed, how the President of the Government or the Government would rule as an independent executive branch. Today, however, he has given us a clear message that it is necessary to come in very quickly and also approach changes to the Constitution, when, how and how the Prime Minister can replace his minister. In the introductory explanation, I have given quite a few reasons why and when it is right for the Minister to say thank you beautifully, and the Minister, who will become our fellow Member tomorrow, has in fact given us a clear warning of what should not happen in the Slovenian space. Therefore, the opposition party of the Alliance will support the proposal of the President of the Government that what the Minister of Defence has afforded does not become a standard or even a rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u30	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u31	In the vote, the SMC Group will support the Prime Minister's proposal to dismiss the Minister of Defence. In the context of the already presented positions of the President of the Government, then the Minister of Defence and also representatives of the parliamentary groups, and in particular after the discussion, which took place without public presence, the SMC Group convinced itself of the two fundamental elements that the President of the Government himself had put forward in the context of this discharge. The first is concern and struggle for the rule of law. Secondly, as has been shown in particular since the beginning of the parliamentary entry into this problem through the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, this is the importance of parliamentary control over the functioning of the executive branch. In both respects, therefore, the Group of Members is absolutely justifying its final decision to support the Prime Minister's proposal. Also, the SMC Group wants us to go into future coalition with our partners as successfully as we have so far gone towards the path of the necessary redevelopment of this country, based on these foundations, which we have also highlighted here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u32	Mr Primož Hainz has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I must say that the topic surrounding Telekom, which has been under discussion for a month or so, has been somewhat misused. I am one of those who is not willing to sell, not to say that I am against the sale of state property and I have constantly warned about this, but this approach of course does reverse advertising and I think that the sale or sale of state property has even damaged this topic. The debate was absolutely misused for completely different purposes, for internal relations in the Government. Of course, I am sure, I am saying this on behalf of the Group of Members, that the division of power is what separates this democratic power from that power before. Previously, we had a unity of power, but now we have a division of power. If I always advocate that the National Assembly is a separate legislative authority, then I also advocate that the executive power is independent as the judiciary. By this logic, I am also in favour of the fact that the President of the Government is elected by the National Assembly, and the rest depends on the mandate holder, who and what he chooses for his team. In the end, what our constitutional debate will look like, I don't know, but I stand for it. I think I am also speaking on behalf of the Group of Members. That is why I think that the President of the Government has the right, if he is not satisfied with one of his ministers and thinks he is working past him – especially in such a sensitive area as the military area, which is also very likely to slip past civil authorities – to replace or propose his resignation. The Group of Members will vote unanimously in favour of the discharge of Mr Vebra's Minister of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u34	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. In the Joint Left, we will vote against the decision proposed by Prime Minister Miro Cerar. Our voice goes against privatisation, against "aferism" and democracy. Never, for we will never sign under the position expressed today at the closed session by the President of the Government, who goes in terms of: Whoever disagrees with me is undemocratic. As Rosa Luxemburg said, freedom is always and exclusively freedom of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-09-SDZ7-Izredna-12.ana.u36	We've exhausted the explanation for the voice. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against 11.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that Mr Janko Weber is relieved of his duties as Minister of Defence. The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, is today, 9. 4. 2015, pursuant to Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, informed the National Assembly that the Minister of Defence would serve as Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan. I therefore note that the second paragraph of the decision adopted on the discharge of the Minister of Defence has become irrelevant. In the light of the above, the National Assembly shall determine: For the first time, since Janko Weber was relieved of his duties as Minister of Defence, he is acting as a Member of Parliament as of today in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, as of today, ceases to serve as Member of the Committee of the Regions. Mr Franz Križanič, acting in place of Mr Janko Vebra at the time he served as Minister. At the same time, I really thank Dr. Franz Križanič for his work in the National Assembly. [[Applause]] I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 12th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
