ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 11th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Marija Antonija Kovacič, Anja Bah Žibert, Iva Dimic, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Janez Janša and Matjaž Hanžek. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. OF THE DAY’S ORDER, THIS IS ADVANTAGED PROPOSAL OF THE AGRICULTURE COMMUNITY LEGISLATION, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The government has sent a new system law governing the field of agrarian communities to the National Assembly for consideration. This is a content and legally very demanding law which, after 20 years, establishes a regime for the management of such assets. In 1994, the Law on the Re-establishment of the Agrarian Community returned the seized property directly to former agrarian communities, which thus became co-owners or joint owners. In accordance with the applicable Real Law, all co-owners' consent is required for transactions that exceed regular management, which, due to the large number of members, prevents normal management of such property. This causes this property to become dead because it cannot be properly handled. The problems are also faced by municipalities when they plan public infrastructure. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has therefore, on the basis of a number of initiatives from agrarian communities and other backgrounds, drawn up a law in cooperation with them which will facilitate the operation and use of agricultural land and forest land more effectively. Let me remind you that agrarian communities comprise more than 77,000 hectares of land, representing almost 4% of the total area of Slovenia. In total, 638 agrarian communities are kept in the registers of the agrarian community; the number of members is different and ranges from 3 to 513, on average 34 members. Let me give you some key solutions. The law governs the management of agricultural land owned by an agrarian community in such a way as to ensure that members of their management decisions are taken by a vote in the general assembly, with the exception of certain transactions for which a higher majority is envisaged. Secondly, agrarian communities will not be a legal person, but a property community, i.e. a civil law society, which will decide through the authorities on the management of land owned or shared property. However, the Agrarian Community will be able to take part in judicial, administrative and other proceedings before the State authorities and in legal traffic with third parties where it will be represented by the President. The law also regulates the organisation of agrarian communities, bodies, elections to organs, memberships, basic acts and registers in order to prevent further increase in the number of members of the agrarian community. The law provides for a special system of succession under the rule of one heir, lays down a preliminary order in the case of sale of the ownership share and lays down, in principle, the prohibition of the alienation of the property of the plot as a whole. The law introduces a set-up concerning the first stage of milk processing, for example butter, cheese considered to be an agricultural activity on the mountains and also in common pastures, which means that the members of the agrarian community will not have to be registered for the purpose of carrying out this activity in a specific organisational form. The law also provides for the possibility of the end of the agrarian community with the consent of all members in the event of a transfer of property to a legal person or with a three-quarter agreement in the event of the distribution of all property among co-owners. On an official basis, the courts must carry out all hereditary procedures which have not yet been introduced and enter new landowners into the land book. The agrarian communities shall then be entered in the register of agrarian communities under the new law. Finally, let me mention the special arrangements for foreigners in the Republic of Italy, which are considered to be immovable property held in the Republic of Slovenia and entitled by members of the agricultural communities from substitution, therefore it will be considered that in procedures not yet completed, this property can be returned to the agrarian community which is registered as a legal person in Italy; it is said that on both sides of the border they will operate in the same form. Finally, I should like to reiterate that the law will significantly facilitate the work of agrarian communities, make it possible to make more efficient use of agricultural and forestry land owned by them, and therefore I hope that you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for an agrarian law as a working body at its 10th meeting, on 2 September 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Law and Legal Services and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in addition to its general comments, also made specific comments on several articles of the bill. Most of the comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to the bill. The amendment was tabled by the United Left Member Group and the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups within the time limit. The Committee also took note of the responses of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to certain comments by the Legal and Legislative Service to the individual article, of the opinion of the Council of State supporting the bill and of the comments of the Agrarian Community of Rateca-Planica, which points out the inability of the normal functioning of the agrarian community due to unsustainable tax rules. In accordance with 145. a Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been sent to the local communities for an opinion. By the end of the deadline, no local community had forwarded the opinion to the National Assembly. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in an additional explanation for the written opinion, pointed out that, with regard to the solutions proposed, the question was raised as to whether they did not constitute a restriction on the ownership of owners and joint owners of property and an interference with the right to private property. This is permissible only if the restriction pursues economic, environmental or social objectives, if it is appropriate and necessary to achieve these objectives, and if it is proportionate to the objective achieved. It also noted the proposed expiry date of the special arrangements for the management of the assets of members of the agrarian community in Article 11 of the Law on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights. In the opinion of the service, this may constitute an intervention in existing legal relations or justified legal expectations protected by the constitutional principle of the protection of trust in law. In the debate, the Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia stressed that the House supports the proposed law, but considers that some shortcomings in the taxation of agricultural communities should be addressed in the future. The members of the committee from the coalition groups and the New Slovenia Group supported the bill in the debate, as they believe it is an appropriate legal basis to facilitate the management of agrarian communities and reduce the burden on their members through bureaucratic procedures and to facilitate the resolution of most of the issues faced by agrarian communities. In particular, normal property management, which is co-owned or jointly owned by members of agrarian communities, will be enabled. On the contrary, the members of the SDS Group and the United Left Group felt that the bill could not be supported, since it does not address fundamental issues concerning the property of agricultural communities and the sustainable management of agricultural and forestry land, but only offers a framework for asset management and opens the way for its sale. The debate on individual articles was held only on Article 43 and on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to this Article. The representative of the amendment's proposer stressed that the free transfer of the municipal co-ownership share of the property of the agrarian community to the other owners constitutes damage to the municipal property and showed that the purpose of the law is to privatise the last remnants of the collective property of the agrarian communities. The majority of the members of the Committee agreed that the free transfer of municipal property to agrarian communities was inappropriate and the amendment was adopted by the Committee. Following the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted all amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members and, as a matter of fact, the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 43. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 11. The Committee did not define itself until the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left to Articles 13, 15, 20 and 42, because the non-admission of the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors made the United Left to Article 11 irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, it is a pleasure to share a few simple things with you. Position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for an Agrarian Community Act. The proposal for an agrarian law governs an area that has proved to be very problematic in practice. The biggest problem was the management, i.e. the management and disposal of members owned or sold by a larger number of persons. There are also such agrarian communities that have more than 300 co-owners. Thus, this common property became somehow dead, as it could not be managed without having the means to dispose of it. However, this was a major problem for the municipalities in particular, as there was no way they could obtain the consent of all owners or co-owners who were unattainable for various reasons. This blocked many projects on which the continued economic development of the municipalities depended. In the Desus Group, we particularly welcome the fact that the proposed solutions came from below, which means that from the very beginning the bill has been aligned with the agrarian communities, which means that their proposals and comments are taken as fully as possible into account. Therefore, in the Desus Group, the proposed text is an appropriate legal basis that will facilitate the management of agrarian communities and reduce the burden on their members through bureaucratic procedures and facilitate the resolution of most of the issues faced by agrarian communities, such as hereditary procedures. In particular, normal or simplified ownership management will be finally possible, ensuring the economic, social and environmental function of ownership. Let me briefly mention just a few things after our assessment of the most important solutions brought by this bill. As has already been said, the appropriate legal basis for the management of agricultural and forestry land owned by members of the agrarian community is regulated in such a way that members of the agrarian community will take decisions on land management by voting in the general assembly with a general majority of votes, i.e. 51 %, except for certain transactions for which a higher majority is envisaged. This, as assessed by the Desus Group, represents a substantial simplification of management, as agrarian communities will be better able to enter into business, such as the establishment of service, the conclusion of a lease or lease contract, the acquisition of a building permit, the cutting decision and so on. Agrarian communities will not be legal persons, but property communities, i.e. civil law companies, which will be through land management bodies whose common property are members. Some object to this solution, and in the Desus Group we view it as the most appropriate right now. The Agrarian Community will be able to take part in judicial, administrative and other proceedings before the State authorities and in legal traffic with third parties. The proposal also regulates the organisation of an agrarian community, i.e. bodies, elections of organs, membership, fundamental act and, according to our assessment, one of the most important innovations, is a single register of agrarian communities, which will be run by the department. Thus, according to our assessment, the bill brings many good solutions, but of course it is not perfect. In the Desus Group, we believe that the issue of taxation of agrarian communities will have to be settled over time, perhaps the Ministry could take into account the comments made by the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber in order for the agricultural community to be a taxable person, not that the tax is attributed to each of the co-owners or joint owners. The Desus Group supports the proposal of the law, because we believe it is mostly a good solution, while at the same time predicting that we will not support the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the parliamentary group we support the Agrarian Communities Act, of course it is a new system law, which is certainly a very important step in the legal regulation of agrarian communities. Let me remind you that in 1994 a law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities was adopted, but, if assessed from today's perspective, the procedure was carried out in a very demanding manner, as it was decided that the assets of agrarian communities should be returned to former members rather than to agrarian communities. Here is a very big problem in how to achieve sufficient consent in this co-ownership to be able to manage assets effectively, which represents as much as 3.67% of the total area in the Republic of Slovenia or 77 000 486 hectares of land owned by members of agrarian communities. Thus, it has often been impossible to reach 100 % of the consent of all owners in order to be able to manage this property wisely and efficiently, and this non-functional property has not only hampered the operation and maintenance of the purpose of agrarian communities, but has often prevented the acquisition of building permits for the necessary, for example, infrastructure facilities needed to make life easier in a particular environment. In the new context, the agricultural community will be defined as a property community of natural or legal persons who jointly manage immovable property through agrarian bodies. However, it is essential that the members of the agrarian community be certain important decisions related to the establishment of service or the conclusion of a lease or lease agreement, or the execution of a cut decision, or not least the acquisition of a building permit; therefore, all of these decisions will be taken at the general meetings by a majority of all the votes of the members of the agrarian community. Here we believe that this key shift has been made in order to avoid problems due to the co-ownership that was exposed in 1994. Of course, the most important decisions in agrarian communities are still taken with the consent of all members, especially when it comes to the sharing of property or the termination of an agrarian community. These are the most important decisions that remain within the purview of everyone. An important solution is also the succession process. Indeed, the property fragmentation of agrarian communities has also caused many difficulties because some members who were members did not actually know that they were members of an agrarian community, because of complicated succession procedures and in this law, this is being cleared in such a way that the property of an agrarian in an agrarian community can only be with one heir, but not, as has been the case so far, the possibility of inheriting all beneficiaries. This is also a very effective solution that will help to make governance actually more economical with this important asset. Last but not least, when we look at the interest and life of the Slovenians in exchange, this law also saves members of the agrarian communities living in Italy. It will again be possible for the immovable property held in Slovenia to be returned to the agricultural community, which is registered as a legal person in Italy, of course, while respecting the principle of interstate reciprocity. The important solution is also, however, that the processing of milk into cheese will be considered an agricultural activity to preserve and revive mountain farms and plantations, which means that members of the agrarian community do not have to register in a special way to carry out these activities. This is also a matter of taking into account our extremely important and valuable areas in order to simplify their lives in that space, so we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u10	Dear President, Dear Secretary, Dear Fellows and Fellow Members! The management of the assets of agrarian communities has been difficult in the past, as the state has restored property rights in the process of denationalisation to people who have not lived in Slovenia for a long time and are not affected by the management of the common assets. An even bigger problem has arisen when it comes to their heirs, who have never been to this village or even Slovenia in their lives, and they care little about the rural community. The fact is that the Law on the Re-establishment of Agricultural Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights was poorly written. Its sole purpose was to privatise assets that were maintained after II. World war, and in the spirit of sacred and untouchable private property, though the land of agrarian communities was never private, but always collective property, even before the march of so-called evil communism. Instead of either retaining the assets of agrarian communities in the denationalisation process as a national property, or putting them in charge of newly established agrarian communities, or transferring them as indivisible collective property, we had to impose a private property institution in the spirit of capitalism everywhere and for everyone here. We have thus come to the conclusion that these lands are no longer being decided by the community, but by individual owners, and this unanimously, which has for two decades made it very difficult to manage the assets of agrarian communities. Much better would be the arrangement whereby agrarian communities are regulated as cooperatives and the current owners of ownership shares would be their members. Thus, the property of the agrarian community would actually be owned by the agrarian community, but not divided by shares among these members of the agrarian community, but obviously because of the sanctity of private property and the denationalisation and privatisation spirit in the 1990s there was no longer possible and the current situation could no longer be changed in this direction. The proposed law of problems in the past does not solve and, in fact, merely determines how to further privatise agrarian communities. The solutions proposed are also poor for the United Left Group. Although the proposer repeatedly stresses the importance of the common assets of agrarian communities through history, sustainable management of agricultural and forest land, the common realization of the interests of the people in rural areas, the preservation of settlements and customs, and rural development, stressing not only the economic but also the social and environmental function of property, the law itself does not virtually mention any of this, but only offers a framework for managing the assets, with emphasis on the possibilities and ways to sell it. That is why we will not support this law in the United Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for an agrarian community law is new, it's a system law. Of course, we expect optimal regulation and will optimally regulate the difficult area of operation of agrarian communities. Currently, this area is governed by the law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities. In 1994, he returned property to members of agrarian communities, or their descendants, the heir. Its large shortcomings are inappropriate and excessively rigid arrangements for the management and disposal of the assets of members of agrarian communities. Today, agrarian communities account for over 77 thousand 400 hectares of land, representing approximately 3.7% of the total area of the Republic of Slovenia. In total, 638 agricultural communities are maintained in the registers of agricultural communities and the number of members of each agrarian community ranges from 3 to 513. On average, the agrarian community has almost 34 members. Most agrarian communities have an area of between 15 and 300 hectares. The largest agrarian communities are Stara Fužina, Studor, Trenta and Chessoča. This is just a few data pointing to an extremely important area that has long been subject to quality legal regulation. Christian Democrats know that agrarian communities are an important factor in rural life. Enable and participate in the preservation of the cultural landscape, by investing in the local environment allowing its development, connecting the rural population and, last but not least, preserving the population and thus Slovenian customs. We welcome and support the adoption of this umbrella law, but we must point out some comments which, despite the intense dialogue of the applicant with the various stakeholders, have not been taken into account when preparing the text. Above all, the people of Istria and Crassus warn us that unfortunately, due to the regulation of ownership and the long-term search for the descendants of the owners of the property, they have missed legal deadlines. These lands were therefore transferred to the ownership of local communities. These are not interested in being returned to agrarian communities, as many lands are economically and touristally attractive. Christian Democrats ask the proposer whether, however, it is not possible to regulate legally in the near future, for example, that such delays, which are not by their own fault, would allow an additional deadline for the restoration of agrarian communities. The bill also supports the association of representatives of agricultural communities and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which is very important to us. Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the MP Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Agrarian Community Act responds to the current problem of agricultural communities in Slovenia at the beginning of the 21st century. During the period when these were established, the collective uses of mountain or village pastures and forests were intended by the end of feudal relations and land withdrawal in the second half of the 19th century. The rights of use of the co-ownership share or share in the joint property were linked to the farm by size and transferred from generation to generation. In more than 150 years of history, agrarian communities have experienced different fates and legal changes. The circumstances that we are witnessing today stem from the Act on the Re-establishment of Agricultural Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights in 1994, by which the property has returned directly to members of former agricultural communities in the co-ownership or share of the common property. The management of assets and other provisions was governed by different legislation. The biggest obstacle to the management of agrarian communities was the provision of the Real Law on the consent of all co-owners or joint owners to transactions that exceed regular management. This has in practice not been feasible and ownership has not actually been managed. In 2011, the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities provided for an exception in this particular part, so that the consent of at least three quarters of the co-owners was sufficient for those transactions of public interest. How to prepare a legal basis that will allow the constitutional peacock of each member of the agrarian community to have an autonomous share in co-ownership or joint ownership and, on the other hand, to provide an economic, social and environmental function on that same property? In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that this law is what makes this possible today. Just as an agrarian community is a special and unique form of the property community of natural and legal persons with considerable limitations, a derogation from the above-mentioned positive legislation offering it the legal basis is essential. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Association of Representatives of the Agrarian Community, which were mostly taken into account, contributed to the draft law. Everyone estimates that marriage solutions are good and will actually enable economic management of the assets of agrarian communities. I suppose, however, that the need to change some of the legal solutions will only show up when it comes to life in practice, and we will also respond accordingly. We will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u16	Your Honor! The proposed Agrarian Community Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party will not be supported. The bill does not solve the essence of organising agrarian communities, which continue to remain a civil society of natural persons, and this makes management increasingly difficult. A much more appropriate organisation of agrarian communities would be in the form of a washed person, such as the organisation of all our neighbouring countries. However, management would be much easier and more useful in practice. The proposed law, however, makes it difficult, complicated and additionally bureaucratic by re-registration and a new register of agrarian communities, which means a great deal of work for the members of the agrarian communities themselves, as well as for all administrative units that will have to implement all these administrative procedures in a new way. The bill also provides an inappropriate arrangement for foreigners who are members of agrarian communities in the denationalisation processes themselves, which are not yet completed, the return of immovable property to the agrarian community in the neighbouring country, which is, of course, organised as a legal person, and here we draw attention to the national interest and the protection of our border belt. Nor is the tax regime in the bill appropriate and complicated. Agrarian communities in Slovenia represent 3.7% of the area with an average of 43 members per agrarian community, which of course is not negligible, and it is not appropriate to resolve this with a rather bad law. We have tabled two amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to draw attention to inappropriate content in this proposed law. Of course, we will not support this law, and practice itself will show very quickly that this Agrarian Community Act will return very soon to the parliamentary bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the two amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 22 September 2015. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. We do not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as he has already said in his position, because it seems to us that the mistakes made in the denationalisation process cannot be fixed in such an easy way because the country made a mistake. Indeed, as we have also heard from the views of other parliamentary groups, agrarian communities are over 150 years old. These are the weaker agricultural lands that Mary Teresa then gave to farmers, especially those who had livestock, so much so that they grazed on these lands. At the same time, they also regulated, maintained land, cut shrubs, and so on. They kept the cultural landscape. Every farm that had livestock had the right to do so, according to its size. The succession of this right was transferred from generation to generation to that of the one who was the holder of the farm forward. The State of Yugoslavia, I think in 1949, nationalized this and in 1994 gave it as a real, physical property to every individual member of this agrarian community. This was a big mistake. In the case already, even in the explanation of this law, it was mentioned that, in the event of the collapse of the agrarian community and the co-owners of the natural person, any natural person may require a partition. I don't know if we can, with one of the laws we have now adopted, eliminate someone and practically take away the property right that was granted to them by denationalisation. This is why it cannot be fixed in such a simple way now, because after this return, co-owners have also become heirs from overseas countries, who now have registered property, which is contrary to the basic or fundamental meaning of the agricultural community, that is to say that those who do business with agriculture do what they need, but do not have as their property, as a cadastral income on this property and pay income from it, although they have never had the same rights historically as this country has given them in denationalisation procedures with some stupid solution. And the problems all those owners who then contribute to these cadastral incomes paying higher incomes have problems and, of course, most of these members of the agrarian community have problems with wanting to intervene or manage this property, and they are hampered by those who are co-owners, physically, in the land book. The current law provides that, by a simple majority of these members of the agrarian community may be affected by their real right, property right. In our view, this is not the case, so we have also tabled these two amendments, where the law allows a certain number of members of the agrarian community to be present in the congregation or by the congregation, if they find that the injustice has happened to someone, there must be a certain number of incentives for this to change. In our view, when it comes to real rights under the Real Law, one member is sufficient — why a certain quantity? In some socialist way, because there is no other solution. Our view is that we must put the matter back into that basic original organisation and organise agrarian communities as legal persons, so that all owners have the right to manage, collectively, some right, as in neighbouring countries. The problem has already arisen when some foreign citizens are members of the agrarian community in our territory, but they do not want the Republic of Slovenia to give them back as a real right in the land book, but that their right to join an agricultural community in another country. How does it go together that some community that is part of Slovenia, such as the agricultural community of Rateca, which is one part on the Slovenian side, is one part on the Italian side; there are no obstacles on the Italian side; there are no finesse; there are no problems as regards taxation, as far as the sharing of some rent or some profit that has been created is concerned, and we are making it difficult for the Italian side only because the country, when it returned after the denationalisation procedures, did not look beyond the borders as it was regulated, and would be properly regulated with us. And more than that – because we believe that this correction now allows a few things, but some things not and complicates things further, that it will have to be fixed – we only have work, owners of costs and management is disrupted by these lands. Because we are stubborn; we have once gone and instead of taking a step back, we are going the right way, which would be the easiest thing to do, and it would be all arranged, we are now looking for some additions so that we can save better, but we cannot save if we respect the constitutional right to private property. But it's really hard to give someone a right, give them a right to private property in the land book, and suddenly say that we're going to take it away because we made a mistake. We have a bunch of other cases where the administrative unit in the denationalisation process has returned land where it was not entitled, and you no longer have the right to complain about it. That is why we will not support and warn, we appeal to the competent to overlook this and to correct it in some way, such as in the neighbouring countries, otherwise it is one mountain, the border across the mountain, on the one hand, the historical arrangement is 150 years old, and on the other hand, because of the incompetent officials, something has happened that only complicates things. I wonder what we'll do if some agrarian community ceases to exist. Under the Real Law, there's a plot, a division of property. Are we going to plot the mountain now with the geometry, make 500 plots out of one mountain and say, this is yours, this is yours? I don't know the other way around. I don't know if we can really fix this with one law. This law now also brings to the fore a number of injustices that agrarian communities and co-owners are alerting. But nobody wants to hear about it. When the problems build up, then we'll have some problems solved on the parliamentary benches again, and we'll act stupid as if we didn't know about it a year ago. That's not true. We don't want to see. It's like we're afraid of some historical arrangements that work well elsewhere, but they just can't work with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Although I understand the intention of the proposer of this amendment, I would like to point out the ridiculous inconsistencies, because at the meeting of the parent working body, colleague Žnidar said that the law is so bad that no amendment can help him, but now you are going and at the regular session to table two amendments. But it's okay. If we return to the amendment to Article 36. They now have the right to challenge the decisions of a general assembly of at least one fifth of the members, according to their own shares, and according to your amendment, every member of the agrarian community would have the right to challenge the decisions of the general assembly before a court. The fact is that the functioning of agrarian communities has already been severely distorted and hampered. In the event that each member would have the right to challenge the decisions before the court, we can rightly expect that this would completely undermine the functioning of the agrarian community, since the implementation of the decision, if the dispute has already been announced in the general assembly, is to be suspended until the action is brought or the legal decision is taken. Thus, any member may challenge an illegal decision in any way in a court of law, and in this case the functioning of the agrarian community would be both practically and virtually impossible if this were possible. But we will not support the amendment or the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 36, as it would give each member the right to challenge the decisions of the General Assembly before a court, and this law specifies that at least one fifth of the members may challenge the decisions in relation to shares in property. If the amendment had been adopted, it would in fact have been possible to block, redefinition, the functioning of the agrarian community and all the efforts that have been made to remedy this very weakness, because the property of the agrarian community has been transferred to the natural persons, thereby destroying the entire effort that we are trying to make possible the most cost-effective and efficient management of the assets of the agrarian community. In this context, it is also somehow contrary to what was presented as the position of the SDS Group, why do you not support the law because the co-ownership is still being maintained. On the other hand, this amendment gives each individual the opportunity to block this management. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that, however, in this law, the possibility is given if all members choose to establish a legal person and that all members then also transfer their real rights to the immovable and movable property of that legal person, in fact, they can also function as a legal person. Well, this law makes it possible. This is how the day follows, and if this decision is actually made, the legal person can also be established and thus the agricultural community can function in the same way as it could before the year or as it was at the very beginning and as other agricultural communities in neighbouring countries are somehow organised. However, as I have said, mainly because there is no blocking of the operation and destruction of the content of this law. I will not support the amendment to Article 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Ljub Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, let us read this paragraph again. Look what 36 says. Article: At least one fifth of the members shall have the right to challenge the decisions adopted in contravention of this Act before a court. Now let's see what this looks like in practice. This is said to be a challenge to those conclusions supported by one fifth, i.e. 20%, which are contrary to the law. If it is supported by 19%, even though it is contrary to the law, that is not the case. It's a legal entity. This is said to be valid only then, once in force, which are bound to the number, whether or not the decision is in accordance with the law. We have tied those conclusions exclusively to how many will be supported by these conclusions. It is clear to me that for decisions not directly bound by this law, there must be a majority. Such and different, depending on the weight of these conclusions. But when it comes to decisions that are contrary to the law, this is not going together. Yes, now, if it's against the law, if it supports 20%, then it's okay if it's supported by 19%, but then it's not against the law. Now tell me this difference between 20% and 19%. When it is 20%, it is not contrary to the law, but if it is 19%, it is. I mean, this is a unique practice in law enforcement. It's a unique. Read, there are other things added, but these things should be separated. It is necessary to separate and clearly states, "... which have also been adopted in contravention of this law or basic act or that the enforcement of the contested decision would cause damage to the member". These are different things! But for me, the first thing is the law. The rest of the arrangements then go on to do so. This is said to be a violation of the law up to a certain limit, but the law is not in breach of that limit. I mean, it's got to be separated. In my opinion, these doctrines are listed in this Decision or have such a weight that they do not go together. That's what we're warning you about. And if the conclusions are clear, look at the third line, "which were adopted in contravention of this law". [[…]] If it is contrary to this law, one member of the agrarian community can warn of this. Just one member. Why should 20% be in conflict with the law? This article is really about bringing important things together, mixing together with fundamental acts, laws and other agreements that the agrarian community would simply adopt. It is all about challenging these valid conclusions of the general assembly in one basket, but the difference is essential. If the law is broken, then there is no need for any number and no majority. That's what we're warning you about! This rule should apply absolutely irrespective of the number of members. Infringement of the law is a violation of the law, whether 20% of the members notice it or one member notices it. That's what we want to warn you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I can identify myself on behalf of the SMC Group until these amendments, I will look at some aspects of this law. The Agrarian Community Act, on the one hand, is solving an inadequate legal solution to agrarian property management and, on the other hand, we are trying to maintain the basic principles on which agrarian communities have also emerged. So, the law has managed to harmonise the preservation of common assets, individual property, respect for a long-standing tradition with solutions, so that property is preserved to restore its environmental and environmental function. Although it is not the aim of agrarian communities to generate profits, economic function is very important, as it somehow preserves the vitality of this common property. One of the most important co-founders of this law is the Association of Representatives of the Agrarian Community, which, after adoption on the parental committee, announces that the legal solutions are appropriate and that they support it. The law also supports the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, but I agree that some solutions cannot be regulated by the law because it is not permitted by any other legislation. It is not possible to pool natural persons into total income because each natural person is taxed on the basis of generated income. This is the current system of income in Slovenia, so at the moment the law does not solve the tax problem. Derogations from positive legislation were urgently needed in most of the provisions, such as a lower level of consensus in transactions exceeding regular management, which has so far been a key obstacle to some normal business and property management. For the sake of the idea that this decision is somehow about reducing the right to private property, we believe that it is not sustainable because ownership in agrarian communities is an extremely present element of the public, as it is historically a common land of villages, which are important in terms of the whole of Slovenian agriculture. The greater the public interest, the greater the right of the community to restrict the individual's ownership right. In the light of what I am now mentioning, we simply cannot support the amendment to Article 36 of the Law, which regulates the right to vote on a minority. If I take another look at what Mr Žnidar has said, I would point out or read again this article or part of the article, which states that it has the right - i.e. one-fifth of the members - to have a share in the property, which is also important - to challenge the conclusions of the general assembly before a court if they consider that they have been adopted in contravention of this law. This means that they are not necessarily contrary to this law; therefore, if they so think, if they consider this part to be, say, very important in this article. So one fifth of the members are, according to shares in the co-ownership or shares in the joint property, the one who, in our opinion, is sufficiently protecting the property rights of the individual. A very important provision, which also derogates from existing legislation and specifically protects property as a whole, prevents further fragmentation and contributes to greater and more permanent processing of agricultural land, is a pre-emptive right or a specific order of persons who may under the same conditions have the advantage of purchasing. It is precisely because of this provision that there is an urgent need to limit the conclusion of the gift contract, which is the content of the second amendment, according to the circle of persons who may be gifted. The members of the agrarian community may transfer their share by a gift contract to their immediate relatives and to the agrarian community. In fact, all members then receive the same share in real estate. We will not support this amendment in the SMC Group of Members. This is how we fully support the law, but not the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Strnisha, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Allow me first to define myself for the proposed amendment to Article 36. Let me say what is the purpose of this Article, which governs the right or the possibility of an appeal against a decision for a voting minority. In terms of the protection of the interests of individual members of the agrarian community against the harmful consequences that binding decisions of the general assembly would have had on them, it would be contrary to their view, however, to the effect that such decisions would be contrary to the law or the basic act or would have caused injury to members, it is said that such a decision could be challenged before the court within six months. If they announce this at the General Assembly, the application to the Court must be made within 15 days and such a decision shall be retained until the court's decision is final. Here it should be stressed that this text has also been closely aligned with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and also on the Committee in this editorial sense has been amended to refer to the challenge and the challenge of the decision. If a decision had been taken in a way that would have been more serious in order to, for example, as the cases had been given, not even the required majority provided for by law, such a decision would have been null and void. This law is without prejudice to general rules, according to the Bond Code, which provides that the determination of the nullity of such a decision may be required by any member. Thus, the nullity of the decision in the event of worse infringements may be required by any member. I think that we feel the same way here and that this is not the kind of difference. I also say that such regulation of this voting minority is also known from Austrian rules or from the Austrian system of operation of agrarian communities. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take this opportunity to answer some other questions and arguments. What if I stay here for the time being with the comments and questions raised by the SDS Group? It is likely that all of us in the Hall agree that the original sin of 1994 cannot be rectified. This law and regulations, as adopted by the then State Assembly, when the property has been returned to the natural persons and has become a common property or the common property of the natural persons, cannot be affected. The debate on whether this property could be transferred to legal persons was the first debate we had with agrarian communities. Many members have suggested this. Some agrarian communities have long insisted on such a solution. But this would be a very serious and certainly constitutionally controversial intervention in the private property of those persons to whom ownership was transferred at the time, as Mr Lah himself said or pointed out the sensitivity of the property issue. I must also explain that for agrarian communities that are owned by foreigners and procedures are not yet completed and that this property will now be returned to their legal person; here two should be stressed. The agricultural community, as owner of these lands, will, of course, be included in our land book, in Slovenian land books and is not transported anywhere. That's the first one. And secondly, these cases are subject to a ban on the alienation of the agrarian community, which will be returned to them in such a way, to their legal persons – they must not sell these properties. I'd like to say more about the distribution of assets. The distribution of assets may require 75 % of the members of agrarian communities or, depending on the area or the share they have, 75 % of the shares or the owners of the shares may be required to share. One can demand division alone or one can demand division where one share is greater than 50%, because of course this would mean that whoever has — say, if it is a congregation — can practically control even an agrarian community. In this case, this division may be required. I would like to answer another question or comment put by the New Slovenia Group. This is also a question that we have been dealing with a lot. In view of what happened to those agrarian communities that did not require a return on property and that property came after marriage to the congregations. The period for the exercise of this right has been extended several times and expired. June 30, 2001. This is a time-limit which can no longer be extended after its expiry. This is another issue that we cannot solve after fourteen years with this law. Of course, legal consequences arose after that deadline, which was last extended until 2001. This was returned to the congregations, or this property is now in the congregations, and with such arrangements or repetitive action, we could do new irreparable damage. I think that these are the key issues that have been raised, and I may only touch on the question of why we are not addressing the specific or easier tax status of agrarian communities. We have had long coordination and we have sought solutions together with the Ministry of Finance to how this could be possible. Agrarian communities are communities of natural persons, therefore taxes cannot be passed on to the community as such and remain taxable to pay the tax, in particular the cadastral income tax, of natural persons, are said to be people who are members of these agrarian communities. Perhaps we will consider specific treatment of agrarian communities in each treatment of tax laws. In this law, as has already been pointed out in my opening presentation, however, we have achieved one tax relief or simplification; that is, agrarian communities dealing with primary milk production in mountains and pastures will be able to carry out this activity within the framework of agricultural activity, meaning that their members will be taxed only on cadastral income, even if they have this primary processing on the mountains and will be selling processed milk there; that is, cheese, succinct or anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you. I'm just going to give a brief explanation. The main answer was to this dilemma when the decision was taken in contravention of the law, but it would point out, however, that the amendment to Article 36 states that if any member considers that it is contrary to the law, he may bring proceedings before a court and the court will decide whether the decision is contrary to the law or not. Then, of course, not the individual’s decision as presented, and of course not at least one fifth of the members’ decision, but the court decides on it. However, if the court decides, of course, at least one fifth of the members will be able to initiate proceedings with this proposal — if they consider it to be contrary to the law. Actually, the word "if" was released in the interpretation, and I think it's important to note that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u32	I just want to point out what the secretary of state said the Austrians have the same. The Austrians do not have this property distributed and the individuals entered in the land book, that is a significant difference. There is an agrarian community a legal person, in which case this can be done. You can't put this in our case right now because the state gave ownership to every co-owner. And property rights are sacred to us, that is the Constitution, and on the other hand, the law allows for the organization of an agrarian community into a legal person, if all are in favour. Tell me how the one from Australia is going to be in. The basic arrangement was that from the time of Mary Teresa the one on this land has so many cows, sheep, goats, and I don't know what else; the more you have, the more you have rights. Now the property rights of those in America, Australia, have nothing to do with agriculture. Why wouldn't the country have property and the agrarian community have the right to use it as it used to be? However, if an agrarian community wants to build a dairy or a facility there, the state should give building rights and the matter should be settled. But now there are major problems, as a colleague from the SMC said before, with income, because we have such a law, of course, and on the other hand we can make decisions with a simple majority about what not to know, and also gift contracts, so that there will be no dispersion, because those with only costs, such and other, do not benefit this land, will have a purpose to get rid of it. On the other hand, it is possible for someone to take an interest in making these small shares in some way and to become the owner of the land book of a majority share of some property, which has been state for centuries – "no one's and no one's" was said in the former country. The intensity of the return was then, in 1994, in that someone speculated that it would be in such a way that most of these owners no longer benefit from this land, they would want to do half for free of this "loss". On the other hand, someone will see the interest — La Planica and similar parcels — and this law will give them the opportunity to go to a legal person. But everyone has to be in! Why isn't there a two-thirds majority?Oh, my God! Why is it that 100 % of owners are not required in the case of a composting, a simple composting of agricultural land? It's two-thirds or, what is now, three-quarters. And it interferes with the property rights of each individual owner in that comassation area! They must all be here to organize themselves into a legal entity. Something stinks to me here. Please say that three quarters, as in the case of a simple Commission, should be able to make decisions with such a majority that they can organise themselves as a legal person, but I believe that a number of people will, because they will not have problems with income, with all the problems or costs they have in some social contributions. We know what it means to have a cadastral income, that someone pays a cadastral income from a mountain there, Kredar and I don't know what else – it's also Triglav, I think, inside. It's not going together! I don't think it's going together, and it's in violation of the Real Law, and I think it's also the Constitution. I don't know, but it's not fair if those lands have always been used by those who had livestock, why are they now entitled to property rights by those who have inherited, who have nothing to do with it, and who have nothing to do with it, and who have nothing to do with it, only the costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u34	The Honourable Secretary of State has provided information that, in the event of a serious breach, any individual may challenge it. If I understand correctly. Worse breaches of the law, in short, are contrary to this law. What's worse is, I'd say, it's very difficult to distinguish. But I think, I'd say with some feeling, too, because it was said, "if I do." It is also not possible to prove certain contradictions with the law, but with strict clear evidence. That's not how it's about feeling here or "if someone's feeling to me." That's, I think, a major difference. The law itself, if you remember at the hearing in 2012, Minister Židan then presented this area himself and directed that in the future the status regulation of the agrarian community should be transformed into legal persons, just as our neighbouring countries have. In short, it would have been easier done this way, but today the same minister comes with a different law or, I would say, stays on the old law, which is pretty bad. It should be borne in mind that the law must also live in practice. Tell me if there has already been any commotion in the field of agricultural communities in Slovenia. I doubt it, because it's practically impossible to perform. This law is completely avoided in the tax and income fields. Let me give you an example. Imagine that the country wants to distribute 300 euros among 169 owners of the agrarian community, and it spends 700 euros to do so. It's for immaterial cost, it's rationality! There's a lot of such anomalies in this marriage. This is demonstrated by practice and facts. This practice will show very quickly and, as in the opening presentation, I now repeat that this law will soon be back on the parliamentary benches, because this law, in practice, in such a form, with such bureaucratic and difficult management – these owners of the agrarian community will soon encounter major problems. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? So there's no wish. Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. With this, I'm breaking this point. [[…]] I'm sorry. I am putting to the debate article 43 of the bill. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar and then Mrs. Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u36	Your Honor! I understand very well the basic purpose of agrarian communities, that is to protect the land, that it is processed, that it is protected and that in fact those engaged in basic agricultural activities are also protecting and processing these land. Article 43 provides for the transfer of property rights in different cases. But a case has been released, like what I'm going to say, which can appear in practice. How can a new co-owner come into the agrarian community? That's not what this law requires. Now imagine that this new co-owner, who is of course a farmer, deals with basic agricultural activity, or is surrounded by the land of the agrarian community, or is a frontier of the agrarian community, there is no way to join this agrarian community. Tell me, which law governs this or which article? Which article regulates this? Here it is possible to actually include an agricultural holding dealing with a basic agricultural activity as a member of the agrarian community. Here's the option. Tell me, where does this possibility exist in marriage?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u37	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. This law actually solves the misdenationalisation and all these procedures from the early 1990s. Agrarian communities are today organised as some kind of shareholding company where members have ownership shares or shares and are far from being organisations for collective property management, such as the original purpose of agrarian communities. And this is no longer the case, since the early 1990s there are only agrarian shareholders, but no one hopes to call it the real name, although the fundamental purpose of the agrarian communities is to preserve the assets of its members for future generations, to strengthen the common realization of the interests of the rural population and, in particular, the permanent processing of agricultural land. The law in Article 31 already partially opens the door for the sale of agrarian property. While the article is restrictive in its spirit, it allows the sale of building land, the law does not prohibit or restrict the retraining of agricultural land to buildings in any way. The article thus opens the door for the privatisation of the property of the agrarian community, in particular of building land, which, of course, is worth much more than agricultural land. Let me return to the amendment to Article 43, where the SDS wishes to extend the right to transfer the ownership share by a gift contract to all those having registered agricultural activity. In doing so, you claim that the beneficiary circle is too narrow. Now the gift contract for the transfer of the ownership share can be concluded by the owners only with the immediate family members, it is said to be the spouse, children or parents and with the agrarian community, and this is the only, according to our, meaningful arrangement. The amendment proposed in the SDS introduces a circuit around the preliminary right to sell shares in the agrarian community. The agricultural community, members of the agrarian community and members of accession and natural persons from the same municipality shall now have the right to these shares. It is so difficult for someone to sell their share at a price to anyone. After this amendment, in fact, it is possible to trade practically unlimited shares among all those engaged in agricultural activities. The government has already set in law the possibility of privatising agrarian communities and transforming them into some kind of d. o. Your amendment is expanding this option, so we will not support this amendment in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u39	The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Perhaps the first answer to the question of how a farmer can become a member of an agrarian community, and one farm in a village is not a member of an agrarian community. This issue is on the table and we also addressed it in Article 11 of the Act, which speaks of accession members. Accession members shall be an institution governed by each agrarian community itself in its basic act, which may or may not provide for this possibility. Then the general assembly of the agrarian community can accept and resolve these accession members, or they may be deprived of that status. However, the purpose of this Institute of Accession is to have a preliminary right when a certain member of the agrarian community sells his co-ownership. Then we get to this 43rd paragraph. Only the preliminary right is governed by Article 32, which states – earlier there was a speech, Mrs Violeta Tomić said when an agrarian community can sell, say, a parcel, because in principle their property is irresistible or indivisible, they must not sell it in principle, they must remain owned by agrarian communities, and the law states in Article 41 that certain exceptions should be made so that we are only viable. If it is a sale of building land, why should building land be owned by an agrarian community, why should we not sell it to, say, the congregation if it needs it? It may then sell agricultural land if dislocated if it does not have physical contact with the rest of the agrarian property and is not more than half a hectare. The same way, if it is a forest land that has no contact with the other complex, it does not exceed one hectare. Then, when it comes to lands that the congregation would need for certain public purposes, and so forth. So, only in exceptional cases can an agrarian community sell a building, we said, whether it's agricultural land or forest land. In exceptional cases. Then we're talking about membership. An agrarian community with multiple members has its share — when you can be sold and how. This sale is free, we have not interfered with this right. Anyone who has a share in the agrarian community can sell that share. However, we have regulated a preliminary right by law in order not to sell these shares to people who have no interest in those villages where they do not live, which are not farmers. This priority order states that the first preliminary right is enjoyed by the agrarian community. It can buy this share from one and then increase the proportional share of all remaining members in this way. The other pre-purchase beneficiary is a member of the agrarian community, the same agrarian communities, of course. Then we come to this accession member when you ask how a farmer in the village should come to the agrarian community. The Agrarian Community, if it has the option in the basic act to appoint members of accession, we have not determined by law how much, then such an application for accession membership can be considered, it can be accepted; it is said that the members themselves decide on this at the general assembly whether they will accept someone among the members of accession or not. If someone is an accession member, he is third in line as a pre-purchase beneficiary, as a category, of course. If, of course, there are several members of the agrarian community of interest, then they are in front of him. Fourthly, she is a natural person who has a permanent residence in the municipality where the agrarian community lies. Now we come to Article 43, which is proposed by the amendment and talks about the restriction on the conclusion of a generous contract. See, the pre-emptive right is nothing if it can be circumvented by a gift contract. Because we, whoever, can agree that you give me something and then it's not a priority order. For this reason, we have a limited scope in the Agricultural Lands Act with which to conclude a gift contract. Specifically, this law, which we are considering today, provides for this in its 43rd Article, and this is a closer family relationship, which is the same as in the Agricultural Lands Act or comparable. Beyond that, of course, it is not possible to conclude a gift contract because then the agrarian community has an accession member, but one of the members would have decided to give his share to someone and then the whole order would have walked. The aim is to retain these membership shares, if sold, in those who actively participate in the agrarian community. Thus, in the case of active members of the agrarian community, either of the accession members who wish to do so or only then in the 4th indent, for example, of other natural persons living there. In short, I wanted to explain why this amendment would essentially mean the whole regime, which is determined by this law, how to ensure that this property is not shared by members and, above all, that it does not come into the hands of people who do not have an agrarian community to do it. Of course, this was done by the 1994 law, we all agree. The 1994 law has made a state that is being regulated in some way today, so that it can be managed at all, but we cannot fix it. We cannot change this fact that today, in these agrarian communities, there are members of people who have nothing more to do with this community. That is why we have these articles, which I have just described, and the Government believes that this proposed arrangement achieves this purpose here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u41	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Since the Secretary of State has already mentioned the Institute of Accession, I should refer to it, because we wanted to delete this institution with our amendments, but the coalition, unfortunately, rejected our amendments to this topic. The only function that accession members have is the prior right to sell ownership shares of members of agrarian communities. In the event that they become owners of these shares and in the case of the division of assets under Article 55 of this Law, a certain part of the property also belongs. This means that the purchase of ownership shares actually buys agricultural areas and bypasses the pre-purchase right as set out in Article 23 of the Agricultural Lands Act. So, if there are more accession members, then they have the advantage to buy those who have become sooner. So, by logic, whoever comes sooner is grinding. Only the agrarian community, i.e. all members of the agrarian community, and individual members of the agrarian community, shall have a preliminary right before accession members. The Ministry objected to the argument that this institution was actually preventing anyone from buying the land because members of the agrarian community had to approve the accessions, but it did not. There are no restrictions on how to become an accession member here. This could be Cinven or something. It is naive to believe and think that members will always act solely and exclusively for the benefit of the agrarian community. Moreover, we cannot expect all farmers bordering the land of agrarian communities to be priority purchasers for the sale of agricultural land under the Agricultural Lands Act, which is part of this agricultural community, only because there will be a once-in-a-lifetime sharing of assets in the agricultural community and that is the only way to round up their agricultural land. So, unfortunately, at the board meeting, we wanted to delete this institute, and we were, of course, over-voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u43	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u44	Your Honor! In Article 43 of this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the following. We understand very well that the property of agrarian communities is protected by a preliminary order. We also understand that a particular succession must be respected and that this protects the property itself. Now I'm going to give, say, a specific case. The master finds that there is actually no inheritance on his farm. He cannot transfer the share of the agricultural community under a gift contract because he is not in line with the order of succession in this law. That is to say, here we have ruled out this possibility or such a case in practice. You also say there may be associate members. Tell me where in agrarian communities the number of members has increased. Nowhere, it's shrinking or it's going to. It will now begin to decline when this law enters into force, because, in fact, the agricultural economies themselves will not see any more economics or any sense of having property in such a community. In short, for example, we wanted to point out here because this is a specific case, and we certainly understand how this common property must be protected in this agricultural community. But such an example, which I have mentioned, cannot be solved where agriculture does not have an inheritance and cannot be inherited from another natural person who is also engaged in agricultural activities because it is not in accordance with the law according to his regular – I mean after inheritance. That's what we wanted to warn you about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u45	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u46	Everything else I've told you, I'm gonna speculate a little bit. Thirty years ago, there were three quarters of farms in one village that gave milk and had livestock. Now we find that there are still a few percent. For the basic purpose of the agrarian communities, only those who have the livestock they use would have the right to use this land. That's 5% if we follow this law, in that congregation. Now, however, we have given ownership rights to all those who once used this land property right. Of these members, only a third of them may still be involved in agriculture and take a decision at the assembly, because tourists go there and the cows leave their excrements, this affects tourism negatively, and they decide that cows will no longer graze. Most conclude that they no longer benefit from this because they no longer deal with agriculture. We've destroyed the core activity. But it is the interest of those two-thirds to exclude the majority, with the income law, about the cadastral is only a cost, they are deprived of social benefits and will simply say that they will no longer, they are excluded because they have no benefit; they have no cows, no sheep, no goats, no horses, nothing. And the number of these has been reduced to a minimum, to 2% of all. What happens then? That instead of 200, two of the physical owners of all of this land could be registered in the land book. Then the congregation takes a spatial act to the building site, one by one and another — and where did we come from? If I'm still speculating that someone had an appetite in 1994 in some way to get to ownership. If you followed the basic purpose of agrarian communities, there's no way you can. But if you put the equity shares in the land book, then you can come to this by pooling together, like small shareholders from the company, you get out, you get out of these members of the agrarian community, and you get to own it. They used to be townspeople, then they were Austrians, the state, but now they're going to, instead of giving the country some right to use these lands to those who really need them, they're going to own some individuals for some other purpose. But land, go see how it's treated in Italy by agrarian communities and how it is with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u47	The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Let me explain two things. First of all, the question is, what is the situation where a member of the agrarian community does not have any heirs to his or her share? The second indent of the second paragraph of Article 43 shows that a gift contract is possible. Maybe it's a gift contract to conclude with an agrarian community. Thus, a member may grant his share to the agrarian community, making it possible to grow up to all other members. Then your comment that the number of members of the agrarian community is falling. As a result of inheritance, the number of members is increasing. As we look at how many have changed in individual agrarian communities, the number of members has increased. The more fragmented membership and shares, the faster it grows. That is precisely why this problem of obtaining 100% of the consents increased from year to year, and that is why the wishes and requests from the field were so strong that we will still allow something to be done to move anything in these agrarian communities. In order not to increase this number of members, as I mentioned in the introductory presentation, we have set a way of inheriting according to the rule of one heir. That I am not too long, in the same way as for the protection of one farm, only one heir to a member's share may be in accordance with this law. The law determines how this heir, but at least some basis, is determined. It also provides that the other heirs, that this right to an emergency share, or some law, provides for a sub-legislative provision setting out a methodology for the maximum value of that share, so as not to impose too much burden on the heirs by paying off the other heirs. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u49	Anybody else want to discuss this? Don't you? Mr. Simon Zajc, please. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. In this debate we have seen what we are all aware of: the original sin is 1994. We know that, and now we have this condition that's not pink. For 20 years it has shown what is wrong, now with this law we are trying to get it into such a form that it will be possible for agrarian communities to do something to make those who are members of agrarian communities of what they have, that it will not be dead property. We can't go back. But now we can't take this land from them and create legal entities because we have ownership rights in the constitution and it's impossible to do so. Thus, this law really makes it possible to manage this property that these coowners have. As far as the reduction of members is concerned. If it's shrinking, thank God it's shrinking, because we've already found out today that this is a problem, that you have these members in Australia, in America, I don't know where everyone who doesn't care about this, and thank God that you'll now be able to decide – or because you'd already – that they'd give it up and that the members are only those who live in this area because they can sell either agrarian communities or members who are in the agrarian community or associated members. Why do I think it's a good idea that we have an associated member? Just because you mentioned it. Those who are borderline there have an interest that this agrarian community works well and that it could join us, we must let a security guard come along, but at the same time we cannot support this amendment, because we are afraid that there will be more speculation than these cases, that someone will not have heirs and that there will be damage done. That is why we will not support this amendment, but the law is a very big step forward in the given situation. I agree, however, that there will probably also be some things that will not work, and it will have to be corrected, and the problem is those taxes, which are not essentially the substance of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u51	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Let me mention something else. However, from the point of view of the privatisation of agrarian communities, the most problematic provision of Article 3 43 was that the municipality which is a member of an agrarian community may, free of charge, transfer its co-ownership share to the property of the members for the benefit of the agrarian community of which it is a member. In this provision, there was a mechanism under which the last part of the property, which was actually still collective, could be transferred free of charge to members of the agrarian community, which can then have any kind of possession, establishment of d. o. o. and whatever they do with it, sale or market. Fortunately, our adopted amendment deleted that provision. Under Article 54, the law also introduces the possibility of transforming an agrarian community into a legal person if members unanimously adopt the appropriate act establishing a legal person. Thus, we can now expect the growth of diverse parts, which, as we have heard before, is not necessarily to be agrarian at all, and thus we will lose the last common property represented by agrarian communities. I had so much to say today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u53	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. IT IS ANOTHER DETAILED PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PROTECTION LAW BEFORE IONIZING SEVANCE AND NUCLEAR SECURITY, A Regular Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u54	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal to amend the law governing nuclear safety and radiation protection in Slovenia. Initially, I am pleased to find that we have had no major problems in this area in our country over the past years and decades. With the existing law adopted in 2002, we have set up a legislative framework that is very well aligned with international standards and best global practice. Our largest nuclear facility, Krško Nuclear Power Plant, is producing electricity safely for us. At the Institute Jožef Stefan uses the research reactor triga, our radioactive waste is carefully stored in the warehouse in Brinj, procedures for the construction of the final landfill are running, money for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and the disposal of its waste is collected, several hundred users safely use different sources of radiation in their economic or other activities, we closely monitor the radioactivity in the environment, especially the burdens with radon and the long story of Rudnik Žirovski vrh are slowly ending. Of course, the world is changing. New proposals are emerging in the international field, and we recognize the possibilities for further improvements ourselves. Therefore, we have before us a proposal to amend the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Security, with which we want to correct in particular the following. We propose simplification of some administrative procedures: we combine the validation of the radiation protection assessment and the authorisation of radiation activity into one administrative procedure; we simplify the issue of radiation sources licences; the acquisition of the registration certificate in the radiation sources register will no longer be an administrative decision, but rather a very simple certificate. In the case of administrative procedures for issuing the most demanding licences, we propose the possibility of the investor gradually delivering the necessary documentation. We are proposing a number of changes based on nuclear accident studies in Fukushima and on stress tests carried out in Europe; two new articles on the project bases of a nuclear facility; amendments to the provisions on the nuclear facility management system; provisions on the monitoring of the adequacy of the equipment procured; amendments to the provisions on the State Economic Service for the management of radioactive waste and the control of landfills, which will clarify the role and obligations of the Agency for Radioactive Waste. We propose several amendments to the provisions on the security verification of persons working in nuclear facilities, in particular with regard to the verification of foreigners. We propose even smaller changes, which represent minor editorial corrections and remedying the minor shortcomings that have emerged at the time of application of the law. An amendment was also proposed before or before this meeting of the National Assembly, which should provide that the operating authorisation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant should be aligned with this law. In principle, the proposer agrees with the purpose of this amendment, as he himself found that the 2002 law did not adequately address this problem. Our nuclear safety management has recognized this flaw in the past years and, following an official duty, modified the operating permit of the 1984 Krška Nuclear Power Plant, so that the revised authorisation is now in line with the provisions of this law. The proposer therefore considers that the proposed supplement is unnecessary, but if it is adopted, we can now be pleased to announce that the new provision has already been fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u55	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u56	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, Honourable Director, Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 12th meeting, on 3. 9. 2015 As a parent working body, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister for Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, pointed out that the proposal for a law contains simplifications of certain administrative procedures such as simplification of the issue and review and modification of the radiation protection assessment, a clearer role of the authorised radiation protection expert in reviewing the most important documents, simplification of the authorisation of radiation sources, and elimination of the receipt of the certificate of entry into the radiation sources register as a specific legal decision, and instead merely provides for the entry into the register under a much simplified procedure. In addition, several amendments to the provisions are proposed as a result of new knowledge of the Fukushima nuclear accident and of the stress tests carried out in Europe. In this regard, two new articles on the project bases of a nuclear facility are added, the provisions on the nuclear facility management system and the provisions governing the implementation of various national economic services are amended and the obligations of the Agency for Radioactive Waste are clarified and the definition of a closed landfill which acquires this status by decision is proposed and subject to certain rules. However, the provision relating to the construction of a new nuclear facility suggests that the investor be able to provide the administrative authority responsible for nuclear safety with the documentation necessary to obtain an agreement on the building permit. In accordance with its competences, the Legislative and Legal Service gave its opinion and made some comments to individual articles. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the comments raised were taken into account to a greater extent in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and that further clarifications were provided by the applicant. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and expressed support for the proposed content of the amendment. In the discussion on the content of the proposal, the provision of Article 56, which amends Article 77, which provides for the most professionally demanding and the longest administrative procedures, including the procedure for granting consent to the construction of a new nuclear power plant, proposes an exemption from the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act to allow the authorities to deal with formally complete applications and allows the delivery of documentation by works. In this regard, the question was raised whether one of the purposes of this provision is also to simplify the procedures for the start of the construction of the second block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The Minister of the Environment explained that the main purpose of the provision is to derive from some of the findings and findings of the Fukushima nuclear accident, which have shown that, in terms of ensuring greater safety of the existing nuclear facility, it is necessary to build some new monitoring facilities to this end. However, the scope of the entire documentation for the construction of such buildings is so extensive that the administrative authority takes several years to review it and the proposed provision will shorten the procedure slightly. The content of Article 110 of the current law has also been highlighted, which provides, inter alia, that a nuclear facility must have a permit which also defines the time-limit for operation. This shall be issued for a maximum of 10 years. In this respect, it was pointed out that NEK started operating in 1983. The expected 40-year period of operation will expire in 2023 and the current authorisation for its operation does not have a time limit. It was clarified by the Director of the Republic of Slovenia Nuclear Safety Administration that, in this regard, the basic law of 2002 does not contain a provision which would provide for a time limit for the operation of nuclear facilities which had their operating permits prior to its adoption, but the law does contain a provision under which NEK must carry out periodic security checks of the facility and, at each time, prepare a report and give it to the Administration for approval. The periodic safety review shall take place every 10 years. However, following the last security review in 2013, the operating authorisation was amended following the official duty in addition to the approval of the report. The current operating authorisation shall contain such a statement that it is conditional on its renewal to be confirmed by the next periodic safety review report, which means that, at the moment, the NEC is authorised to operate until 2023, when the next periodic safety review is scheduled. The Committee voted after the discussion and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. He also accepted two of his amendments to Articles 103 and 104. The Committee then voted on all the articles together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u57	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u58	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary-General. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an extensive novel, which, in essence, does not change the spirit of the existing law, but deals on the one hand with simplifications in administrative procedures and on the other hand with the issue of radiation and nuclear safety. Thus, in the point of administrative procedures, it removes the duality of these procedures, further limits the powers of the Agency, users and simplifies procedures when it comes to type-setting devices, and this also applies to installations which have been previously verified in the field of the European Union. At the point of radiation safety and nuclear safety, of course, it follows the experiences and lessons of the Fukushima accident, which is particularly important for Europe, at least in the debate on nuclear safety. Europe has a large number of nuclear power plants, which are extremely safe and technologically not disputed in this respect. However, it is important to welcome the ministry's efforts to update the management and control systems of installed equipment, especially when it comes to the purchase of new equipment, despite the fact that we have not seen these accidents in the past period or in recent decades. We therefore welcome the new rules in the verification of persons who are not residents of the Republic of Slovenia. If I summarize in a short sentence; we support the proposed novel, which is relatively extensive for two reasons: because it removes many bureaucratic obstacles and because it increases the standard of security in this area in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u59	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, respectable director, respectable council! The United Left will not support this amendment for a number of reasons. The first reason is the so-called nomotechnical nature. In 2008, if I am not mistaken, a recommendation was adopted on nomotechnics – for perhaps a little unsolicited, rules on how to write and make laws. This rule states that if more than a third of the articles of a law are amended, a new law is to be written. This 4th amendment of this Act amends 100 articles. This proposal even recognises and writes that if we go into this, 21 out of 28 sub-laws should be amended. In short, this means about as we would have been told in Parliament at the meetings of the parental committees that we would reject three quarters of the proposed legislative changes, because it simply does not work for us if I put it that badly. We can't support the way this law was introduced because I don't know, but obviously the government law-law service either didn't read it or its recommendations weren't taken into account, because even in one point the law was unconstitutional, and then the coalition somehow amended it. In short, this gives us a violation of basic nomotechnical principles, some amendment, a little unfortunate. We can't accept it for some substantive reasons either. Why? If you observe some developments in the public media, somehow this law and also the report of the State Council almost takes as a condition that NEK 2 will work. This is a matter for a broader debate. Today we heard a debate on security for 10 hours. It's nice to talk about debarcation, but on the other hand, we have security, how we're going to connect it somehow. We do not support it either because of a very important fact, due to an amendment that took place during the meeting itself. Recently, Slovenia was relatively high, ranked 15th in one index, which looked at the transparency of public finances, budgets. How the budget is accepted, whether it is transparent or not. After us Georgia was 16th and in this composite index we received the most points in the account, if I may say so, of the Court of Auditors. And what happened? The original novel of this law took into account some recommendations made by the Court of Auditors regarding the so-called nuclear rent, and then apparently you were somehow intimidated by the mayor's lobby – you might have a little bit of a gibbish where Mr Cerar's partner is from, and I will not. And then the members of the coalition during the meeting of the parental committee resumed the matter. In short, I don't know if we have a bit of decoration or take seriously the Court of Auditors' recommendation. The Court of Auditors is not a police officer, it is not some prosecutor, if I put it that way, but in fact, it is supposed to look at some irregularities, mishaps in our legislation, in implementation, it is supposed to make some recommendations that we should then follow. We're kind of, in fact, or you're kind of beating it with a fig in your pocket. One thing that I will talk more about when I present a brief amendment, which has been presented by Mr Zorčič as well as by Mrs Zorčič – I hope that he will somehow be adopted – because it is some of the important topics that need to be discussed in public, but not that some of the interests of the nuclear lobby that will be built by NEK 2. In short, this is a series of reasons why the United Left will not oppose or support this amendment of laws. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u61	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! Slovenians have been living with a nuclear power plant for 32 years and it is likely that this will be the case after 2023, when the 40-year operation is foreseen. So far, we have been lucky, the karst power plant operates without any major deviations from normal operation and, as the report of the Slovenian Nuclear Safety Authority on the protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety for 2014, this year has been one of the most peaceful recently. Due to the many nuclear accidents in the world that have not been rare in recent years, owners have also approved investments in the multi-annual upgrade of this power plant. This place is too much to discuss the consequences of a nuclear accident. That is why protection against ionizing radiation and nuclear safety is of utmost importance not only to us but to all mankind. Any amendment or amendment to the law would bring added value, upgrade and improvement of the applicable regulation. And what does today's fourth novel of the marriage bring? Almost every article has been amended, as in the last amendment, and the law is becoming imprecise even for those to whom it is intended. It would be much easier for the Government to draft a new law, as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly suggested in its opinion. Of course, some proposed simplifications of administrative procedures are welcome, in particular with regard to obtaining a radiation protection assessment as a key document to obtain authorisation to carry out radiation activity and to register radiation sources under a simplified procedure. In New Slovenia we are also more concerned about the simplified issue of consent to the construction of a new nuclear power plant, or landfill of radioactive waste, or spent fuel. In order to obtain the approval of the building permit, the investor will be able to provide the necessary documentation to the administrative authority in part. This is an exception to the Administrative Procedure Act, which allows the administrative authority to treat only complete applications. Why do we act so easily in this difficult process involving a series of risks to our environment? The explanation of such extensive documentation is actually funny, as it is clear that projects such as the construction of the second block of Krško nuclear power plant are also necessary. Isn't this a logical question? This simplification will be in favour of the possible planning of the construction of the second block? Probability is considerable, as it has explained to the Minister of Environment and Space that it is a matter of building the new monitoring facilities necessary for greater security is little convincing. There's something else that's worrying. Today, the Krška nuclear power plant has an operating permit, which is not limited in time, despite the provisions of the law which set a ten-year limit. Of course, the reason for the later implementation of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety has been in operation since 1983. But wasn't the law adopted just because of the built nuclear power plant? If I'm not mistaken, we only have one thing in Slovenia. Why, then, does the law not contain a preliminary provision after which a nuclear power plant should be authorised to operate in accordance with the law within a specified period of time? And why do we not want to bring this into the marriage today? It is true that each 10 years, NEK has to submit reports on a regular basis and to the Nuclear Safety Authority. In 2012, the management decision allowed the nuclear safety report to be amended, making it possible to extend its operation beyond 2023, without the necessary environmental impact assessment. We Christian Democrats are therefore convinced that this is such an important provision of a law that we cannot and must not explain in any other way or in other words from the point of view of our common security, we must not allow ourselves to allow ourselves to be another Fukushima or Chernobyl. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the above, we will also support the amendment of the United Left, but we will not support the proposal for a new law, but we will not oppose it at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thanks again for saying that. The purpose of the law or amendment of the law is to ensure more effective regulation of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety in the peaceful use of radiation sources and nuclear technology. The aim of the law is also to ensure compliance with the rules of the European Union and the recommendations of the international community in the field of protection against ionising radiation. The new law is based on a number of principles: the principle of integrity, eligibility, ionisation of protection against ionising radiation, border doses, peaceful use, the principle of preparedness, the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of public opinion, the principle of ionising radiation in the environment, the exposure of ionising radiation to workers and the population, and the procedures and activities of public authorities, public service providers and holders of powers relating to protection against ionising radiation, radiation or nuclear safety. The law is also based on the principle of a step-by-step approach, which means that more attention is paid to more risky requirements when dealing with safety than less risky ones. In particular, if I list some news, the amendment of the law redefines certain concepts, such as radiation protection assessment, building design bases and extended project bases, safety culture, safety reserve, safety check, closed landfill, a more precise method of reporting to the professional councils, to the newly established rules on the protection and storage of documentary material of radiation operators and operators of nuclear and radiation facilities, a provision is added to allowing for the approval of foreign type approvals of devices containing closed sources of radiation. It also simplifies the entry into the radiation source register. A new set of obligations for operators of radiation activity, as well as the conditions for training and testing of radiation protection skills for operators of radiological interventions, are laid down. The law aligns the proposed amendment with the system legislation governing environmental protection and the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space. The proposed amendments to the law also take into account all knowledge and knowledge in the past years in the field of nuclear safety as a result of the nuclear accident in Fukushima. The SMC Group will support the draft law, which has been supplemented by amendments on the home committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u65	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The existing law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety was adopted in 2002 and has been amended three times so far. The latest amendments were adopted in 2011. This amendment proposes simplifying certain administrative procedures: simplifying the issue, reviewing and modifying the radiation protection assessment; more precisely defining the role of the authorised radiation protection expert in reviewing the most important documents; simplifying the issuance of radiation sources licences; eliminating the acquisition of registration certificates in the radiation source register as a specific administrative provision; and determining the entry into the register by means of a simplified procedure. The amendment also proposes several amendments to the individual provisions as a result of new knowledge of the Fukushima nuclear accident and after the stress tests carried out in Europe; adds new articles on the project bases of the nuclear facility, amends the provisions on the nuclear facilities management system and provisions on the monitoring of the appropriateness of the equipment supplied; provides for the possibility for the investor to provide the administrative authority responsible for nuclear safety partially with the documentation necessary for obtaining consent; the proposed amendments specify more clearly the obligations of the Agency for Radioactive Waste; and proposes the definition of a closed landfill that acquires this status by decision. There are also several amendments to the provisions on the security verification of persons operating in nuclear facilities, in particular with regard to the verification of foreigners. Several minor amendments are proposed, which constitute editorial corrections and remedy the shortcomings that have been demonstrated at the time of application of the previous law. A new directive is being drawn up at the level of the European Union. Once adopted, a new law will have to be drawn up and this is expected to happen in 2018. Simplification of administrative procedures alone means reducing administrative barriers for users of radiation units. The law or amendment of the law also takes into account all the recommendations and directives of the European Union, and we will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u67	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With a proposal for a new Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, which is not the latest announced by the proposer, as a new European directive will have to be transposed into our legal order by 2017 and 2018, which changes the basic standards of radiation protection. At that time, a more comprehensive reform of this area and a new law will be needed, which, according to the Director of the Nuclear Safety Authority, has already been prepared. This amendment is without prejudice to the existing basic principles of the current law and it is proposed to simplify certain administrative procedures concerning radiation operators. The radiation protection assessments, which, under the applicable regulation, constitute a condition for the initiation of the authorisation procedure for the performance of the radiation activity, are no longer confirmed by the competent administrative authority in the specific administrative procedure, but by the appropriateness of the assessment in the administrative procedure for obtaining authorisation for the performance of the radiation activity by the authority issuing the authorisation. The proposal also introduces changes in the review and modification of the radiation protection assessment, since, in view of the experience of the application of the law so far, there are more appropriate cases where the assessment needs to be reviewed, and there is also a procedure for the submission of the review report and possible modification of the assessment resulting from the review carried out. In 2011, the nuclear accident in Fukushima changed and destroyed hundreds of thousands of human lives and, at the same time, passed on some new insights on radiation and nuclear safety, which are also included in this amendment to the law, and some of the changes included in the Seval and Nuclear Safety chapter have also been made on the basis of stress tests carried out by all European nukes. Among other things, a new provision is proposed on the expanded project bases of a nuclear facility in terms of safety requirements for a nuclear facility. In the case of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the content of this provision is already being implemented in practice. With regard to the possible construction of a new nuclear facility, it is proposed that the investor should provide the administrative authority responsible for nuclear safety with, or in part, the documentation necessary to obtain the consent of the building permit, thereby reducing the process of obtaining the building permit. The fact is that the scope of the entire security documentation for the construction of the new nuclear facility is so great that the administrative authority takes several years to review it. A provision has also been added to monitor the appropriateness of the equipment purchased to prevent the installation of inadequate equipment in nuclear and radiation facilities and in devices that emit ionising radiation since it has already occurred abroad in the past. Some of the proposed changes relate to closed landfills such as Jazbec and Boršt, whose control needs to be institutionalised. Amendments are also proposed regarding the security verification of persons working in nuclear facilities, as practice has shown that individual data requested could not be obtained for foreign workers. It is also proposed to define more clearly the obligations of the Agency for Radioactive Waste within one of the mandatory public economic services which, in accordance with the current legislation, implements various public economic services, such as the management of radioactive waste, the disposal of radioactive waste, the long-term control and maintenance of mining and hydrometallural waste landfills. In the Desus Group, we support the bill in anticipation of a more comprehensive reform of this area and the adoption of a new law. At the same time, I predict that we will not support the proposed amendment of the United Left in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u69	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new 114.a. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Ducky, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Since I've got quite a bit of time, I'm gonna take it nice and slow. In view of what has been said here, obviously only as we are usually deployed to the extreme left, as someone would say, and the noble right, the United Left and New Slovenia are interested in this issue, and we are slightly questioning the issue and safety of the nuclear power plant and Block 2, which is somehow quiet, obviously, in the second part of the political spectrum already adopted. We have warned about this, we have been sending some questions in writing somehow, how is it that, without the United Left being capricious of nuclear energy as such, in the part of the United Left, I will be beaten because of this, but it is a matter that is too important without some public debate with a number of key stakeholders, from professions and civil society initiatives – which obviously impresses a slight lady, let's do fine – sweep under the rug. [[…]] Earlier, I had run out of time, and in part the Members and Members representing the views of the parliamentary groups behind me presented this. Mr Stritar has already said that in fact he is also working on a new marriage. It is said to behave rationally, economically and so on 2017 and 2018 we will have to enter the Slovenian legal order as if you wanted, also as a result of Fukushima to introduce some new commitments and make a new law. [[…]] In short, we are now making some extensive, slightly imprudent, nomotetic fourth amendment of the law. At the same time, a new law is being prepared [[…]] Why is this amendment, which we do not conceal here, in cooperation with the ecological work of civil society initiatives and the non-governmental sector important? As a result of Fukushima's adoption in September 2011, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nuclear Safety prepared a so-called programme for upgrading the safety of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, which is expected to be introduced in some way at the time of renovation next year 2016. Krško Nuclear Power Plant has somehow informed – or, as recorded, has already found for legitimate reasons that this will not happen by the end of 2018. However, at the beginning of 2014, NEK informed the Office that the so-called PNV would not be able to deliver by that date. In short, we are prolonging this into some future and, as they say, for financial reasons. In short, for financial reasons, the owner of the NEK – we know who co-owner of the NEK – has somehow cancelled improvements in the safety of the nuclear power plant. Of course, I don't want to be populism here and say that the work of NEK is dangerous, that it's not under control. You know, at that meeting I also said how embarrassing this law was to adopt and amend that, in fact, we or you of the coalition are more dangerous than all the sources of ionizing radiation in Slovenia. But okay, I'm gonna say a little rhetorical, but we have to be aware of this, it's not such an innocent thing. A colleague from Desus also mentioned two unscanned crane plazas, which this law partially tries to regulate and is not regulated, Jazbec and Boršč. In short, it's a whole series of things where we can't behave, as if it doesn't concern us or throw us under the rug, and finally say that there is no school for it. We can go and see what sector has in the so-called real sector – even though I don't agree to those names – even the best wages, if I put it that way. [[…]] I could go on with some other stories here, let's say that the interstate commission hasn't met for half a decade, since 2010 – this year, somewhere in June, July, haven't you? You know, these are serious things to deal with. I won't even agree that someone will say that the Croats are responsible for everything. We went to this Spain together at the time of one of my childhood. When I was with my grandmothers, for a nuclear power station Krška from the River was a vehicle by Westinghouse's equipment, and the road was closed – I was like a kid to fibbal, I remember well. In short, our amendment to the law, based on some warnings from certain civil society organisations, introduces what is essentially a practice. Which is in fact also in line, if you want, with European law and international conventions. Mr Brglez cited the Constitution, I could refer to Article 8 of the Constitution, which says that such matters are also part of the Slovenian acquis. We are too often forgetting this at the point that we have dealt with before, but I did not want to make any decisions by the European Court of Human Rights at that time. Let me go back. It is said, as a colleague from Nova Slovenije said, that there is a regular periodic security review. This is a little bit of a you know, regular occasional – we drink it occasionally or whatever, if I'm a little cynical – which are done for 10 years and then the administration confirms it. [[…]] Of course, there are a number of experts in this country who are in charge of these matters, and with the administration and with the so-called nuclear lobby, there is an absolute need to carry out a so-called appropriate environmental impact assessment, which I have been doing as a young'space', including with the so-called low and medium-level radioactive waste disposal, and I have actually been doing this in this novel. The point is that as a responsible legislative body we don't agree to any of those, my students would say a little after the "stretching" of a certain part of the energy lobby. In this novel we somehow introduce, we want to introduce some rules, how we actually view these things, how we give operating permits, of course, time-limited to 10 years, as is done in some societies and countries that we want to follow. Mr Stritar also gave us the right position on the home committee at that time, and I therefore hope that you will confirm this amendment of the law. After all, the department said it was in fact in agreement. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u71	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 20.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u72	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Agrarian Communities in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 36. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u73	Your Honor! Our proposed amendment in Article 36 provides that, where there is a violation of the law, each individual may propose the annulment of the decision at meetings of the agrarian community. Because in the case of a violation of the law, there is no need for the majority as stipulated by the law, that is one fifth or 20%. If there is a violation of the law, it is considered to be a violation of the law and here each individual can actually trigger it. I would suggest that, I would say, in a way, this uniform is supported where the infringement is bound to a certain quota. If this is a violation of the law, it is considered to be a violation of the law. I suggest we back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u74	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 36 of the Agrarian Communities Act regulates the right of a re-elected minority. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that one fifth of the members, depending on the shares in the co-ownership or joint property, are sufficiently protected by the ownership rights of the individual. We also agree with the fact that if each member of the agrarian community demanded the annulment of the decision of the agrarian community body, this would constitute an obstacle to the normal functioning of the agrarian community. We do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u76	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. She voted 21 against 55. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 43. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u77	Article 43 provides for such a preliminary right, which we consider to be very well regulated and thus to protect the property of agrarian communities. The hereditary order also protects certain property of agrarian communities, but in exceptional cases, for example, if I give a concrete example from a practice where a particular farm does not have its successors, it does not have its heirs, in fact it cannot take account of this succession and there is no possibility of transferring it to another farm or other agricultural holding engaged in an agricultural activity. That's what they say. This option is completely excluded here. For this reason, we propose that this possibility be presented here, that in such a case it may also be possible, in practice, to inherit and transfer the right to another agricultural holding, except in this case, which is prescribed in the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u78	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Nor can we support this amendment in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Where a member of the agrarian community by a gift contract transfers his or her share in joint ownership to a natural person performing a basic activity, article 42 of the law setting out the order of the beneficiaries for a preliminary right shall be circumvented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u80	Peace in the hall, please. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. There were 22 votes in favour and 55 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted for the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting "I'm breaking up." [[…]] Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word! We cannot support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The bill does not solve the main issue, that is, how the organisation of agricultural communities is regulated. This remains as a civil society of natural persons, making it difficult, further complicated, additionally bureaucratic with re-registration, with a new register, which, of course, represents additional work for both members of agricultural communities and additional work for the administrative units themselves. Nor is there a suitable solution to those procedures, since denationalisation procedures are not justified, they are not concluded where we are talking about transferring assets to foreign nationals themselves. This also raises the issue of the national interest itself and also the protection of our border area. The law itself is completely avoided by such tax and income matters as this law does not absolutely address. In short, it is a matter of solutions that will in practice show that they will come to life with a great deal of trouble, and sooner than before, the law will come back to the House of Representatives. Such a law is not appropriate in such a form to be adopted in such a proposed text as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u82	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Polish Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u83	Mr President, thank you for saying so! This law is trying to save the failed denationalisation of the early 1990s. In the process of denationalisation, property was also returned to people who have not lived in Slovenia for a long time and are not affected by the management of their common assets. More! Their heirs in their lives were probably never in that village or even in Slovenia. The fact is that the law on the re-establishment of agrarian communities and the return of their property and rights has been poorly written. The Communities were never private, but collective property and therefore, rather than being supported in the denationalisation process by the agrarian communities or preserved as a state and placed in the management of the newly established agrarian communities or transferred to them as indivisible collective property, we had to introduce a private property institution in the spirit of capitalism everywhere and for everyone here. In our view, it would be a much better arrangement for agrarian communities to be regulated as cooperatives and the current owners of ownership shares would be their members. Thus, the property of the agrarian community would actually be owned by the agrarian community, but not by shares among members of the agrarian community, but obviously because of the sanctity of private property and the denationalisation and privatisation spirit of the 1990s it was not possible to change the current situation. Agrarian communities are therefore organised today as some kind of shareholding companies that have ownership shares or shares and are far from being some kind of collective property management organisation, which is the essence of an agrarian community. Therefore, we can say peacefully that, in the pure sense of the word, agrarian communities have been gone since the early 1990s. They're just agrarian stock companies that no one dares to call themselves. While the proposer has repeatedly stressed the importance of the common assets of agrarian communities in the objectives of the law and the explanations of individual articles, through history, and through sustainable management of agricultural and forest land, the common realization of the interests of the rural population, the preservation of settlements and customs, and rural development, while stressing not only the economic but also the social and environmental function of ownership, the law itself practically does not address this, but only offers a framework for managing the assets, with emphasis on the possibilities and ways of selling it. That is why we will not support this law in the United Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u84	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. The Agrarian Community Act significantly simplifies the management of agrarian holdings, thus regulating the management and management of co-ownership or joint ownership of members, the organisation of an agrarian community as a property community, representation, procedural capacity, membership and responsibility for obligations, decision-making, special succession procedure and the termination of agrarian communities. It is very important to follow the following principles: the free establishment of internal relations between members of the agrarian community, the preservation of property as a whole, the preservation of tradition, the ability to be a party to administrative and judicial proceedings, this is a liability under civil law. For this reason, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u86	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. It's working now. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 21. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new 114.a. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have explained widely when it was the very subject of law, so I will not repeat myself, although only a third of Members and Members were present. In fact, in cooperation with the non-governmental sector, we want to amend and correct, according to my own words, some mistake when we forget a little about the existing NEK and the research reactor. In short, we somehow do not agree to the so-called regular periodic security checks that the management of NEK confirms if I so express myself. What's this all about? In particular, it is the operational authorisation of a nuclear power plant, where we want to see, in accordance with European law and international conventions, Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, an appropriate environmental impact assessment carried out in cooperation with the public. The bill's proposal also said that it agrees with this additional amendment or amendment; the current coalition is a coalition that is very transparent, and I hope that this amendment will be unanimously adopted. Thanks for that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u88	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. We will not support the SMC Group of the said amendment. We agree somehow with the proposaler's position, this is the government that there is no need for support for this amendment. In 2013, a temporary review of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was last carried out, an operating permit was also issued for a period of 10 years and, in this light, the amendment proposed by the United Left is made unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u90	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 51. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u91	I'm calling again, thank you for your word. I have explained for quite some time why the United Left would be abstention with regard to this amendment, on the one hand quite grumpy in the procedure given by the amendment, where the Applicant somehow realizes that it changes more than two-thirds of the articles of this law, which is against basics, could even tell the elementary principles of nomotechnics. In doing so, it is also argued that if you went into a serious change of law, you should amend 21 out of 28 acts of law. At the same time, it recognises that a new law is also being enacted, which will introduce a new post of Fukushima Directive into the Slovenian acquis 2017–2018. At the same time, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant says, or administration, that there is no money to improve security at the same time, given that our amendment was somehow transported, obviously except for the United Left and I have to say New Slovenia and perhaps someone else who voted, you have remained – I will just say – a slave of the energy and nuclear lobby, so of course the United Left will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u92	Is there any other explanation? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Funds following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Funds is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you. As I said at the hearing yesterday, in the United Left we do not fully agree with this law, which has now been tabled by the former ZaAB Group of Members. We fully disagree with his solutions, but the conclusion that the law is inappropriate for further consideration is against any democratic standards that should apply in this house. Indeed, this decision was adopted before any discussion was made on this law. This law was simply adopted by the coalition using its voting apparatus and by means of this manoeuvre, it pushed out a law tabled by a minor opposition party and simply washed its hands. As I said, in the United Left we may not agree with this law, but we are even more opposed to what the coalition has done with it. Against such undemocratic practices, which should not be in this house, we will be repeatedly alerted and will always vote against. All those you consider to be democrats should also vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u94	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Bojan Kranjc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law concerns only those public funds that have been set up to implement the founder's housing policy and to manage the founder's real estate, and this is actually the first obstacle to support the law. Two essential substantive reasons why we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration are, for the first time, indebtedness, since the debt of public funds is considered a public debt and, in addition, the payment of such debts is very uncertain only on the basis of rents. Another obstacle is the pre-emptive right that such a fund should have in the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, as this would constitute an obstacle to the functioning of the DUTB. As we say, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u96	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I didn't want to call because he doesn't usually kick himself in a dead horse. But that last thing I heard, that was amazing. I have to say that the marriage failed because in fact there was no other idea of a smart one. That's the reason. In fact, all the rest, as the debate itself found out, were prepared amendments. These amendments would correct this situation that you were talking about, as far as the land book is concerned in the transfer of dwellings or in the case of pre-emptive rights, as far as DUTB is concerned. As for the fact that only one part of the funds was problematic here — yes, dear God — we agreed in this country that we would have public funds. And then we have many kinds: but it is not my fault, if only the housing funds are those that have wealth, but all the other funds have none. It makes sense that those who have it, those who invest, of course, do it with credit. I've never seen anyone do it in cash. If you think we're gonna stop being in debt in this country, you're wrong. In the following year alone, the state will only be in charge of ten times as much as it would be necessary for that percentage of dwellings that could soon resolve rental housing issues. Let's see where you can do this, and I'm waiting for this fixed housing fund or apartment law, which is another story. Of course, I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u98	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will vote against this decision that the Slovenian State Holding Act is not suitable for further consideration and there are two reasons for this choice. The first reason is that we are clearly opposed to privatisation in the United Left, but we have prepared this amendment of the law in a way that is written on the skin of those who advocate deliberate privatisation. So something that practically the entire coalition promised before the elections, because this law implies nothing but that, before every major sale of assets, more than EUR 50 million, the National Assembly, as the supreme legislator, as the deciding authority, had to give consent to the privatisation process in order to ensure democratic legitimacy and transparency. That's all. This is what many countries, including many OECD countries, are doing, not least following good practices from Austria and France. In our Parliament, it was similar to the previous law we voted on, the Public Funds Act, which came out of the debate before it even started. by means of a coalition voting machine which, prior to any discussion, found that the law was inappropriate for further consideration. We have not heard the reasons for this because the law contains all the prescribed nomotechnical and legislative standards and there is no reason for this to happen. But apparently this becomes in the second year of the coalition's regime of operation of this coalition, to simply push opposition proposals forward with procedural manoeuvres. So if I draw the line, everyone who is in favour of deliberate privatisation, you will have to vote against this decision if you are not already in favour of deliberate privatisation and you will vote against this decision for the sake of democratic standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u100	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Surely, we cannot support the proposed changes in the Modern Centre's Group because these changes would seriously affect the basic concept of legal regulation and thus certainly make it difficult or worse for the effective management of state property. All the mechanisms are in place and it is necessary to allow these mechanisms to operate in all of these rules that we have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u102	What explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. We know who wrote the Bad Bank Act, we know which two governments took it and implemented it. I will say very simply, fifty million, with the exception of a few municipal municipalities, is more than the municipal budgets even of the municipal municipalities of Murska Sobota, Slovenj Gradec – someone else – do not have such a budget. Apparently it's a change for you, obviously there are some pre-election promises you've made, that you've already forgotten, because it's been over and over for a year, and I hope that whoever's watching this, people have a long-term memory, too, elections will come. [[…]] Of course, I will vote against it, because I cannot as a Member, I could refer to any article of the Constitution, be so irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u104	Explanation of the vote in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. In fact, Mr Franc Laj used the argument that the SMC would vote against supporting the conclusion that the law was inappropriate for further consideration because the adoption of this law would jeopardise the fundamental concept of State property management. All I have to do is add that we cannot know this because we have not even had a second of democratic debate on whether it really threatens the concept of governance of state property. If not for another reason, we will vote in the United Left against this decision because this decision prevents a democratic debate on the bill and prevents any assessment of what the content of this law is. Nevertheless, once again, I stress that it meets all legislative and nomotechnic standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u106	You will vote on your own behalf as the one who reasoned on the voice in your own name. Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 70, and the vote was 8. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on non-materialised securities under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the non-connected groups of Members of Parliament and of the United Left to Article 48. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups shall become irrelevant to the same Article under point 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky. Excuse me, Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u107	Okay, thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 48 refers to a provision in this law that provides that 280 000 owners of registration accounts that are now with the KDD, but more or less, are owners of these accounts that have received certain shares during the transition, when certificates have been distributed, it is said, for mostly older, impenetrable people, with some minimum shareholding in some companies that now have open registration accounts under the law, those shares that they received during the transition, and those accounts are kept free of charge because they are very small assets. The new law that we have before us is pushing these people into a situation where they have to decide whether to go to stock exchanges and, for the first time, pay between €25 and €35 for the transfer of these accounts and then continue to pay commissions and the costs of managing these accounts every year, of course in private stock exchanges. This is the first choice, and the second choice is that their shares that are held in these accounts, if they do not transfer this to the stock exchange houses, will automatically deposit them into so-called garbage accounts that after two years can be repossessed, these accounts or those shares that will be collected there. This provision in law is not in the spirit of this law. It is not a matter of co-ordination with the European Directive, which is an excuse for the whole amendment of the law, but it is simply a very clear interest of the stock exchange houses to earn something on these small shareholders, 280 000 who still have open registration accounts. The All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders has calculated that only through the transfer of accounts from registers now run free of charge to these retail houses, stock exchanges houses, two in Slovenia will manage the market, earn over EUR 5 million. In short, this is a profit provision that we cannot agree to in the United Left and therefore we are proposing an amendment to exclude this provision from the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u108	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 10 for them and 66 for them. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 48. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 71 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Nobody.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading and since the representative of the Government had already proposed in the introductory explanation of the proposal for a law that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the proposal for a law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. A personal explanation of vote is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. I'll be right back. As Luke explained correctly, some of you are young here, a young fellow from SDS squabbled: Let us all be poor. When he was in the diapers, we had a piduvian privatisation, we could discuss it for a long time and a short time, and at the same time, in the heath privatisation, people were not told what it was, where we were going. In the meantime, it's a little forgotten, now after the crisis, the stockbrokers want to cut a little cake off, as we say in Styria, the loony bins. Of course we're against it. Stockbrokers' houses, if they have their own knowledge, should create profits differently, but not actually suck people up, so that they can have electricity or more, and of course I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u110	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 6. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 25. 9. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 55. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 55.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is on Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the president of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Non-Conferenced Members not submitted for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth for President. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which was not tabled for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and on the reasons and responsibility for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which was not tabled for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the Supreme Court of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a motion for election, the appointment of Dr. Erik Kerševan as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for the appointment of mags. Tatjane Steinman at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposals, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mark Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members and Members! With regard to both proposals adopted by the Council of Justice after a particularly thorough consideration, which normally involve the appointment to the highest functions in our regular judicial system. The Council of Justice held an interview with all candidates, examined the documentary documentation and found, in fact, made a selection, selected the best candidate of all the candidates applied for. I must point out that Dr. Kersevana is embodying a particularly profound knowledge of administrative law, including constitutional law. He has also done outstanding work in the Supreme Court as a professional associate, exhibiting excellent working skills, including suitable personal qualities such as objectivity, legal feeling, self-confidence, and in professional circles he enjoys high reputation and respect. Therefore, the Council of Justice considered that, in addition to the extremely rich legal knowledge and excellent communication skills, the candidate also has the appearance of an upright and reliable holder of the judicial function. Therefore, the Council of Justice proposes to Prof. Erik Kerševan for election and then, of course, also the appointment to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Even with the candidate, the senior judge of mags. Tatjane Steinman found that after examining all the documents, including the interview with the candidate, that the candidate is an outstanding knowledge of administrative law, he has excellent results in the Administrative Court, and he also has an in-depth knowledge of constitutional law, including because of his past work in the highest places in the Professional Service of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, in view of all the criteria required and after, once again, the Council of Justice has sent proposals to the National Assembly and is proposing a candidate for election, in fact because she is already a senior judge, to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u112	The proposals were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We know of a well-known position which I have already raised several times on the Mandate-Election Commission, namely the issue of judiciary and staffing. It is a matter of being able to talk about human rights violations within the judiciary to those judges who are at lower rates and cannot compete with external judges in accordance with the criteria chosen. It is about defending a career system that advocates lower-level trial, and what the Council of Justice also advocates, the principle of graduality that a judge judges at lower-levels gain an assessment based on the quality of the trial and then the judges run an equal run for office. I would have no problem with, for example, running in the Constitutional Court, where other criteria are assessed. However, when judging and running for the Supreme Court, it is the top of those who judge, and it is therefore right to evaluate their work and then make progress, as the principle of progressiveity is stated. In the light of the foregoing, we cannot support the aforementioned candidates in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u114	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u115	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Council of Justice has submitted to us for appointment both to the Mandate-Electorial Commission and today to the vote of two candidates. There's a candidate mag on one side. Tatjana Steinman, who is a longtime judge, is a senior judge in the Administrative Court, who, as you know, is under the Judicial Service Act, which in Article 12, states that a judge needs at least 15 years of working experience in order to be able to come to the office of supreme judge. On the other hand, the candidate is an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law at the Department of Administrative Law, Dr. Erik Kerševan. If we compare both candidates, if I paraphrase part of the words used by colleague Dobovšek, there are two principles in the state and public administration: one is the principle of sequentiality and the other is the principle of equal opportunities. On the principle of progressiveity, colleague Dobovšek today explained the principle of equal opportunities and we can talk about violations of this principle in these cases. On the one hand, a judge with long experience, a senior judge who issued hundreds of judgements, on the other hand, a man who did not perform a single day's judicial function. He's a legal theorist in the field of legal law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we aim to ensure that people with integrity, knowledge, who will actually understand and take it as their mission of life and not as an instrument for achieving some personal goals that can also be right beyond. We would also like what was a wish, which is one of the arguments why we should name Dr Erik Kershevan, so this argument has said, if I am paraphrasing now, the President of the Council of Justice, that they want a conflict of spirits. We, too, want a conflict of spirits in a closed judicial system where authoritarian mentality rules, especially in the Supreme Court. We want responsible judges, we want good judicial practice, which is important in creating the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, we want courageous judges. Erik Kersevan has been in his career so far — if we forget that he was never a judge — we can talk about someone who is a good legal theorist in our legal circles today as an outstanding professor of law. But I can't say he's a broken man. We were talking about the situation that happened when he was a consultant to the president of the country, the only president of the country who did not receive a second term due to his unusual decisions. Remember the appointment of the last Chief of the Udba, including the paradoxical situation of today, so he was a consultant to the President of the State who appointed the last Chief of Totalitarian Police in his mandate. He was his advisor, and the Supreme Court, in another composition in 2003, says it was a criminal organisation. And it was at that time that his advisor was running for the Supreme Court without a single day's service as a judge. We don't want to throw some pollen at Dr. Kershevan right now, but if a man were killed, I could say he's distanced from such abnormal, undemocratic actions by the former president. It could show that his conflict of spirits is real, that it is not only an average or perhaps a slightly over-average professor of administrative law, but that he really wants some new legal ethics, some new legal philosophy, some ethics of civilized nations that are sometimes lacking, and in particular some strong vertical attitude. By appointing Dr. Erik Kerševana, on the one hand, we take the right of all those judges who have done well, especially as senior judges who have fallen out of this game, and on the other hand we name someone who has never shown this strong stance that has defended the law, regardless of their personal consequences. Because of the fact that Dr. Erik Kerševan can be proved to be a judge primarily in a higher court of law, we have no doubt that he would be appointed to a higher court and that he will have to prove himself in many ways in life. We want strong, determined lawyers who will actually start the conflict of legal spirits. In this closed circle – between the educational system, the legal education system, in particular the Ljubljana Faculty of Law and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, there is this closed circle. In this closed circle must come true lawyers, those who have experienced a conflict of spirits outside our country, the most elite [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u116	Please, time's up. Mr. Beznik, your time is up. [[adverts from benches]] Mr. Beznik, this is a reminder. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. I put to the vote first a motion for a decision by which Dr. Erik Kerševan is elected to the judicial office of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Dr Jasna Murgel
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We will vote in the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party for the candidate of Dr Erik Kerševan because the Judicial Service Act allows for the possibility of someone who does not have experience as a judge to be elected as a judge because of his exceptional abilities. The choice under the Judicial Service Act shall be made by the Council of Justice and shall propose the election of the candidate. Here the Council of Justice has explained its choice, enough that we can decide that the candidate is appropriate and that is why we will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u118	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 19 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am also putting to the vote a proposal for a decision to magnify myself. Tatjana Steinman is hereby appointed to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the Extraordinary Advancement of the Senior Judge of the Councillor at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana as the Supreme Judge The Council of Justice proposed to the National Assembly that, for the Senior Judge of the Council of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, Franc Seljak decide on the proposal for an extraordinary progress in the title of the Supreme Judge. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr Mark Novak, Vice-President of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u119	Nice greetings, honourable Members, honourable Members. In this case, too, the Council of Justice found, after a thorough discussion, that this was an exceptional candidate. Here we followed the assessment of the Supreme Court Staff Council, which proposed the extraordinary progress of the above-mentioned senior judge in the title of Chief Justice in the Supreme Court. If I may sum up our proposal, I would stress its exceptional expertise, its excellent results, its exceptional working ability, in particular its outstanding contribution to eliminating and preventing the occurrence of judicial backlogs. Here I would like to point out that I am precisely as regards the particular judge and his kind of innovation, which is called Triage, where some minor matters are being removed from the process, so that they can be dealt with more quickly and contribute genuinely to the reduction of judicial backlogs, to the resolution of certain things, I have been at a meeting today with representatives of the European Commission, where the European Commission represents this practice as a good practice to the other courts, in fact to the rest of the European Union as a good practice coming exactly, I could say, from the contribution of a specific higher judge. Therefore, the Council of Justice assesses that the Supreme Court's proposal on its over-average contribution to the quality of the trial is being followed and proposes to the Chief Justice of France Seljak for appointment as the Supreme Judge of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u120	Mr. Andrej Chuš, I am giving you a reminder for the sake of childishness. Following the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] He's got the word. [[…]] Procedural, sir? You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. When you share these warnings with the Members of my Group, you shall at one time base them with childishness, and secondly you shall not justify them. You gave Mr. Breznik nothing to substantiate why you gave him a warning. In fact, the rules of procedure on cases where a reminder is given simply say something and you can look at it. I note that Mr Breznik did not violate the Rules of Procedure for the reasons set out in Article 77, but you gave him a reminder. You also gave Mr. Chusch a reminder, I don't know, you said childishness. It's not defined here either. Thus, if I had already warned you in one of the previous warnings about these procedural matters, we would have been able to reproof Mr Horvat in the previous part of the session, or any warning from the government that is wasting time here and does not speak, and many of the Members of the ruling coalition who are also acting in a way that is balinian, shameless, insulting, and are talking about colleagues of the non-reality, the obvious non-reality, but do not do so. Be and have the criteria or ethical rules for the imposition of disciplinary measures at meetings of the National Assembly for all of the same, but not for one person to determine the penalty and smile cheerfully, but for all others you see absolutely nothing and do not notice any business infringements. Tell me how many disciplinary measures you have given to members of the coalition in this mandate. Can you tell them? If you follow the meetings of the National Assembly and if you judge by action, your fellow Members of the Coalition are real angels, that is to say, incredible angels. For all of us here you find an immediate reason, every time practically without explanation, and share the punishments as if we were here in a small school. Be realistic and be right, hold a meeting of the National Assembly equally for all Members who are here, but not for one way, for others in another way. This is, if you haven't noticed, probably some citizens have sent you something. It is evident that you are going to some political racism in the work of the National Assembly and in the conduct of meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u122	Comrade Tanko, this is the way it is. Ambassador Beznik spoke after his time was up. I warned him to stop. He didn't stop. I mean, I really don't understand, we all stick to the limitations that we have, now we even have to manage them manually because we have a built-in system, but it still hasn't stopped talking. And that doesn't count so you can do it that way. It's out of the question! That's another word. My friend Chuš keeps talking while others talk. Our guest is simply in the way. He talks to others, or he wants to involve them in talking to him, and he talks around and around. That's what he was doing, and that's bollocks. Otherwise, we just can't say it. I don't see any problem here. However, it is also quite a few Members from a position that has usually received reminders for some things. For some things. But that's over. We're not talking here. [[...]] The Chair shall hold the meeting and the Chair shall interpret this Rules of Procedure. Procedural about what? It's not procedural to talk to me. I'll allow you to have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have had cases where representatives of the Government spoke in the presentation of the Government's positions, in certain laws or at other points after three minutes or more than the prescribed time, but no representative of the Government received any warning, no warning. Look at you, because you have this option, whether what I said is true or not. You'll see he's holding. Mr Breznik was missed for 20 seconds in the presentation of the Group's position. You can check it out right away. You immediately intervened impatiently that something must be done and so on. I have no problem with this, Mr President, and not my colleagues if it is the same for everything; but let it be the same for all! Members who work under the same rules in the National Assembly sit here and there, but if someone commits a misdemeanor in a time-consuming situation for 10 seconds, it is a reminder. If someone else is missing, let's say a government representative or someone else, two minutes is missing, but it's nothing. Because what I'm saying, you can check, you have all the sessions recorded, all the times are registered, and look. We do not expect any president, not in this case, nor in any other cases, but that the rules for all are the same and that the measures for all are the same, because we are all the same here. We don't expect anything else. When a person may be talking during a meeting, either with a colleague or in any way – it also applies to your Members. Yours also speak when one of the government’s representatives or representatives of the other branches of government speaks this position. Look at this, because you see your Members well and share with them the same teachings and measures as our Members. In this case, we do not want anything else, Mr President, but the same treatment. Unfortunately, we haven't been getting any worse lately when some anxiety seems to be getting worse. However, the task of the Chair is only to guide the meeting in accordance with the rules and to share and lead a meeting for all equally; no privileges, no disrespects or anything else we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u124	This is the first session in which these matters need to be managed manually and should also be shut down manually. So far, we have always followed what the clock itself has turned off and simply the Member has always stopped talking. That's not what happened in this case. Finish the sentence and the case is closed. And he's going down. I am talking about this reference now that we are manually managing the matter and I am talking about my practice on this. But I don't want to argue, and that's why we're going to continue now. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u125	Honourable President, Honourable Vice-President of the Council of Justice, Dr. Marko Novak! Today we are talking and voting on the extraordinary progress of Judge Franco Seljak. As the President of the Council of Justice presented to us on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we are voting on a higher salary, on an additional honour and in some way on the ticket to the Supreme Court. In other words, when Mr Seljak is running for Chief Justice, we will no longer decide on this issue here in the National Assembly. The remarkable advances in our judiciary are very selective. Let me remind you that one Judge Barbara Kleinšek, after some very resounding judgment, which has become a disgrace to our judiciary, has also made remarkable progress. At the time of initial consideration of the proposal, the mandate-holder's decision was to need an analysis of the needs of the judiciary in order to decide that we need a more concrete explanation for concrete progress and that judicial statistics are also needed if the proposed candidate is so exceptional. We didn't get that. More! Also, Mr Horvat, President of the Commission on Elections, made it clear at the last meeting of the Commission on Elections, that we did not get these answers. What did we get? However, we have received the pleonazem of the words of the Council of Justice, among which we can read that the judge is extremely popular in the Court of Justice, that he was involved in the examinations of judges in the courts of first instance or in the official controls of the work of the judge – that I translate this into an understandable language in the people – when his friends in bankruptcy were media, he was the head of that department where it happened, and I do not recall that he specifically condemned the event. The result of those investigations was no one's fault. Among other things, in this explanation of exceptionality, we read: "The judge also always respects the legal deadline for the written making of judgments." Let me remind you, when we talked about Greece's economic and financial assistance, we have found, inter alia, that public servants in Greece have received an allowance for regular arrival at work. Here we read that the judge always respects the legal deadline for the written making of judgments. Yeah, what else can a judge do, especially if he's amazing, like that? For principle reasons, we have requested additional explanations in the SDS and that the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission is respected and that we have therefore proposed the postponement of the decision on this subject until the Court of Justice has given those documents and explanations requested by the Mandate-Election Commission. However, since colleague Dobovšek is no longer a member of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and of the SMC Group or of the SMC Group, I regret to note that the Coalition majority is becoming an appellator and certifyer of everything that the judiciary proposes. When we specifically decided on extraordinary progress, there was no President of the Council of Justice present at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission or at the continuation of the meeting, and no one else from the Council of Justice, although we know that the Council wants a green light for extraordinary progress. Members were thus unable to obtain further explanations on individual cases, including the case of a T2 bankruptcy. Let me just freshen you up. In the summer, the court or the Court Chamber rejected the bankruptcy of T2. When the Senate changed at the time of the holiday, T2 was sent to bankruptcy and the court, or Senate, largely explained or followed the argument of Nina Plad’s legal opinion. The president of that Senate was Mr. Seljak. Epilogue today: The Constitutional Court issued a provisional order and suspended enforcement or bankruptcy due to irreparable consequences to determine possible human rights violations. That's why I'm asking you if that's a good reason to move forward. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u126	It's time again. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] A colleague of mags. Ange Logar, I'm giving you a warning for blackmail. Procedurally, Mr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u127	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! Given that you have so excited about the reminders to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, I will not give you this satisfaction to continue this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u128	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I'll say it. I've had one conversation with you before. I'll tell you what. I accept that the National Assembly is being conducted with sharpness. Before you, we had presidents who were much sharper and had order in the hall. I myself have led a large committee in which Mr Potsch was on, and I do not know who else. Whenever I took his word, I ever gave him a warning, but it wasn't a problem. I also said it to Mr. Jozet Jerovšek, and I said, "Joze, stop it." Why did I do that? I did it because I was balanced. Mr President, you're working, I don't want to offend you, you're acting here like you're hearing in your right ear and you're looking at your left eye. You don't see anything going on on your left. It's not possible. Anarchy will continue. They laugh on the right, they laugh on the left. I am sure that the National Assembly must be led more acutely, but in the way that each Member is equal. In fact, every Member serving in this National Assembly has a right and you have a duty, so we have elected you to lead the National Assembly, so that the National Assembly will work effectively so that there will be no anarchy in the National Assembly; I stress that there will be no anarchy. Even on our side, not just on the left, I see sometimes talking, that, that, that, I want to listen to. So I don't have a problem with you sharing these reminders, but I think all the presidents of the National Assembly are in front of you, I would say so, I'm not sure, but at least since 2004, I assure you, they haven't shared this number of reminders. It's an inflation of reminders. Inflation of reminders will lead you to – what will it lead you to? In the anarchy of the National Assembly. It's hyperinflation already. The matter is not normal and I want to and I ask you once again publicly to lead the National Assembly more decisively, more acutely, but balancedly to the left and right. If you don't like me and if you don't like right-wing political options, it's your business, like mine, that I don't like your options, but I have to be corrected to everyone. Please, if you are right for everyone, I wish you a successful job!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u130	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. [[adverts from benches]] . Please, come on! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In view of the fact that I was not on the previous committee, I took a close look at what had been happening on the Commission and the explanations we had requested from the Council of Justice. In view of the legislator's intention to propose, in exceptional progress, to the man who has done something extraordinary, it is only explained in his explanation that his work is exceptional. Then I looked at the Internet and found that it was mentioned in the case mentioned by a fellow member of the SDS Group, namely T2, where it is a case where his Senate used the opinion of an external associate, called Nina Pladè. This is now constitutionally controversial. The second thing the Internet shows is involvement in a friendship in bankruptcy. When I went into trial, I realized that it was about hiring additional professional colleagues who went to the easier part of the judges in order to save more judges and devote themselves to what my colleague Lai said to the best work a judge could do. However, interestingly, statistics that were not included – they did less. If I move forward, the Constitutional Court has said that this work in Triage is not in accordance with the Constitution and somehow violates the principle of the selection of a natural judge. So the whole project is unstoppable. If I continue to do so, we have found that the Council for Judicial Ethics has said that the participation of judges in arbitration is contrary to the principle of the Code of Judicial Ethics. This is a serious violation, which creates suspicion of the independence of the judiciary. So it's just another matter. Then what I have pointed out several times is the training of judges in the private sector. Once they were doing something, the legislator's intention was to do it again for judges or for state institutions, not for the private sector. [[…]] To this day, the Council of Justice does not want to take an appropriate position. If we look at the statistics that were attached, only one of the statistics for lower-value disputes. Indeed, some progress has been made here, but this is the part that has been carried out by more or less professional colleagues. However, serious disputes and serious judicial work show that work is less and that fewer cases have been resolved. It is said that some judges do not even reach the standard of judicial work. In view of all the above, I believe and call on the coalition Members to vote in accordance with what the Constitution requires them to do with their conscience and not to support such progress, because this will have a negative impact on the reputation of judicial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u132	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision by which Franc Seljak is making outstanding progress in the title of supreme judge. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Dr Jasna Murgel
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u133	We will vote in favour of the proposal proposed by the Council of Justice in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, because we have received an additional explanation of the proposal for election on the Mandate-Election Commission and we believe that this explanation was appropriate. That is why we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you very much, President. The explanation of the Council of Justice was not appropriate. It was incomplete, and when further reservations were made about the specific appointment, the representatives of the Council of Justice were not on the Commission’s terms of reference. However, she was bitten by members of the coalition to confirm this appointment as soon as possible. Things highlighted by colleague Dobovšek, including the trial procedure and the establishment of an institution of a judge who is not a natural judge. Take a look at some of the letters from the lawyers, where they tell us that all the proceedings that follow this process and will appeal to the Constitutional Court will fall in the Constitutional Court. The author of such procedures today, apparently, wants to reward the ruling coalition with extraordinary progress. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not opposed to extraordinary advancements for extraordinary candidates. However, in the case of a candidate who did not have an adequate explanation by the Council of Justice, which did not even satisfy the criteria required by the majority of the Coalition on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and in many open questions that did not receive clarification, the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot give the marginality of an extraordinary promotion, which means, sooner or later, the seat of the Supreme Court. For once again, at the head of the Supreme Court, we have a President who has violated or violated human rights, a Vice-President who has violated human rights, and in the case of a T2 case involving a finding of human rights violations, we will also have an extraordinary advanceer who has violated human rights. I wonder how, in the country, the only authority that can decide on the criteria for progress and entry into the judicial sphere, while the coalition also notes that there is something very wrong with the judiciary, not that it is a storm, but that it is cloudy, at the same time the coalition is giving a thin menu for extraordinary progress. Therefore, we will not support this progress in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u136	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of Vice-Governor of Banka Slovenije. By letter dated 10 September 2015, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly that he be appointed Vice Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Irena Waterman Jean. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Mrs Natashi Kovac for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u137	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good evening! After informing the President of the National Assembly to the President of the Republic that, at the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, the candidate for Vice-Governor had not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, the President of the Republic informed the National Assembly that a new proposal for candidacy would be drawn up in such a way and within a time limit which would allow the National Assembly to vote on this at the latest at the first next meeting of the National Assembly. Thus, according to this forecast, a new proposal for a candidate for this city has been prepared before you. After careful consideration of all the opinions and views expressed at the hearing of the previous candidacy and after consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, for which I thank again, a convincing majority of the proposed candidate could also be understood. On the basis of all this, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly that he be appointed Vice Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Irena Vodopivec Jean, university-graduate economist, master of science, currently employed at the Association of Banks of Slovenia as deputy director. Until 2002, she was employed at Banka Slovenije, first at the Analytical Research Centre, and later as a concubine in the Banking Supervisory Department. In 2002, she worked at the Ministry of Finance as Deputy Head of the State Aid Monitoring Branch, where she also exercised control over the granting of State aid to Slovenia's membership in the European Union. It also participated in the drafting of state aid legislation and in the implementation of the notification procedure with the European Commission. In 2006, she became Head of the Financial System Sector in charge of drafting national banking legislation and other areas. It has also been involved in supporting the participation of the European Commission working group and the Council of the European Union. In 2007, she took over the responsibilities of the Director-General of the Financial System, also responsible for relations with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. Mag. Irena Vodopivec Jean has been trained for her work at numerous prominent banking institutions abroad, from the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland and Austria, and also at the International Monetary Fund in the United States. As an expert of the European Union on State aid, she participated in projects in Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia. She was also a member of a number of committees and commissions of the European Commission. Since 2011, she has been a member of the Executive Board of one strategic group in the European Banking Federation. It is clear from the presentations made and from the additional explanations provided by the candidate from the discussion with her in the Office of the President of the Republic that the candidate, with her professional experience, has a high level of professional competence both at home and in the international financial institutions and will perform this function professionally and conscientiously in the event of appointment. The President of the Republic to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to appoint mag as Vice Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Irena Waterman Jean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u138	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, including representatives of the Cabinet of the President of the Republic! The banking sector is an increasingly sensitive area, in particular due to past bank hole recovery procedures, in which so far a huge amount of tax money has been invested. Transparent and effective control over the entire banking sector is the key factor that we have before us when we decide who and how to lead the banking sector in the future. Perhaps it was these concerns that prompted the unsuccessful appointment of the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Even today's secret ballot has nothing less to do with the appointment of a suitable candidate who will be able to justify such a responsible function. In the Desus Group we had the opportunity to listen to both presentations, both Mrs Irene Vodopivovicec Jean and Mr Primož Dolenc. We both got a little better acquainted, asked them a lot of questions and received interesting answers and perspectives on how to solve the banking problem. We assessed both presentations as successful. Both candidates had no experts in banking and some personal objections to one or other candidate in the Desus Group. I must admit that we were initially more inclined to this candidate, but that we will leave the final decision on the suitable candidate for Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to the President of the Republic. We respect and trust the election of the President of the State in the Desus Group and at the same time join the view that the candidate Mrs Vodopivec Jean fulfils the high professional criteria and has the experience necessary to perform this important function. We believe that the proposed candidate will successfully overcome all future obstacles and, with her competence, can justify the confidence given. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support Mrs Irena Vodopivec Jean for the most part.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u140	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u141	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mrs Kovac, colleague and colleague! Members and Members will today decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to appoint the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Irena Waterman Jean. In addition to Mrs Vodopivec Jean, Dr Primož Dolenc also competed for his candidacy. In the Group of Social Democrats, we had an interview with both candidates, both of whom are banking experts. They presented a vision of the state of Slovenian banking today and in the future, and their role or vision in the functioning of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, if elected vice-governor or vice-governance. According to our common assessment, both candidates presented credible and quality visions for the performance of their functions. If I focus on the proposed candidate mags. Irena Vodopivoc Jean, then I think it is right to point out that this is a qualified financial expert who has performed and still performs responsible functions in her career, in one way or another, related to the banking sector. Today he serves as deputy director of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and runs several working bodies. The candidate thus, on the basis of her candidacy in the Group of Social Democrats, stressed that the origin of the bank hole is caused by a variety of factors and circumstances, in particular those which, as a country, we were unable to influence substantially or to an appropriate extent. However, in dealing with the Bank of Slovenia bank hole, as well as individual banks, they did not take and take the necessary and necessary measures in time. It also assessed that the participation of Banka Slovenije on the one hand and of the Ministry and the National Assembly on the other was not good and sufficient in the past. It is therefore imperative to improve this cooperation in the future if we want the whole banking system to function effectively and not least on the issue of greater economic accreditation, since, in particular, we can assess by domestic banks that this is not sufficient. The candidate stressed that she is convinced that Banka Slovenije has sufficient professional staff and that a clear distribution of competences and responsibilities for individual decisions is necessary, even the most crucial and most difficult. The candidate is thus in favour of the transparent functioning of the Bank of Slovenia and it is right that her work be supervised by both the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors, and it would be good to supplement the law in a way that leaves no doubt about the competence of the supervisory institutions, which we have also discussed on the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Even if irregularities have been committed in the past in the recovery of the bank hole, the applicant believes that it is crucial that all doubts and accusations are properly verified and, where appropriate, duly sanctioned and called to account in the event of infringements found. It is crucial that the applicant assesses that all actors in the banking system have their role to play in a responsible, transparent and, in particular, in the interests of taxpayers and taxpayers, so we will support the proposal of the President of the Republic in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u142	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. This is the last time I say good-bye to you again! With this candidacy, I would like to start with a general remark. It is symptomatic that we choose candidates for the vice-governor and governor of the central bank on the basis of biographies, not on the basis of the programme. But the central bank is in charge of politics, running monetary policy, and the four vice-governors are with the governor of the central bank, but four people or five people together with the governor are saying five votes to decide on this policy. Their function is political and their function is not entirely professional in order to be able to say, but these are people who must have a particular professional opinion on what monetary policy should be. That's not true! This policy is ideologically distorted, this policy is assumed by which side of society they are located and is assumed by what other interests and political preferences are. That is why it seems to me or to us in the United Left, for the first time, totally inappropriate for the vice-governor candidates not to present their programmes, but to present only their biography. On the basis of biographies, however, we have two criteria on which we have assessed. The first criterion is that on the basis of a biography, it could be concluded that the candidate is not a representative of neoliberal orthodox that currently predominates in the central bank. The second criterion is that it is not part of a narrow circle of people in the relationship between the central bank and the Ministry of Finance, which are responsible for the serious errors of the Bank of Slovenia over the past ten years and or to prevent investigations of these errors, which could lead to the following false political moves by the central bank. For example, why did the Bank of Slovenia in 2007 and 2008 not point to dangerous credit overheating, although many academic economists have warned of this? Why didn't she take action on this? In particular, by regulating the capital adequacy of banks, it is said to be systemic, and is consequently responsible for overheating economies during these years and for credit crunches later. For example, secondly, why did Banka Slovenije accelerate the credit crunch by tightening its capital adequacy requirements in 2010? This is once again the political fault of this central bank, which has never been judged. Thirdly, why did it allow an unrealistic valuation of the bank's capital deficit for more than a billion and a half in 2013? We have talked about this several times and an ongoing investigation is under way in the National Assembly. Different valuations differed in this respect and they chose more expensive and this is the third major political failure of the central bank in these years. In short, we do not have a programme to assess whether the vice-governance candidate will repeat such errors, and on the basis of her biography, we can conclude that, for the first time, she is close to the modern ideological orthodox that prevails in this bank. Secondly, that he is close to the circle of people who have so far been involved in the ministry and the central bank in these processes, so, of course, we cannot support her as a candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u144	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I'll be off the bench so there won't be a long way back with a reminder. With regard to the candidate of the President of the Republic for Vice-Governor, I can say that we will support the candidate, we have had a discussion with her in the parliamentary group, as well as with the other candidate. I must say that somehow the candidate is closer to the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party as regards the development of the banking system and the role of the Bank of Slovenia. In fact, we advocate better control over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, we advocate a more transparent operation and we also advocate that Banka Slovenije should not be so, in some way, closed itself, to be a system in which it must not even look. When a system such as banks works normally, we don't even care, we can honestly say it, but in cases where there are major problems in the functioning of the banking system, we are very interested in knowing what is happening and why the problems in the banking system have occurred. We are talking about interventions with state funds, we are talking about recapitalisations, we are talking about abnormal debt, we are talking about measures that have in some way decommissioned the banking system. All of this costs; either as a credit or as an increase in the tax or any other measure. In short, the banking system is not something that is closed, and I hope that those who have been proposed so far, and also those who will be further proposed to perform functions in the banking system, will also listen to the National Assembly and also to those who want to have an insight into the functioning, especially at these bad times, when we decide. The candidates who came to the National Assembly and introduced themselves were usually such as to say that they stood up for these things. The former or current governor, Dr. Jazbec, also stood up for this when he came to the presentation in the parliamentary group. However, when he became governor, he was suddenly in the position that some could not be reached by the bank against certain measures, they referred to the European Central Bank and to some opinions, which, by the way, in the case of criminal offences – and what had happened with the recapitalisation and the need for recapitalisation, were also criminal acts that had not been sanctioned. I hope that the candidate we will give her today will not change her position and attitude towards the functioning of the banking system, to the controls needed in the banking system and to many other matters. In short, despite the fact that the vote is secret, it is the unanimous decision of the Group of Members to support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u146	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal for the appointment of Vice-Governor of Banka Slovenije. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the National Assembly on the appointment of a Vice-Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with paragraph 1, 92. the articles of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be chaired by a secret vote of the Commission, which shall be composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Group of the Social Democrats, Miha Kordiš, Group of the United Left and Mr. Jožef Horvat, Group of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u147	It is a little strange that there are no ladies and comrades in this Parliament in the committee. I'm not going to argue. I'm just going to make a statement. Thanks for that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u148	Is there any alternative to this? Does anyone have any other suggestions? [[No, no, ……]] If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia will be appointed, if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 22.40 p.m. and will last until 22.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 23.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u149	Dear Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the consideration of the closed 25th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Irene Vodopivoc Jean for Vice Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 23 September 2015. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 votes delivered. Four votes were invalid, 74 votes were valid, 69 votes in favour, 5 votes against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. Irena Vodopivec Jean by a majority of the votes of all Members appointed Vice-Governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Vice-Governor and member of the Council of Banka Slovenije mag. Irni Waterbender Jean congratulations and I wish her a successful job. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 11th meeting of the assembly to be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
