ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Iva Dimic from 12 noon onwards, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mr Jan Škoberne, Dr. Franz Duck and Miha Kordish. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Republic of Slovenia's Measures for the Stability of Banks, under the ordinary procedure. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Obviously, we are witnessing the systematic blocking and obstruction of the work of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in the National Assembly. Let me just remind you that at the beginning of our term of office or at the beginning of your term of office, you have been engaged for more than four months in the mandate of our President, Mr Janez Janša, that you have obstructed the establishment of a Security Intelligence Commission and that this race against our President and, of course, also against us, until the Constitutional Court has decided that what you have done in the National Assembly is unconstitutional. It is said that you tried to withdraw first, and then you found out that our President's term of office had ended. These things continue. Despite warnings from the legal profession in the first part of your work on the mandate of our President, you have carried out this procedure to the end. Even now that there has been an excessive interference with the integrity and work of Mr Andre Širtzlj's Member, when you wanted to confiscate his complete computers – we prevented this from the party – and you were also informed here that this is an excessive intervention, you have nevertheless decided to seize all the documentation, all the files during that period of investigation, while the vast majority of these files are related to third parties who are not related to the subject of the investigation. In this case, too, in our opinion, you have overstepped your powers by allowing the seizure of documentation, which is in no way the subject of an investigation, and you are also obviously members of the National Assembly and you, President, are part of this permanent pursuit against members of our parliamentary group and against our party. This is repulsive, this is unacceptable and, therefore, we are also predicting that our parliamentary group will not participate in this agenda item and I am predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u3	As I have explained many times, at least as far as this last event is concerned, everything has been done in accordance with the laws that I have to respect. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u4	Good morning, distinguished Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We have a third reading of the proposal for the amendment of the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The solutions have already been presented in detail in the law's consideration so far, so I would concentrate today's presentation only on Article 8 of the bill, which is an article of the proposal to which the amendments were tabled. The main objective of that Article is to prevent debtors whose liabilities have been transferred as ventured bank items to the DUTB from being able to achieve, by themselves or through persons associated with them, their debt is extinguished without being fully repaid. As the debate so far has shown that the prohibition should be clear and formulated in such a way that the DUTB, by checking the binding circumstances justifying the application of the Article, would not have a problem, the Government supports the amendment of coalition parties. The amendment, as proposed as a criterion for the enforcement of the prohibition, provides for the holding of a share or membership in the management body. Both criteria are objectively and easily verifiable. In the course of the debate, the question of what would happen if, despite the content of Article 8 of the amendment, DutB sold the claim to a person who was not supposed to. We stress that in this case the deal will be concluded in contravention of the law. This means that such a business will be null and void in contravention of enforced regulations. However, no business for the parties creates legal consequences. I would also like to state the Government's position that we do not oppose the amendment tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. In view of these reasons and the views of the Government and of the debate already held in the first and second reading of the law, I propose that the National Assembly deal with amendments to Article 8, support and vote on the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u6	Hello! Nice hello to you all! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, in our second reading of the new law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, we have drawn attention to the fact that the content and scope of the amendment itself dictate the adoption of the new law and not merely the amendment, and we are also repeating this position today. Nevertheless, and despite some of the other concerns that we have already expressed in our previous position, we have supported the amendment of this law and will do so in this, that is, third reading. Let us explain this point of view. The Bank of Slovenia, which has an overview of all banking in our country, strongly points out that the most pressing problem in our country is the over-indebtedness of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the basic reason that these companies cannot access new bank credits, so they cannot invest in the new programmes they have and are perspectives from the point of view of business banks. These programs may cost some tens, perhaps a few hundred or several thousand new jobs. They cannot settle outstanding loans, past-period credit liabilities and their claims have already been transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company. They also have liquidity problems and literally lives. We are also very much reminded of the urgency of the deleveraging of micro and small enterprises in Nova Slovenije, which is why we called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, held in May this year and entrusted the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, among others, to provide information within 3 months on the implementation of measures for the systematic extension of micro and small enterprises. Let me remind you that this meeting of these two committees, namely the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance, was very well welcomed by the economy as well as by banking. The state of play, as well as the decision taken by the two working bodies of the National Assembly, requires the adoption of new legal bases that will allow the extension of these companies. We agree with a number of concerns, whether the way used by the Government for the deleveraging of medium- and small-sized enterprises and the possibility of restructuring them is correct. We believe that it might be better to adopt a separate law that would cover, in addition to those bad loans that have already been transferred to the DUTB, all the remaining bad loans that are still in banks and banks could clear the balance sheets of bad loans. However, we are convinced that any solution to the deleveraging of small and medium-sized enterprises is better than maintaining the status quo. It is expected that the restructuring of credit will in most cases take place through conversion into equity of these companies, which means that the share of state capital investments in the economy will continue to increase. In view of the current economy or better said inefficiencies in the management of state capital investments, as we have been trained so far and will probably not improve with any key, we believe in Nova Slovenija that the increase in the country's share of capital investments should be only in the short term and that the dynamics of privatisation procedures need to be accelerated. We are also reminded of this on a permanent basis by the European Commission. Privatisation of a company means the search for responsible owners who will achieve better results, corporate governance and, consequently, a greater spill into the state budget that we need in view of the necessity of fiscal consolidation. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we will also support the draft amendments and the amendment of the law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, as has already been said, in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We are ahead of the third consideration of the law of the so-called Bad Bank Act. Of course, we will support the marriage in this regard. We have also proposed some amendments ourselves, some amendments have been taken into account. The solution goes in a new direction, certainly not perfect, depending on how we will monitor the implementation of the law further, but we must somehow follow these trends that are also taking place in the world while at the same time pointing out mistakes. I would like to point out in advance that we have only just begun to solve the problem of one so-called bad bank, already there are rumors about the establishment of another bad bank. I believe that if we already have such a problem with this bank, we must be very careful what we will do in the future. It is the fact that old legislation has introduced some innovations, particularly this single management system, which has been most frequently mentioned as controversial, then risk management, and what we say is that it is outside the law, that the law itself allows exceptions, such as tax havens in financial procedures, outside the law is the law that we mentioned yesterday, the law on bankruptcy and forced settlement. There is no way to deal with this and it is out of this legislation. Novela is trying to set up some things, but I still believe that following that model of single management we have introduced from the United States and implemented it into the German system, the European continental system does not work with us because we are more accustomed to a two-tier system. If we have already introduced the ideas of a single system, then I advocate that non-executive directors also perform their functions professionally, because it means that they should be employed for the whole working time and perform this function professionally, but not in addition to some of their work, which then causes conflicts of interest and all other problems. So we haven't solved this system to the end. The key to all of this is risk management, and that is why we have turned around so much in Article 8. Article 8 itself, as proposed, we tried to complement it somehow at that night meeting of the committee. We know there were a whole bunch of amendments and amendments to the amendments on the board, so we even took some time to clear things up. The conclusion of that session was that the coalition would draw up a record that would remedy the shortcomings. Of course, this is not exactly the order of the situation, so we are witnessing first the amendment of the coalition, which also implemented some members of the parliamentary group, which is unfortunately not among us today, and we have also proposed another amendment, which, as I hear from the Secretary of State, is also supported by the Government. What's this all about? It is a matter of limiting the risks so that those who have caused a bank hole can buy cheap claims and thus gain very large profits. In view of our solution, to our amendment – what did we propose? We drew attention to one point, namely, that those who participated in asset valuations — which we have often found to have been controversial — had internal information. These persons may appear as buyers or related buyers and the proposed amendments are intended to limit these situations. Article 8 as it is now, with all the proposed amendments to both the coalition and our amendments, goes in the right direction. Of course, it is not ideal and it will depend on how we monitor the implementation of this Article, how we will implement this Article and how we will interpret legislation. I'm afraid there's gonna be some paid opinions, some paid legal explanations going in the other direction. So I think we need to work together to stop this. Given that the Government has proposed that these amendments be accepted, the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members will also support these amendments, these solutions. However, we will closely monitor the implementation of this legislation and issue as before if the so-called bad bank is to ensure that those who have created the bank's hole will buy these claims cheaply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and representatives of the Ministry! As already mentioned in the previous position of the SMC Group and the discussions of the novel in our opinion, it is essential to reform the law. Let me re-emphasize the key improvements. Additional tools are being introduced for financial and business restructuring of companies with which a bad bank will be able to better meet its expectations when taking the initiative. The divestment of 10 % of the assets since the annual inflow reaches 10 % of the assets obtained, thus also producing inflows from effective asset management. The extension of the Bank's operation to 2022 with a view to preventing under pressure sales, which could lead to low prices in cashing DUTB's assets on the market. Monitoring is improving and the competence of executive and non-executive directors and thus their responsibilities, and so on, is being defined. Now a few more words about the provisions of the novel, which, in our opinion, is changing to a better version of the previous plenary session of the National Assembly. These are additions to Article 8. Let me remind you, this regulation regulates the prevention of abuse, so that those who are guilty of making bad claims will not be able to participate in the purchase of those same claims with the discount. We have proposed in the SMC that this article be further sharpened. With reference to the provisions of the takeover legislation, in our view, we have significantly improved the original proposal. Then we also invited other colleagues to tell us how this could be further improved and, at least as far as this article is concerned, it was quite a lively debate. In the SMC, of course, we support all the constructive proposals that will regulate this area better than was set out in the proposal. The coalition amendment thus contains part of our initiative and part of the United Left initiative on the sharper limitation of ownership between the buyer of the claim and the one where this claim was initially recorded, from 10% to 5%. The SD amendment initiative, which deals more rigorously with the time frame of those who are not allowed to bid for the purchase of the claim, would have been three years before the transfer of the claim and not only when the claim was made. For the sake of clarification, for procedural reasons, we have incorporated the entire SDS amendment into the coalition amendment. The reason is that if we didn't do it in order, the SDS amendment would become irrelevant. That is precisely why we have included it in such a way that it will also apply. In addition to the amendment, it is said that the coalition should also mention that we will support the initiative of a group of unrelated Members, as previously announced by a colleague of Dr Dobovšek, and in which it now proposes that the right to purchase bad claims be denied to a relatively wide range of those who could have data from the valuation of the assets of banks or so-called stress tests. This aspect has not been addressed in the proposal and is considered an important contribution to the quality of the legal solution. So in the SMC, we will support the coalition amendment, which is based on proposals sent by the United Left and the SDS, and the amendment of the group of unrelated Members. In the SMC, we will then, as already within the competent committee and then at the previous plenary session of the National Assembly, support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Your Honor! We have before us a bill that we will unanimously confirm in the Desus Group. The adoption of the law will allow for an effective restructuring of companies whose partner or creditor has become the Bank's Claims Management Company or, in short, the DUTB in order to implement measures to strengthen the stability of banks. The latter will be able to participate in the restructuring of an economic company with any legal business that will enable its debtor to become able to pay in the short or long term. The proposed law prolongs the period of existence of the DUTB until 31 December 2022 because it does not make sense for the funds to be sold under pressure and for any price to be found by a suitable buyer and, in particular, to the extent possible, to recover the appropriations. The DUTB must operate transparently, so it will have to ensure that the decision-making procedures for the conclusion of individual legal transactions can be reconstructed. The Ministry of Finance will have to provide any documentation and any information it needs to carry out its control. The Ministry may provide guidance, but these must be general and abstract and must not provide guidance on how to proceed on a case-by-case basis. The applicable law requires DUTB to determine the responsibility for the creation of bad loans and investments. The new proposal amends the deadline for determining liability to facilitate the identification of irregularities, since the DUTB does not have the investigative powers or knowledge necessary to detect infringements. What he can do is that the suspicion of an offence is referred to the competent authorities. In the public, the alleged underestimated transfer of claims constantly raises fears that they would not be bought out in the name of the bank hole. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we have always insisted that it is necessary to define precisely who the DURB can transfer these claims to. We believe that the proposal for a law will eliminate any distortions by associates, debtors, members of management, debtors and even those who have assessed the value of these claims. In conclusion: only a proactive approach to corporate restructuring will allow banks to operate better in the long run, as they need healthy companies. The bill is therefore a step in the right direction in the Desus Group and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats for her, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! However, when we consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, it is important to note that, at the time of the creation of the basic law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, on the so-called Bad Bank Act, we have opposed this solution because it is the most expensive possible solution to the rehabilitation of banks. This is a solution that brings great moral gambling, namely, the rescue of private owners at the expense of taxpayers is always an extremely large moral issue and a great gamble. Also, the problem of assessing claims, at what value the bad claims from banks will be transferred to a bad bank, we have warned, could be one of the very big problems. Here, too, it has been shown that a very large discount was actually used in the transfer of claims, about 70% actually amounted to this discount, and as a result the most expensive solution is in the form of an increasing or excessive investment in the capital adequacy of banks. In fact, the 5 billion bad claims transferred from banks to bad banks are only worth €1.5 billion in a bad bank. This difference remained with taxpayers, but of course it was property owned by private owners. In this regard, however, it is important to note that the basic bad legislative framework adopted at the time of the Janša government has led to the fact that, however, it has been all the time for a very opaque and, as it turns out, also the uneconomic behaviour of the bad bank and that, last but not least, the lack of control over the bad bank and the personal responsibility of the leading ones, to which the Court of Auditors has, lastly, pointed out in its report. Indeed, the Court of Auditors also pointed out, in its review of the operation of the bad bank, that there were shortcomings and inconsistencies in the transfer of poor claims to the bad bank and, in particular, the inadmissibility of advisory contracts concluded by the management of the bad bank, despite the fact that the revenues of both executive and non-executive directors in the bad bank were enormously high. It is precisely on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report that the amendment under consideration today sets out more clearly the procedure for appointing executive and non-executive directors and also the duration of their mandates. Finally, the time pressure on the sale of companies at a bad bank is also eased, and it is also given the possibility for a bad bank to carry out a restructuring before the sale of the company in order to obtain, however, a large part of the assets left on the taxpayers' backs. In fact, the 70 % discount on the book value of the claims is the difference that would be expected within the operation of a bad bank to be reimbursed by restructuring and, consequently, later by the sale of these companies. I think we should also make it very clear that measuring the efficiency of a bad bank can only measure whether the sale of claims will be at least at the level of the book value of the bad claims that have come from banks to a bad bank or even higher. The fact that it is considered to be a good operation of a bad bank if it sells the claim obtained at a discount of 70 % for 35% of that value cannot, of course, be considered to be a successful business but, in fact, to make good use of this mechanism in order to pay additional awards for the sale of the claim. In the process of adopting the amendment, we have also been very careful all the time to prevent any abuse of the procedure in the sale of bad claims by those who have also caused bad claims. In doing so, we must say that all the bad claims transferred from the bank to the bad bank were not bad and could be resolved within commercial banks by means of procedures available to the bank, without difficulty, by extending the maturity of the repayment of credits, and many companies have also decided to do so. But regardless, because of the imprudentness that I have already mentioned in the introduction, such companies have also landed at a bad bank. That is why I would like to make a difference between those companies that were doing well and were also able to resolve their obligations to banks and those that actually got in a bad position because of the poor management of companies or because the owners might have wanted to exhaust this property and take this capital into tax havens. It is precisely in these two categories, so as not to abuse those managers who have created bad claims and those owners who may have deliberately exhausted those companies in order to prevent them from buying this property back cheaply, that, in both the second and third readings, in which we have come up with a solution today, however, which is enshrined in the amendments of both the coalition and the opposition, that we actually prevent such machinations to the greatest extent. However, I would be very pleased if we could also rule that out altogether. Therefore, the amendment that has been tabled seeks to prevent former managers from arriving cheaply at companies where they have created bad claims while at the same time preventing the amendment of the opposition from taking over businesses by those companies or individuals who participated in the review of the quality of bank assets in 2013, or by those who have assessed bad claims. Within the restructuring process itself and then the sale of businesses to which the bad bank is intended, we also demand that the bad bank, in addition to the financial criteria, take account of others, in particular the maintenance of jobs and the continuation of business operations in Slovenia, and in particular that the sale does not discriminate against employees if they are able to buy the company. For these reasons and those expectations, we will support the proposal for a law and hope that the corrections that have been made in this law will make a significant contribution to remedying the shortcomings identified in the basic text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The new Bad Bank Act was an opportunity to improve the functioning of this bad bank, but unfortunately we missed that opportunity again. In the first two discussions, the coalition was not prepared to support the measures proposed by the amendments in the United Left to address the reasons why the bad bank had not yet acted in the public interest. In particular, three areas in which we have also made concrete changes should be addressed. First of all, it is a human resources and wage policy, then the objectives and methods of the poor bank's operation, and lastly, its functioning should be monitored. In this conclusion, I will once again take up exactly what is wrong in these areas. In terms of salary and human resources policy, virtually everything has already been said at various meetings. Nevertheless, the government did not do everything to prevent abuse. The Governing Board still has people who are obviously in conflict of interest, some of whom we have even caught on boards, and who are at least objectively responsible for the violations that have taken place in our banking sector. On the other hand, a bad bank is not subject to the salary limits applicable to other state-owned enterprises, so called the Lachovnik Act. As far as supervision is concerned, the coalition did not provide the conditions for the Ministry of Finance, which now receives supervisory powers, to actually exercise this control. However, if the Ministry does not have access to confidential information, it cannot exercise control. Bad claims are always credit contracts in recent instances, but credit contracts, credit maps in this case remain confidential; it is said that the ministry will not be able to carry out effective controls. The second reserve, which remained unfulfilled in the area of control, is the internal supervision of employees who, despite the novelty, will still not have their representatives in the supervisory board. And once again, the bad bank has over 100 employees, and probably not everyone is morally compromised as a guide we watch on television. Then it's about goals and methods. A bad bank performs two functions. The sale of claims must pay off the bonds with which it has purchased these claims, on the other hand, that is the second objective, and companies must recover. These two objectives are to some extent contrary, but there is also a solution here that is in the public interest. As there is no need for a bad bank to deal with profits, it is sufficient to meet its minimum obligations and these obligations are manageable because claims have been transferred at very low values to a bad bank. If we remember, the discount was almost 70%. Therefore, the bad bank should sell claims and shares only in non-strategic companies and maintain shares in companies that can serve a long-term public interest. For the purpose of production is not only profit, but it is employment and well-being of the population. These shares in strategic and important companies may then be sold to SDH or employees on the basis of a preliminary right. However, it would be best to keep them until 2023, when all assets of the bad bank will be transferred to the Slovenian State Holding and thereby create a base, backbone for the Slovenian economy. The novelty lasts with two preliminary rights, namely for SDH and for employees in companies owned by DUTB. However, our proposal was not adopted, which envisaged that municipalities could buy out the dwellings of a bad bank and make them available to their citizens. We are also giving up one reserve, and we are giving up mainly to young, young families who cannot access apartments, but we still have thousands of empty apartments, even new ones that have landed on a bad bank after the collapse of the construction sector. So if I draw the line, although the novel is going in the right direction, it is not decisive enough and unfortunately does not solve the essential issues effectively enough, so we cannot support it in the United Left. However, we will support the amendment you have proposed because it is the same: it is going in the right direction, but unfortunately in other areas it would be possible to do much more at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Dušan Verbich and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, even from this place, from seat no. 90, everyone's welcome! Colleagues and colleagues, bad claims are the star standing in our debates. Of course this word relationship star is wrong. We'd better call it a black hole if we're in astronomical terminology. The black hole; the black moon is so concentrated a mass of matter that it has so much gravity that it even absorbs photons, i.e. light. And when we talk about bank holes, it can actually be a parallel here; bank holes, but we all agree here, so it's those that kind of suck up our economic development and it burdens us. Thank God we note that the economic situation has improved, but the unprofitable claims hinder greater lending growth and, of course, faster economic recovery; and this is the problem. Recently, Banka Slovenije published data on the new level of poor claims in the Slovenian banking system, EUR 5.9 billion, and given that about 60% of the Slovenian banking system is state-owned, so here is the task in the country to do something about it. This is in Parliament and above all in the Government. The change in business models is therefore inevitable in my firm belief, because it is not as simple as we have done so far, because it will only be possible long-term sustainability – the current structure of the Slovenian banking system does not meet this. I agree with the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia that we have too many banks in Slovenia, we have too many banks, and that governance in some is still at stake. In which, this question can be answered by everyone. So fate is again in the hands of the country, as it is said, two thirds of the banking system is in the hands of the State, so the State must accelerate the resolution of the issue of poor claims and thus prevent taxpayers from falling back into bank resolution wallets. How the government will do this is, of course, a question for the government first. When we talk about bad claims and still holes or new holes, if you want, we too, Members make several mistakes to call on Banka Slovenije and the management of business banks, too few times if I speak from memory, but we almost never call on the responsibility of the supervisory councils. In fact, they are real, so they are supervisory councils, members of administrations are actually busier workers, they have a contract with the Supervisory Council, they should be replaced, they should be celebrated if they do not meet the objectives, so in New Slovenia we understand corporate governance. Here, in this place, I have to point out again, which, of course, is not exactly the content of this item on the agenda right now, but really citizens are encouraging and warning me, even with letters, I can show them. See what I'm talking about; I'm talking about the fact that recently a very clear American economist, James Henry, who is a well-known, world-famous researcher in the global tax avoidance industry – we have a very interesting expression, that is, the global tax avoidance industry – has served with data that citizens of Slovenia have passed between EUR 50 and 75 billion abroad or into tax havens. €50 and €75 billion of money went from Slovenia to tax havens. Here is a question for the Government: whether the Government will deal with solving, at least partially solving this issue, this problem that is not easy. But years ago, as we all know, it was relatively simply solved by Mrs Angela Merkel, who simply bought it, paid the data – perhaps even some legislation had to be changed about banking secrecy and so on, but this is not a debate on these details, but they are details – and if we once got this data, then I think we could do better in this country. We have a lot of ideas, lots of different projects. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u19	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament have a very nice greeting! With regard to this law, the following issue has been raised many times: why is it proposed to adopt only a novel and not a new law? I think it's right that even now, on this occasion, it's obvious why it is. The current Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is governed by two areas; one is measures for the stability of banks and the other is directly linked to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. It must be made very clear that the first area is not affected in any way by this proposal for a law on amendments and additions. So the purpose of the novel is not to create any new framework for bank resolution. The aim is to ensure a successful and favourable conclusion for taxpayers of bank recovery processes that have started in the past. The moment we touch the Bank Claims Management Company, there are two key issues. The first question is its competence; what can and should not be done by this society. The second is the issue of its legal status. Here too, it must be firmly said that this work on the issue of the legal situation does not touch anything with this change. Why is that important? In particular, because the Bank Claims Management Company is a legal company that issues bonds and any intervention in this part of the Bank Claims Management Company structure could have an impact on the characteristics of the bonds themselves and this cannot simply happen. The second part, however, is that part, which is affected by this amendment to the law, is the regulation of the Banks Claims Management Society and what is among the most important issues of this amendment, is the introduction of a new business model, which we know with a very broad substantive meaning, and this is restructuring. Why is it so important to introduce this change? In particular because of the fact that the existing legal dictatorship of this institution does not practically use or define it. If that is not the case, then we must all be aware that in these business processes, where the Claims Management Company exercises its competence, a host of legal or other business perceptions that we do not want to take place can be opened up, and in recent or recent months we have witnessed various legal disputes. I would like to make another point on this occasion, namely the relationship between the Company for the Management of Bank Claims and the Slovenian State Holding. I think that this force is important mainly because, in public and in part, in the professional public, such basic means both companies are blurry. It must be made clear that the powers of both companies are not duplicated, as the Company for the Management of Bank Claims manages its assets and not its assets, as the Slovenian State Holding does. In doing so, DUTB shall primarily manage the claim from companies in financial difficulty and SDH shall manage shares in the operating companies of which it is the property of the State. It is said that SDH manages so-called corporate rights, unlike the DUTB, which manages bond rights in this case. It is clear from this that the mission of one or the other companies is not being duplicated. It is also worth mentioning that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a representative of the owner at the Assembly of the Banks Claims Management Company, has already called for it to cooperate with the Slovenian State Holding Company, because in all the forthcoming further and envisaged procedures it is necessary that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims inform the Slovenian State Holding about any planned sales or claims or companies that are strategic or important for the country. If I finish here. Finally, the requirement for the independence of the Bank's Claims Management Company is also based on a series of international recommendations requiring that firm corporate management be maintained in this company. And what does that mean? To take decisions, in particular, by this company itself, without political influence or by so-called external commissions. DUTB was, in general, able to say, set up or set up as some sort of agent concentrating claims, and then it is logical to sell them as soon as possible, if it follows in particular the desire to find an active owner. If we look very hard at these two, three years of the company's operation, we can ask ourselves if this model has been implemented and carried out as expected, I will use the term, especially the taxpayers. Objectively and critically, we can say yes or no. We could also touch on the debate that the honourable Member pointed out in his presentation whether this company, which was established, was the right model as regards the establishment of a single management. These are open matters that everyone can ask about today in one way or another. I am firmly in the position that the decision at the time in the situation was a good decision to have a single management, because the Company Act also sends owners to companies where there are usually only one owners, to such management mainly for the purpose of optimizing processes, since then we have only two bodies, and these are the assembly and the board of directors. It is true, however, that the great difficulty of managing bad claims is that it is virtually impossible to objectively assess the performance of work, debt, restructuring and also the weight of quantification without knowing exactly the details of the individual undertakings to which such claims exist. However, it is even more difficult to actually assess cases of individual claims sales, where the majority are not quite clear their real value. Because of the last complication we have witnessed a few months ago, it is said that the legal complication between Sava, d.d. and DUTB, we simply need to be aware that with such a legal battle, the most lost assets are primarily for taxpayers. There is certainly a question on the ground of how to proceed with the management of bad claims that things do not go in the direction of taxpayers being played again. I am confident that the government will have to respond to this throughout the duration of the Banks Claims Management Company. I also agree that it is right that we are critical. Surely, however, all the weight of this work is in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance. I myself firmly believe that a new business model called restructuring is needed, but with a certain degree of criticality to these procedures. For all the years of operation of the Bank Management Company, and I can extend it to others, so far it has turned out that companies traditionally owned by so-called state-owned property have been poorly managed, we can say, simply in a state-run manger. What guarantee do we have now that the story won't happen again years ago? Will we again witness the reality that the restructuring processes will become a pump for people who prefer to take care of themselves and see opportunities for personal benefit? I warn or mention this mainly because of the fact and the conclusion that more than the State's equity contribution, governance or governance is worse. Let me touch on the criticality of another important matter, namely, the experts in this area point out, there is always a question of how much or how much restructuring costs are justified and whether an undertaking can be sold for so much more that these costs are justified, as restructuring processes are generally taking place too slowly. If I go back to the amendment of the law. I think it's right for me to touch personally what's the most important change. I estimate two; the first, the extension of the Bank's Claims Management Company, which means that the company's operation has been extended from 2017 until 2022. Why do I think this is very important? Mainly because of allowing claims and perhaps real estate as real property to be sold in time and in the way that there is no time pressure in these procedures regarding the urgency of sales and thus – let's be honest and fair – we come to a more favourable conclusion, or if we can say otherwise, fair market prices and I think that here is the interest of all of us, let this happen. Another important issue is the restructuring of companies, companies where the Claims Management Company has its claim, perhaps we can also talk about ownership or investment. Here I expect firm and transparent procedures based on the professional economic basis of which legal persons have healthy business cores or processes in their composition, whatever we call them, which are market-oriented and can also generate profits from such business. However, the so-called friendly economy must not be followed and I am sure that the Finance Minister will be very careful given that he has solely or very much control over these processes. If I end it somehow. A solution for the country and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, which, as was initially said, is to maximise the price or profit of selling bad claims and restructuring businesses in that part – says healthy business cores – certainly also to keep as many jobs as possible, but it is a condition that responsible owners are really found as soon as possible. With regard to the proposal for a law, we assess that this content is still necessary, since it also includes mechanisms that we have witnessed in the presentation itself, I can tell the guards that the operations of the Bank's Claims Management Company are getting in the way we all want; and this is, to the greatest extent possible, to repay the money invested by the bank's taxpayers who are state-owned. As far as the amendments tabled in the opening article 8 of this amendment are concerned, I can only say that I very much welcome the content itself, but I am sure that there are several words below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr President, and once again a very nice greeting to all present! According to the proposed Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, it is necessary to extend the period of the Bank's Claims Management Company until at least 31 December 2022, since the tasks performed by the company are not for a short period of time but are responsible for the effective restructuring of companies whose partner or creditor has become DUTB as a result of measures to strengthen the stability of banks. The most important task of the DUTB is to restructure businesses, that is to say to help to restructure the work of companies that can operate and maintain jobs in the long term and strengthen themselves on their own. The next task of the DUTB is to take the DUTB with the best sale, to return the funds to the budget and at the same time to strengthen the stability of banks by maximising profits. DUTB is an economic and business company. A country which is also the sole partner as a marriage for all obligations needs information and influence on the company's business. Such an impact must be within the framework of corporate rights. The fact that the DUTB has executive directors that it is those who decide on the business of the company follows that a division of the management and control function is introduced in the company. The Ministry of Finance shall monitor, on the basis of the documents transmitted, the full functioning of the DUTB, but shall not interfere with the DUTB’s daily business decisions. The Ministry of Finance may request SDH and this Court of Auditors to exercise control if there is a suspicion of damage to the Republic of Slovenia or corruption. We support efforts to establish a minimum or zero risk to buy businesses in the sales process who have bankrupted the company due to extremely high credits, impossible repayments and in the process of restructuring in DUTB buy back a small money company. Customers may not be all who had any contact with the company before or during the restructuring. Finally, it is important that SDH is also willing to talk to the employees of the company in the sales process. It may be bought by them or warned against speculative candidates. The possibility of joining the DUTB Probanka and Factor Bank is intended to ensure that their information system, which has been leased by DUTB since 2014, is so tested, makes sense because both banks are in liquidation. I will support the law, as will my colleagues in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u23	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas and Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the rehabilitation of the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia, it is not possible to avoid the fact that it is clearly an extremely accurate plan, how, in fact, to drain as much of the property as possible into tax havens as data show. Even if we look at the launch of stress tests, which were the basis for us to approach the recapitalisation of banks, in my opinion, to a significantly greater extent than was necessary, and not least to the extent that the adoption of the bad bank law was a matter of an extremely systematic approach to the exhaustion of Slovenia. Because even a bad bank as one we're talking about today shows that 5 billion assets from banks have been transferred to a bad bank with a 70% discount. This property is worth 1.5 billion today. Finally, very high interest is paid for bonds with which the State guarantees these claims as well. I think that these interest rates are moving around around 5,4 %, which means that when banks have disposed of these bad claims, they receive quite a lot of money, and in fact they don't have to think about entering into new credit contracts, they give money that they have in such a large amount that they deposit abroad in a way that they pay those who deposit that money to them, not that they get interest for these investments. I think that one of the ways in which a bad bank operates by the Government should go in this direction, however, to try to examine the liabilities or interest paid for the bonds issued. The bad bank will even have to take responsibility to settle these interests, which is not a good solution. So, would you rather not ask yourself whether these interest rates have fallen from – I don't know – 4,5 % interest rates, perhaps to one percent, which is a normal percentage, and would reduce these obligations that arise and burden all of us. For if the bad bank does not sell at least at book value or at a higher value than the book value of the claims, all these obligations will remain with us; that is, on taxpayers. It is therefore right to make this very clear in the context of the discussions on the bad bank. Last but not least because it is re-thinking that at least around 5 billion non-profit claims would be transferred again from banks to a new bad bank, and if this mechanism, which we now have before us and which we find is a mechanism that allows many abuses, is not cleared, in any case, should not, in my opinion, join the creation of a new bad bank, which can only be re-designed to re-exhaust the country in a part where it is not yet sufficiently up to date. When we are talking about bad claims and bank resolution mechanisms at this point, where we can see that very large amounts of funds are actually being drained, i.e. 4.8 billion recapitalisation of banks, a decline from 5 billion to 1.5 billion, i.e. 3.5 billion euro weakening when claims went to a bad bank – these are enormous amounts. On the other hand, if we make a parallel with what happened to public funds during this period, especially those which were intended for the security of the State or, if you want more specifically, for the functioning of the police, these funds have been systematically reduced from year to year from the mandate to the mandate. On the one hand, on the one hand, the adoption of laws allowing for a number of machinations – I am even this law, which was adopted at the time of the Janša government, marked to legalise the place of private property, which became first stately and then with cheap reselling it can become private again. If we are to successfully prevent and monitor all these processes, we also need a very good security system, and we also need very good conditions for the work of the police and all other bodies that can monitor irregularities and monitor the irregularities that are taking place in this area. It is quite unusual that even at the moment when all these things are already being resolved, I think we are very well aware of the problem, we are too slow to resolve the problem of police officers and many of these funds, which are intended for the rehabilitation of banks, could be allocated in a very short period to improve the working conditions of the police. This I think is one of the solutions that we really need to address in a very short time, so that in the future we can talk about truly leading the country in the way that people imagine and expect from all of us. Thus, the solutions that are currently contained in this law are, first of all, I hope to make an assessment, to the extent that they relate to the management of enterprises, precisely as reflected in the Court of Auditors’ review of the operation of the bad bank, made recommendations and, lastly, the Government has committed itself to go into the amendment of this law to comply with the Court of Auditors’ recommendations and requirements. That is why we are not last here today on this subject. The supervision of the Court of Auditors and all the bodies we have in Slovenia is also extremely important. We have met many times during this period precisely this question of where it should be located and in what procedures it should have an insight into the Court of Auditors, in which it does not. It should be pointed out here that Banka Slovenije is yet another institution that is extremely independent in this period, what is happening within its structure and its solutions, and therefore this new insight into the functioning of the Court of Auditors shows that one effort should be made in the direction that the authorities responsible and qualified to do so should also be involved in this process of analysis. Without, if you want, a systematic approach in the opposite direction to what has been happening in Slovenia in the last period, we do not expect to be able to successfully establish the functioning of all elements in the country in the future. This pressure, which is also present through the rehabilitation of banks and, last but not least, the transfer of all these liabilities both to the pension system and to the pay system, both to the school system, health and so on, shows that these measures have been exaggerated, which have been carried out, in order to try to cover up a number of procedures that have exhausted our companies, which have led to the fact that many remain unemployed and we have to do so, and we can only refrain from taking a systematic approach to analysing everything that has happened, and then taking measures to remedy it in the future, to prevent and continue on a sound basis in the functioning of the country as a whole. At that time, there will be no problems, no problems with the local government, no problems with the police, or they will be significantly smaller, significantly easier to manage, no problems with the financing of the economy, and, last but not least, we have very much luck and a great deal of gratitude to the economy that it can finance development and modernisation through its own resources, so that our economy can be present in foreign markets. Unfortunately, despite the extraordinary rehabilitation of banks and despite the fact that we have passed on bad claims, so-called bad claims from banks to bad banks – banks do not lend our economy. Therefore, once again, as long as the banks receive such good interest on these bad claims, they will not be motivated by anything to enter into new lending contracts, and not least to take on the risks that banks must take. This is their primary task when they conclude a contract, they also take the risk of actually carrying out this business to such an extent and will be as profitable as they expected or not. That is why they also have reserves and that is why we can also talk about the need to ensure the appropriate capital adequacy of these banks, which they have, and last but not least, we also have an extremely large amount of deposited savings in banks and, last but not least, the role of companies in banks is growing. That's all the terms, but if you don't have to borrow money because you have enough income from these bonds, then it just doesn't happen in Slovenia. This is the big reserve we have ahead of us, and I hope we make the most of it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u25	Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Roberto Battelli and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to say a few words about what colleague Dobovšek did or somehow touched on the position and touched on the non-executive directors and the fact that they should be regularly employed or full-time. Given that this is still a small area of mine, I would like to allow myself a few comments on this. As far as duty is concerned, when we look at foreign practices to be non-executive directors of 100%, it is said to be full-time, in principle it is not a specific practice. Also, when we look at studies or those who are involved in what the duties, tasks of non-executive directors are, what they do, how they do and how this function can best be done, they say a little differently. One of the better literature on this subject, I think, is the Higgs report, which it issued in essence, could be said in the same way as our commission, which we have for the supervision of public finances, in the British Parliament. In this context, they have also drawn up this report in 2003, because there has been a lot of confusion in this area, it is said that their powers and so on are. At the time of this development, there are also quite some interesting things written there, which touch on the effectiveness of non-executive directors. There are also interesting clues, including one survey done at the time in British companies Top 100 companies, what other executive directors do next to the other or what non-executive directors do. Then it was also, somehow, recommended that the non-executive – is said to be the full-time CEO of a company, that it is also recommended that a non-executive director be in a company; it is said, in one company which would not be their competitor. This is because it would then be better to carry out its tasks also because of some additional breadth it would have had; it is said that someone who is the Executive Director, at the same time as a non-executive function in another company, could perform this task significantly better. Since he knows exactly what the Executive Director has to do, he knows his powers, and he knows his own, this way of doing it is better. Then there are other options; it is said that it is recommended that if there is an executive director somewhere to take over only one function, it was recommended, but there were no limitations in terms of non-executive directors who do not carry out their functions professionally, precisely because it is extremely difficult to define how much the burden is individual. Thus this is somehow left to everyone from a professional point of view, to judge for himself how capable he is and how much he can add that he is still in favor of that society. Of course, it's up to the owners. If we go any further than this, I believe that in Slovenia, given that this is a relative novelty, this practice will still be built in this area – we have a lot in foreign literature, in foreign practice. Even in this context, it is likely that some other companies will opt for a single management if they see that this is something smart, and we will eventually come to our practice in this area. The second point I wanted to point out was to somehow repeat what was in some way already in the position, the invitation given to the other parliamentary groups with regard to Article 8. On our part, of course, it was honest, the result is here as well; it is said that, in part, taking into account one proposal made by the United Left, fully respecting what was then after the two somehow unsuccessful amendments tabled by the SDS – because I think it was more of just one procedural error and they failed to reach us somehow in the form they imagined, then we fully respected the third one that they tabled. Also, what I admit is that we have not taken one look into account, that is what Mr Dobovšek has pointed out, perhaps it is a pity that he has not previously pointed out that he is thinking about it. It is precisely that those who somehow have one specific information – it is said, as regards stress tests concerning the quality test of banks’ assets – try to limit them somehow; it is said that in the law this area is so limited that they could not – we could call it – with some insider reforms – help their customers to also gain some unjustifiable benefit or some competitive advantage over others on the basis of information that they do not all have exactly access to. As for the latter, this ZUKSB, or the law governing the operation of the so-called bad bank, is part of a broader mosaic, and in this context I see more than one stabilisation of the banking system, it falls into another wider picture, and this was one of the greatest risks we have in our time of crisis; it is said to be the stability of the banking system and the potential impact on public finances. I think it is being done solidly that these improvements have been in the right direction before and now. On what do I conclude? Especially on the basis of how much we are trusted by those who actually lend us money. We committed ourselves this year – so we have already acquired 20-year bonds, the interest rate was 1.5%, compared to those in a difficult situation, in the crisis when all the bells rang, and at least abroad, those risks were still high until then the measures, and not only on our side, I think we can talk about some of these governments too. There were, for example, more than 7% of these interest rates in the peak of the crisis for a significantly shorter deadline. Also, if we go to see, we have as short — medium-term and long-term types of debt, so that it somehow aligns with those manuals as well as some assets on the other hand. If we put this together, this fall in interest, even with some economic and such growth, shows that we are somehow on the right track. Why is interest important? It is said that low indebtedness in the Republic of Slovenia is important and also for the economy because when interest rates are lowered on one side in Slovenia, it means that credit ratings have improved – they are. At the expense of these credit ratings, given that no company can be more indebted than the country is indebted to, the fact that the country can be less indebted also helps the economy to be in a more cost-effective debt. As it is said, I will – these amendments are said by those who have been tabled by unrelated Members of ours, who are sort of summarizing the SDS, and partly by one proposal from the United Left – as, of course, as supported by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u27	Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. DUTB in 100 % of state ownership is created as a result of what happened in the banking system on the basis of the state-owned bank-owned companies. The bank hole, which was created, is not a natural matter, is a system distortion and is something that happened despite Banka Slovenije, despite the Racan court. This DURB paper in Article 2 states that the Ministry, the government, can obtain all the data except classified. On the other hand, several times an amendment has been rejected to join the board of directors, I am simplifying, as well as the bad banks, also the president of the Committee on Finances and the chairman of the Committee on Public Finance Control. This means that the issue is being pushed into a position that existed even when the bank hole was created. There's nothing new about that. And it excites, not just me, concern. Some colleagues said the following: that in the composition of these DUB-led bodies, it was careful that those involved in creating the bank hole were not involved. Now I ask – how do these colleagues know who is who? As regards the so-called, vulgarly called, friendly approach to managing people-owned matters, after all, this phenomenon is usually an approach such that it is believed that it will no longer happen, that it is hoped that things will go better, that something is wanted to go away in a way that the damage will be reduced because it cannot be removed. In short, we are still dealing with the consequences and are not addressing the causes that have led us to the situation we are in. The positive thing so far is that the vast majority of people's roles have been secured, but what is very important, far from being eliminated are the reasons that can once again pose a fundamental threat to the existence of all the inhabitants of Slovenia and to anyone else. I'm so not sure I'm capable of supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u29	We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Method Dragonja, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting the amendment of the law, which has been passed by representatives of the parliamentary groups. Secondly, I would like to say that the debate on this law has been difficult and also relatively long, which shows the complexity of the problem, and that the functioning of the bad bank has been an open type of dilemma in the public eye, that this is a warning to the Court of Auditors and that we have been constantly exposed to criticism that the functioning of the bad bank needs to be improved. As has already been stated during the discussion, the amendment of the law does not, in fact, prejudice back to the time when bad loans were transferred to a bad bank. This is said not to change these mechanisms, which does not mean that the audits of these procedures and the checks carried out, which are also carried out by the special parliamentary commission within the framework of the institution of parliamentary supervision, are not carried out. The essence of this novelty is to identify new and more active forms of the DUTB’s operation, as regards restructuring companies, maintaining healthy cores and maintaining jobs, and to regulate some other matters related to more efficient governance and more effective control. I agree with the debaters that the amendment of the law only partially solves this problem. The reason why the Government has not introduced a new law is mainly because, practically all of this year, a new directive on bank termination and reorganisation was introduced at the European Commission or a single mechanism for bank resolution at the level of Europe was established. The law could not be written in a situation where the European Directive had not yet been adopted. Therefore, the new law, which will define the issue of bank termination and resolution, is one of the government's priorities and will be put into consideration by the National Assembly in the first half of next year. This law will have to address this issue in a new way, in line with the new principles and mechanisms that are now in place not only at national level but throughout the European area within the monetary union. Otherwise, Slovenia is faced with the difficulty of managing bad credits, as is the case with a number of other European countries that have had problems in the banking system and which have also transferred bad credits to their bad banks, in Slovenia, we may, in addition to the functioning of the Slovenian bad bank, face the most economic activity in the economic area with the operation of one of the Austrian bad banks, which has accepted the poor asset of the Hypo Group and can also compare the practice of our bad bank with the practice of HETA Asset Management in our area, this is a bad bank that is set up to solve this kind of problem in our relatively close financial group. Thus, on the basis of the consideration of the law, it is essential that the Government be further active in order to ensure the functioning of the bad bank in line with the objectives of this amendment within the extended time frame and that we also ensure other objectives, not only those related to the optimization or maximisation of value, but that we follow somehow balanced goals and restructure poor loans in relation to the bad bank and other institutions, especially the Slovenian State Holding. There were also some additional comments or remarks in the debate, such as those relating to the interest rate, which is what Member Weber stressed, on the bonds issued. This situation reflected the situation in financial markets when poor loans were transferred to a bad bank in individual years. The most pronounced interest rates were up to 4,5 % in 2013. Here I would like to point out that in December this year the bad bank has already paid its first issue of bonds of 505 million, 300 million in cash, and 200 million of this bond has been refinanced with a financial debt, including a significantly more favourable interest rate, even without a state guarantee. Today, the bad bank can borrow EURO IBOR plus 100 basis points and this trend will continue. The relative high interest rate is still due at the end of 2016, and then the maturity in 2017 and in 2017 in two bonds are significantly lower, at 150 basis points or 135 basis points. Thus, active management of the liability of a bad bank is also one of the very important activities in order to reduce the cost or lower the cost of this entire operation. I would like to say that, over the past period, we have also been doing a lot of work on the impact of the bad bank on the deficit of the whole country sector, because certain operations of the bad banks are attributed to the deficit of the state sector, and in this part, the Government has also made a lot of efforts to coordinate these activities with the bad bank from this point of view as well as with institutions responsible for this, such as the European Commission and Eurostat, that we are actively discussing that we will be able to ensure the functioning of the bad bank in this part comparable to other bad banks. Here it is worth noting that Slovenia's bad bank was set up in 100 % state ownership and is classified in the country's sector, while most other comparable European banks, the Spanish bad bank, the Irish bad bank, which is the most exemplary, are in its private ownership structure, and is a minority-owned country. In fact, part of the business practices and problems we faced were also due to the fact that Slovenia's bad bank acted in a less transparent way because, compared to these comparable foreign banks, which are private, in fact, it could apply, I would say, a lower degree of transparency of business. In our country, however, we are now very consistently implementing this principle in order to ensure that transparency is as high as possible at this stage, when poor loans are being resolved when this property is being sold out, and that in these processes we can ensure all those objectives that were when we addressed and explained the changes that we are introducing in this work in order to ensure this as effectively as possible. I am sure that the adoption of the novel will in fact allow for better control of the DUTB and more effective functioning of the DUTB. However, further measures, which are linked to the treatment of bad loans in bad banks, in business banks, should certainly not be placed in the field in order to cover the costs incurred in this regard by taxpayers in order to keep this in public debt. That is why approaches to how to resolve, to continue to resolve the bad loans left in banks or emerging ones need to be dealt with very carefully, because the new mechanisms will have to be based on new principles that this law does not cover or will have to ensure that the latter contribute to solving these problems. These would be the main substantive points. Once again, we are counting on the support of the third-reading article, Article 8, of the novel, and we can make sure that the Ministry of Finance is trying and acting in order to ensure the responsible management of the bad bank and then the responsible implementation of the mission that this law provides for the poor bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u31	I conclude the debate on the draft law on the whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD and the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is in the wake of a proposal made in connection with the problem of the global treaty in the new Ljubljana Bank. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for a recommendation, I give the floor to the member of the committee of mags. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, at the proposal of my Group of Members, we addressed the issue of the Advisory Treaty in the New Ljubljana Bank and adopted two conclusions as a recommendation that we discuss this and, of course, also vote in the National Assembly. Since 2008, Nova Ljubljanska Banka as Slovenia's largest bank has repeatedly received both public criticism and spending capital aid – countries, of course. Thus, in 2008 the State recapitalised the New Ljubljana Bank with EUR 300 million; in 2011 this recapitalisation amounted to EUR 243 million; 320 million we put in this bank in 2012 and about a billion and a half in 2013. This can also be added to the value of the transfer to the so-called bad bank and the value of written-off hybrid and subordinated securities. We can see that the biggest Slovenian bank received €3.4 billion of aid from the country between 2008 and 2013. This is the amount representing 26 % of the total planned revenue of the state budget, or otherwise the amount required for the full payment of the salaries of the whole public sector — annually, of course — the amount collected annually by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. So there is certainly a sufficient reason that the public can rightly be critical of the conduct and operation of the largest Slovenian bank. The same bank entered into an advisory agreement with R. U.R. a year ago, a company for business advice and research, do. o. owned by former KPD President Drag Kos, 90%. In accordance with the Bank's contracts, R. U.R. carries out a specialised forensic audit of bad credits or reviews credit maps and identifies irregularities for which NLB has so far paid them EUR 765 000. In comparison, the audit advisory houses KPMG and Ernest & Young received a total of EUR 731 000. So less money than R. U.R. The skills of employees in these two companies are known and verifiable, and the recommendations on the work done by both agencies are also known. It is not known in the public who works alongside Drag Kos, but we do not know what their skills are, what their recommendations and experience have, and according to the value of the contract they must be comparable or even greater than those in the companies mentioned above. In addition, Nova Ljubljanska Banka has also established its own business coherence and integrity strengthening centre, which is run by another former KPK collaborator. Of course, it is not clear what the centre is doing if it was necessary to hire R. U.R. and pay EUR 63,000 a month for the work done, which is, by the way, more than ten months' wages to the Prime Minister. It would be interesting to hear how much of the new bad loans from the Nova Ljubljanska banka group have been reduced since the management of the business and strengthening centre and how much enhancement of integrity has been taken over by Mr Rok Praprotnik or exactly what this centre is doing and how many criminal charges and damages have been filed and how successful they have been. In its report, the Commission proposes that the National Assembly should adopt a decision to propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the third indent of paragraph 2 of paragraph 5 of Article 20, and in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, to review the operation of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka, d.d., also in terms of the management of the bank's poor claims. Second decision or recommendation: The National Assembly proposes to the Government and the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., to review and ensure the legality and efficiency of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank in accordance with their competences and to verify the results of the conclusion of the contract with R. U.R.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Methoda Dragoni.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the Commission’s proposal for the supervision of public finances in the work relating to the proposal for the Court of Auditors to review the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank also from the point of view of the management of poor claims, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia states that the Law on the Court of Auditors, in the framework of the determination of audit powers, provides indisputably for the Court of Auditors to revise the bank. The Court of Auditors shall exercise its powers under the law on its own initiative and shall be guaranteed the status of independence and independence by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the law already mentioned. With regard to the review and assurance of the legality and efficiency of the operation of NLB and the verification of the results of the conclusion of the contract with R. U.R., the Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out that it has no jurisdiction to interfere with the Bank’s business policy, i.e. not to conclude advisory contracts. Doing business or determining the business policy of the bank is the responsibility of the administration, which is independent and therefore assumes full responsibility. The supervision of the operation of the bank is in the hands of the Supervisory Board, which is an independent and independent body. The management and supervisory board of the banks must act in accordance with applicable legislation and economically. The Republic of Slovenia is the 100 % owner of NLB, the rights of the Republic of Slovenia as a shareholder in state-owned banks are exercised by the Slovenian State Holding. However, the operation of the Slovenian State Holding is subject to Article 7, which explicitly lays down the principle of independence, whereby SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of the State authorities or third parties in the performance of their statutory tasks. They must act independently and independently. This means that the Government must not give instructions directly to the Ljubljana Bank or to the management of SDH. However, Article 69 of the Slovenian State Holding Act provides that the Ministry of Finance, Government or other body may, in exercising its legal powers, in the event that it identifies the facts and circumstances which demonstrate the suspicion of damage to the Republic of Slovenia or SDH, as a representative of public interest, propose procedures for the initiation of specific audits, the initiation of indemnification proceedings against members of the management and control bodies and any other relevant procedures to protect the assets and interests of the Republic of Slovenia. In this light, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia called on the Slovenian State Holding to verify, within its competences, the prudent conclusion of the advisory agreement with R. U. R............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The government will decide in further procedures when it obtains the Slovenian State Holding Report and, depending on whether this recommendation is satisfactory or not, then propose further measures. It is possible that the Government will also conclude on a specific audit in accordance with the Company Act, but this decision will be taken once the Government has received a report from the Slovenian State Holding on the issue which has been the subject of the hearing or which is the subject of the hearing at today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u36	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The problem we are dealing with, the issue of advisory contracts, is the problem in Slovenia. Days ago, we had a consultation in the State Council, where we also dealt with this lobbying issue in part; in lobbying, we found that those who are registered lobbyists are carrying out their activities in a transparent manner and that a whole bunch of activities are carried out under the cover of advisory contracts, where we do not really know who is managing for whom and what kind of business is being carried out. We are therefore wondering what kind of personnel occupy certain positions, so that they need advisory contracts to carry out their activities at all. In the New Ljubljana Bank, we have not only a problem with searching the bank's hole, but also other advisory contracts, but at this point we are focusing on this topic. We have seen that the Government supports certain solutions in this direction, and we have followed the view of the Government, which has just been presented and have therefore tabled an amendment that you have received, which is precisely in this direction, to highlight this solution in accordance with the OECD guidelines, which require the Government to act transparently, create policies, implement transparent mechanisms and then report to Parliament, which we have also proposed to report on its activities and on its supervision to the relevant committee of Parliament. If I focus on the investigation, which is the problem of the New Ljubljana Bank, we can see that it is a privatisation of the investigation. The point is that on the one hand we have state authorities that have difficulty accessing certain data – we have not seen any house investigations in the New Ljubljana Bank, but we have house investigations in Parliament. In view of the above, we have private organisations that can investigate those maps that they say should not have any insight into these maps in Parliament. I wonder why it's in the interest of someone not to get this information, but private people can. The point is that the relationship between the two, the one being investigated, and the one investigating is hidden. You could say it's like the tango, it takes two of them to tango, and they can both be guilty. The interest of the bank is not to know how many of these controversial transactions there are, who did them, and what damage this is to the bank. Because if all of this is exposed, then the bank loses its reputation and indirectly loses its clients. Since the transactions are covert, we do not know exactly what the purpose of these transactions is, what insight these investigators have, whether they have unlimited insight, or whether the bank restricts their view of this business. What are the investigators' references? It has been mentioned that they have even better investigators than the police and more time. If we know that there is a forensic institute within the police, which is internationally registered, I wonder what forensics the private organisation has in relation to the registered institute, because if we find them later in criminal proceedings, those accredited abroad have the advantage. We see in the house investigations then the problem is to prove that the evidence is wrongly taken or that trace of evidence from seizure to evidence in court itself is not shown, and if the trail is not shown, then the evidence falls. Moreover, we do not know what happens then in the final stages, when a settlement occurs between the person who has committed the act and if such a matter is discovered. We therefore believe that the recommended decisions need to be supported, because it is right for the Court of Auditors to examine certain cases as to how the cases have taken place; even more so, we know that there is a similar problem in the Bank of Slovenia. We had a problem open on the committee and we saw that the Court of Auditors did not hope to go to the Bank of Slovenia's audit, which again means that it is an extraterritorial unit in the middle of Slovenia. That is why we will support these amendments in the parliamentary group and the proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you for your word. Well-known representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! In the framework of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, we discussed the initiative of the Group of Non-Aligned Members in relation to the issue of advisory contracts in Nova Ljubljanska banka, d.d. The decisions proposed focus on two content. Engage the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to review NLB from the point of view of the management of poor claims and the proposal to carry out a specific audit with a view to determining the usefulness and efficiency of the contract between NLB and R. U.R., on the basis of which it uses forensic reviews of credit maps related to bad loans. As part of today's discussion of the new facts, it is unlikely that it will be possible to know, as opposed to the plenary session of this house, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there may be a competent committee of several key guests, namely, the President of the NLB administration with a member responsible for the specific field, the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board, the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the President of the Court of Auditors, the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and other guests who could give us the answers to our questions first-hand. The substantive part of the discussion has therefore been completed and we are now moving on to the political part. In the SMC, we have already in the programme and later in the coalition contract to investigate the bank hole, that the competent authorities, the police, the MPU, the prosecution and other key actors are working on this and that they have the support of the government and the coalition as a fact. We have also made this support and request for clarification publicly at all levels, government, national, local and party. The National Assembly may not, for each individual business relationship in the company, for example, determine whether it is prudent or not to have a contract with R. U.R., which is owned by the State, whether it is prudent or not, that authority is on the supervisor, the supervisors who have carried out the review within their audit committee. The suspicions or concerns of this review have not been confirmed. Above them is SDH, for which we have established legislation in a way that can operate professionally and independently of politics. Our demands, at least in the National Assembly, have been primarily put in place by adopting a management strategy that clears our expectations for both the approach to governance and the results. It also clearly articulates what is expected of them in terms of the involvement of appropriate corporate governance. With regard to the progress made so far in the investigation of the bank hole, the competent committee of the National Assembly is regularly informed. For the time being, it is clear that prosecutions or investigations are ongoing and the results are expected in due course, as at least at police level matters are in the final stage. The problems, in particular those faced by law enforcement authorities at the beginning of our mandate in connection with the non-operation of banks in the transmission of data, have largely been resolved and we will also pay particular attention in the future to the fact that there would be no undue delay in investigations. And now for the request of the Court of Auditors. This can, in accordance with the SDH Act, carry out a review of the operations of the NLB over the past 10 years and does not require a specific call from our side. To determine whether this step will be decided, he certainly has a well-trained team that can assess it on the basis of facts, circumstances and expertise or how it will approach it. So in the SMC, we remain firmly committed to having the competent authorities carry out their work because they have sufficient powers, resources, knowledge and duty to protect our common assets and the interest of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of a suspicion of damages. They are and will be supported by SMC for future unconditional support. For this reason, we will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One of the recommendations, one of the two recommendations of the Commission for the supervision of public finances today, is that the Court of Auditors review the business, in particular the viability of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank. We do not know whether or not the Court of Auditors will do this because the Commission for Public Finance Supervision is 18. 12. In accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors and in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, 2014 proposed to the Court of Auditors a year ago to review the New Ljubljana Bank. And that didn't happen. And nothing happened by the Court of Auditors regarding the banking system. At the time, however, Nova Ljubljanska Banka hired a private company to review the contested claims. In other words, the Court of Auditors, which is responsible to the National Assembly after its withdrawal, does not perform its task. In fact, as regards the financial system, the Court of Auditors has done nothing and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that there are no reservations and that the law allows the Court of Auditors to examine the New Ljubljana Bank. It could also be reviewed in 2014. Or rather, for this law has not changed in any way. Where is the case here now, and where is the question now that the Court of Auditors does not actually intervene in the banking sphere? By the way, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has already proposed several times to the Court of Auditors to carry out a review of the Bank of Slovenia, but nothing, today nothing. The Court of Auditors shall examine, in accordance with the law of the other state-owned companies, SDH, DUTB and so on. And it is the same and let it review it and review it more precisely and more precisely, to determine the correctness and prudence of the business. However, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis and DUTB have been caused by the crisis and crime in the Slovenian banking system. DUTB is a result of crime in the Slovenian banking system. And in this area, we have done nothing until today. And the first thing that should be done here is the Court of Auditors, including the President and the entire Senate of the Court of Auditors. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that today, we will support these decisions, we will once again support and we cannot rely on the fact that, in accordance with the law, this is already possible and we will once again appeal to the Court of Auditors to review the New Ljubljana Bank, but I am afraid that the review policy in this country is being created and organized by someone else. And there's no interest in that actually happening. And there is no interest in actually reviewing the New Ljubljana Bank to find disputed contracts, disputed loans, how these loans were actually granted. And simply to determine how much of the funds were paid by taxpayers or taxpayers to these banks for crime. But that's not what this country wants. And in the National Assembly, we're the first ones to figure out why that doesn't happen. Why he criminalizes others and does nothing in the banking area. As long as this is the case, the appeals of the National Assembly will be completely meaningless. The National Assembly will appear and appear as a tiger without teeth – the government does not respect the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors does not take account of the National Assembly. I don't even know who's paying attention to him. What role does the National Assembly play in overseeing various institutions, including the Court of Auditors? I think it's minimal. And given the functioning and integrity of the National Assembly, I think his ratings on this are also falling. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also support the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, once again, but we are afraid because SMC does not support these proposals, that it does so with a fig in its pocket. He's saying something. He's doing something else. Of that, I'm afraid nothing will happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a recommendation that I will not support in the Desus Group. Following a recommendation, the National Assembly should propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to review the operation of Nova Ljubljanska Banka in accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors from the point of view of the management of the bank's bad claims. It must also be recognised that the Court of Auditors Act unquestionably allows the revision of the Ljubljana Bank and that its powers under the law are to be exercised by the Court on its own. The status of independence and independence of the Court of Auditors is ensured by both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Act. It is true, however, that Article 25 of the Act also provides that, in determining the audits to be carried out in a given calendar year, the Court of Auditors shall also consider, inter alia, the proposals of Members and the working bodies of the National Assembly. It must take into account at least five proposals from the National Assembly, of which at least two proposals from opposition Members and at least two proposals from the working bodies of the National Assembly. With regard to the proposal by the Government and SDH to verify the results of the conclusion of the contract with R. U.R., it should be pointed out with regard to the competence of the Government that it does not have the power to interfere with the policy of banks. Otherwise, the Republic of Slovenia owns 100% of the New Ljubljana Bank and its rights as a shareholder are exercised by SDH. However, the SDH Act in Article 69 provides that the Ministry of Finance, as a representative of public interest, may propose a procedure for the initiation of specific audits of compensation procedures and other appropriate procedures to protect the property and interests of the Republic of Slovenia or SDH. This can be done if he finds facts and circumstances in the exercise of his or her legal powers which demonstrate the suspicion of damage to the Republic of Slovenia or SDH. Following the Government's assurances, the Ministry of Finance has already requested SDH, in accordance with Article 69, to verify, within its competences, the usefulness of concluding an advisory agreement with R. U. R. However, once again, that, in accordance with the commitments made to the European Commission, the Government itself cannot and must not judge the individual decisions of the business bank, and this will obviously be done by SDH at the initiative of the Ministry of Finance. For these reasons, we will not support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing a very broad topic that goes beyond the scope of its title, in particular the advisory contracts in a business bank, which is 100 % of state-owned. Because of the nature of this problem and because of the public exposure of the actors of this story, we can very quickly find ourselves at a point where we no longer see the forest because of the trees. In all of this, the public and I are wondering what this is really about. Is it a problem that Nova Ljubljanska Bank is internally investigating disputed loans? Is it not the choice of an operator or the level of its tariff that some do not have? Or perhaps attempts to avoid criminal, material and moral responsibilities in our largest bank between 2004 and 2008. Of course, it is right for the Court of Auditors to decide, if it deems it necessary, to revise the operations of the NLB; I hope that the calls from the National Assembly will be heard. This basis is also given by the Law on the Court of Auditors, but the same law also stipulates that the Court of Auditors is independent and autonomous and is not bound by anyone's or any instructions. With instructions from the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors would be overstepped and intervened in its independence. This does not mean that we do not expect the Court of Auditors to monitor and respond to the current problem, of course in accordance with the autonomy given to it. However, the conscientious and responsible conduct of all management staff in the Court of Auditors is also necessary. This is what the Social Democrats expect from them. We also expect SDH to actively do what exists, and this is the concern about good business and the return on public investment. Therefore, SDH does not need guidance from the National Assembly, but, of course, SDH must act if it suspects non-economicism, otherwise it has abandoned its duty to act. It all shows that in Slovenia we have not yet achieved the standards of good corporate governance, while at the same time misunderstanding the division of powers between the owner, the manager, the company administration and, of course, its supervisors. Since we do not have a uniform view of who can and should therefore bear responsibility, of course we should ban any action. Since, in this case, the owner, the State, is afraid to take an active interest in state property, of course, puts full responsibility on the operator, which, at the same time, protects him by granting him complete autonomy, unties him from responsibility for his actions, and legally binds him even when he has to make decisions that belong to the employer. The owner of state investments and thus the New Ljubljana Bank is the Republic of Slovenia and the Government is in this role. Its ownership responsibility cannot be avoided even if the management has been transferred to SDH. In this whole story, we must first and foremost demand the responsibility of those directly responsible for the good operation of the NLB and require them not only to detect and correct mistakes from the past, but also to focus on the future and set up the business of the bank by becoming the engine of the Slovenian economy again. Thus, the main priority of banks that are recapitalised by our tax money should be to strengthen their basic activities, in some ways banking or selling money that will benefit the economy and people. In recent years, however, we have seen completely different stories, such as those that have made banks the owner of a variety of companies with a wide variety of industries. It seemed that, regardless of the consequences in the first place, this owner was only dealing with the idea of how to get rid of these companies quickly and without considering the consequences, to sell them as soon as possible and to recover their bad loans. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the global financial crisis has given our domestic banks a manoeuvre to create their own crisis. The crises justified by the severe banking spasm, the crises in which banks stepped into the shoes of the key strategic future fate of Slovenian companies of Slovenian brands. Most worrying, however, is that this crisis has caused some banking confusion in the crisis, where it pretends that no one knows who is drinking or who is paying. In the end, people always pay. And if the $5 billion we put in our banks was a guarantee that we were supposed to keep the bank above the level, then it is high time that this account began to be repaid by the banks and all those who were and were responsible for their good and transparent operation. As it is said, we will not support these recommendations, of course, because of all the above. This does not mean that we will not require all those responsible to resolve this banking crisis and to give all the answers to us, to the National Assembly and to the people in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting from me! As we have pointed out in the United Left several times, the banking system, the banking sector has practically developed into a country in the country over the past decade. Not only in Slovenia, but everywhere in Europe. The banking sector acts as if it were some kind of extraterritorial unit. The banking sector behaves as if it does not exist under the laws applicable in this country. The banking sector acts as if some Roman Catholic Church is its special status in individual countries. We are already paying the bill for such behaviour of the banking sector. Between 2004 and 2008, Slovenia's external debt, in particular the debt of banks and businesses, increased from €16 billion to €40 billion in stings for four years. In later years, this debt has become a public debt and today the state of Slovenia is in debt with 80% of GDP due to rehabilitations, several rehabilitations of the banking system. Each year, we pay 1.2 billion interest on government debt for this issue. On the other hand, no one in the banking sector will take responsibility for these actions. I was formerly at the Bank of Slovenia, where I was told that they had issued 18 criminal charges so far. 18 criminal charges for all errors in the banking system. We see a special story in the NLB. The case investigated by R. U.R. should be investigated by a specialised state prosecutor, the KPK, the National Investigation Office or the police. We have authorities for such investigations in this country, but Mr Medja says that the bank has to clean up its own kind, and therefore has not allowed these authorities access to credit cards and has instead hired a private company to perform this task. Mr Medja says that the price we will pay for this is low, given the price we have paid in the crisis, and ensures that this price, therefore, is now another million euros, will ensure that in the future such scandals as we have seen in the banking sector will not occur. The facts are quite opposite, precisely that the state authorities responsible for investigating such matters do not have access to credit cards, that they must not enter the bank and investigate what went wrong there, that the bank has taken the authority to clear itself, internally, this is precisely a sign that the banking system will continue to behave as a state in the country. This is precisely the sign that the banking system will continue to behave as if it is not governed by the laws applicable in that country. It is precisely a sign that their status, similar to that of the Roman Catholic Church, is ready and willing to continue to defend. And that is the risk that we will continue to experience more and more cyclically and more often than we have seen in the last seven years. We will, of course, support the recommendations for this. Of course, we would expect much more from the government to start with such matters being dealt with by the competent authorities in that country and that we stop working so that the banking sector can continue to operate in its own way through all other institutions in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u48	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Let me begin by explaining that Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will support the proposal to propose to the Court of Auditors a review of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank in terms of the management of the bank's poor claims. We also support the proposal for a decision to review the legality and cost-effectiveness of the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank in connection with the conclusion of the contract with R. U.R. In the three or four consecutive recapitalisations of the New Ljubljana Bank, almost EUR 3 billion was invested in it. We have also established a so-called bad bank, to which banks have transferred around €5 billion of bad loans. If we read Banka Slovenije's latest reports from last month, there are still almost €6 billion of bad loans in our banks, mostly in the largest state bank of Nova Ljubljanski Bank. This is more than a quarter of the revenue of the entire state budget. This raises a key issue. How does this ruling coalition, how does the existing authority claim to be responsible for the bank hole? How does the responsible find out? How will those responsible for the bank hole be brought to justice? How many of those responsible for the bank hole are sitting today? Let me remind you, Prosecutor Kozina said at one of the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finances: “I can’t get to the credit cards.” And to remind myself of Minister Klemenčič, who, when the President of the KPK said, should be able to take over the Icelandic model of screening or the Icelandic model of clearing up banking crime within 12 months, so in one year we should solve the problem of who is responsible for the bank hole. And today your Mr Klemenčič is the Minister of Justice for more than 12 months and nothing has happened. Let me continue, in particular with this transfer of bad claims from NLB to DUTB, because it is increasingly based on the conclusion that the New Ljubljana Bank has kept some bad loans, which are known never to be paid, in its balance sheets solely for the reason that it has hidden data on specific debtors and the amount of bad credit to the public. These are increasingly reasonable suspicions, a reason, of course, to be friendly or perhaps other connections. And we expect the Court of Auditors' review to give clear answers to these dilemmas. The operation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is, of course, state-owned, and has, as I have already said, received extensive aid with tax money, must be thoroughly under the scrutiny of the business economy. In particular, it is necessary to verify all expenditure committed by the Bank to external operators. The media resilient rental of R. U.R. for a forensic review of low-credit credit maps for almost a million contract values, of course, opens a number of dilemmas. First of all, why an external contractor is needed, given that Nova Ljubljanska Banka has its own legal service with trained legal professionals who are specialists for banking and are firmly convinced that many experts are able to carry out a rapid and quality review of credit maps and to make proposals both for the submission of criminal applications and for the exercise of the rights of responsibility of responsible persons. With the same or even better quality of work done, costs would be significantly lower. The question is also what procedure has been followed by the choice of a particular undertaking and how the price for the work carried out has been determined. This raises the issue of bank secrecy, which binds the bank firmly even to law enforcement and criminal investigation authorities, but does not protect bank secrecy in a private enterprise. So, in this country, we have a bank that is state-owned and a company that has a contract with the New Ljubljana Bank. And this company, solely because of this contract, has access to credit cards and, on the other hand, the law enforcement authorities have no view of it. It's a banana state. And so when we discover the bank hole, we have New Slovenia and the rest of the opposition, which we want to bring to justice, and it shows a coalition that doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the point and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 17. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate the second item and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Yes, as a proponent, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll say I'm surprised at the views of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Once again, I will read to you the conclusions of the one who would comply with our amendment and the first one that we have accepted on the committee that it will be clear to all those who watch and listen to it what the Members of the coalition are against today. The first decision reads: “The National Assembly shall propose to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the third indent of the second paragraph of Article 20, paragraph 5, and in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, that the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank also be reviewed from the point of view of the management of bad claims.” Firstly, we propose and do not demand. And secondly, we also cite the legal basis that you all attached to it. And against that, dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, you are, and you hope the Court of Auditors has heard that. I mean, that's hard to understand. The amendment, which we have tabled if adopted, would read the second decision as follows: “The National Assembly proposes to the Government that, in accordance with Article 69 of the Law on the Slovenian National Holding Board and the SDH Supervisory Board, procedures for launching a specific audit will be proposed to establish the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of the conclusion of the contract between NLB and R. U. R., d. o. o., the results of the audit should be presented by the Government to the competent working body of the National Assembly.” It proposes to the Government to act in accordance with the law. The government will act, it will do everything, only members of the coalition are against it. That's a fact. I don't know if it hurts to confirm the proposals proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances and opposition Members? Is that so hard? My friend Christmas, if that's political, if that's political, then I don't know, I don't know if 800,000 euros or a million dollars of tax money spent is a political goal. Once again, I would like to say briefly why we in fact requested a call from the Commission first, and then on a proposal from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, also this point at the meeting of the National Assembly. Firstly, because we are convinced that it is right to clarify how Nova Ljubljanska banka spends tax money for what tax money is for. For the first time, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is once again, unfortunately, 100 % of the country's property. In 2008, taxpayers cost 300 million euros. In 2011, €243 million, €320 million in 2012 and €1 billion in 2013. And that's just for recapitalisation. 2.4 billion in six years. Once again without transferring bad claims. Taking this into account, we are approaching EUR 4 billion. Therefore, taxpayers have the right to know where the money from the New Ljubljana Bank is going. The fact is that the need for these recapitalisations is, in my opinion, a financial crisis that not only affects Slovenia, but even Europe, or even wider, if you want. Another reason is bad business decisions. And thirdly, in at least one part, the crimes associated with the act of loans are bad loans. It is not a dilemma, although perhaps someone wants to show that all those responsible for these crimes must be sought and punished. All those responsible must answer. The appeal of today's session is by no means against it, but to a large extent for it. The problem of the contract, which Mr Kos signed for New Ljubljana Bank on behalf of R. U. R., is, in my opinion or our assessment of the way in which this company is selected, the references that this company or the people who are still working in the New Ljubljana Bank under this contract and ultimately also the price paid by Nova Ljubljanska Bank for this contract. What were the criteria for choosing the company? What references had to be followed by people working for Mr Kos's company and searching through maps at our largest bank? And finally, what is the price that taxpayers pay for the work of R. U.R. in Nova Ljubljanska Banka? In 13 months, we paid 874,000 euros for his work, and I think five more retired police officers. 874,000 euros, that's just over 67,000 euros a month. I hope, dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, that this is the amount at least a little bit of a shock to your fingers – 67,000 euros a month. The President of the government has to work for a year to get that kind of money on his account. And the fact is that, despite all the above-mentioned persons who participated there, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has received virtually no reply. How did they choose the company? We know that they first claimed that there was an invitation to tender, and then they changed their minds a little bit, and they said that it was not a public invitation to tender. We wanted to find out who chose, on the basis of which companies were invited to do so, was the answer to silence. Nothing. Nothing on the board, not the President of the Board, not the others present, nor the President of the Supervisory Board wanted to tell us about it. Based on what reference, what references do people working for R. U.R. have, given that they are retired police officers who do not have much experience in forensic financial investigations? The vice-governor has also made it clear that, in order to be able to carry out such a forensic investigation as Mr Kos's companies are supposed to be carrying out, people must have considerable financial experience. Once again, the amount of the contract, we have not identified it, we can only find out how much the company was paid on the basis of the hours paid. And as I have already said, in the 13 months of 874,000 euros, today the figure is probably already higher, that is more than 67,000 euros per month. They're supposed to be doing police work, that's Mr Kos's words, not mine, he said they're doing police work because cops can't do it. Dear colleagues, you can calculate for yourself, and I'll tell you that you could hire more than 50 police officers for this amount. The effect 50 : 5 is probably clear to us. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, I hope that you will still have some sober reflection and that from the words, how all this will be done alone, we must not take a decision in the National Assembly proposing to the Court of Auditors and the Government to take action in this particular case to reconsider and support this. If you support these things being investigated and arranged, then support the conclusion as well, I don't know what the problem is that everything has to be done on its own, but we're not able to say it in the National Assembly. And by voting against you, you take responsibility for the mistakes that are taking place, even or especially for yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to report to the debate. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Introductory. Calling on political responsibility by the proponent, I must admit that I am kind of held back. It is true that it is desirable to discuss everything politically. I would like to start my debate with the next question. Why does the management of NLB hire advisors to review R. U.R.’s claims and, as has been the case in the last days, also with PVC? This question is still on the table, if this same leadership reports the following, literally: "We have a well-organised team of collaborators from various areas who have made a determined effort to study and also to implement the added measures that would contribute to faster downsizing dynamics and higher levels of reduction of bad claims." End of NLB's official communication of 1. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal I'm adding the following to this myself. I am convinced that the NLB has an internal organisational structure in place so that the services of business compliance as well as internal audit. The business compliance service would not be particularly affected, as I believe that, nevertheless, it is already widely known what this business compliance service is supposed to do. But somehow, on the basis of this debate, I have been forced to give more words to the internal audit. Its tasks, in terms of general work, are as follows: the internal auditor undertakes to revise the most risky areas; further, it helps to identify all key risks that may prevent any business process; advises on the establishment of measures and preventive procedures and could also include. What I mentioned in the introduction is the general strategic tasks of each internal auditor. Here I would like to emphasise something – that we do not interfere with the competence of the internal auditor with the powers of the external auditor. In other words, the internal auditor deals with the most risky areas. And if we're in a banking area right now, it's a classic knowledge of things like credit, liquidity, interest rate and the like. The most recent or in this mandate, adopted by the Banking Act, 2 in particular on these matters, speaks in great detail with the title Systemic Risk mitigation agents. This means, if it finds a derogation, it helps to make recommendations on how to address any risk-related derogations. The fact is, if we look at the New Ljubljana Bank today, the law already directly obliges it to have an internal auditor according to the size of the bank itself, most likely organised in a system of independent service. And it is right here to look at what the Banking Act 2 foresees as regards internal audit. 142. Article, in particular, the tasks of the internal audit and here I will stop only on three indents. First indent, monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of internal management arrangements. Sixth indent, verification of bank compliance with regulations, internal acts and measures. And what I believe is also the key to today's debate, the seventh indent, the conduct of specific investigations. I could still touch on the content of the competence of the internal audit, but I will touch on this, if I may say so, somehow the last article of the Banking Act 2, which regulates the internal audit, because I think it is important for us, too, to speak out loud. So, 145. Article 1, first paragraph, states: “If the Internal Audit Service finds that the Bank is in breach of the risk management rules and that the liquidity or capital adequacy of the bank is compromised or that business security is compromised and the guarantee of guaranteed deposits can be activated, it must inform the Administration without delay.” Second paragraph: “If the Internal Audit Service finds that the Bank’s management is in breach of the risk management rules, it shall immediately inform the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board.” And paragraph 3: "If the Administration does not take appropriate measures to remedy the infringements identified in paragraph 1 of this Article and if the Administration and the Supervisory Board fail to take appropriate measures to remedy the infringements identified, the Internal Audit Service shall inform the Bank of Slovenia without delay." If I move on. Even if we are not aware of the competences, the content of the work of the internal NLB audit, it is clear that this service has an exceptional responsibility, mission to both the administration and the supervisory board. And the question is whether the management of NLB and the supervisory board make it possible for the internal audit to work properly and follow its findings. Since I assume that the internal audit in the New Ljubljana Bank is always working smoothly, it means that all the administrations and today's administrations have had an evaluation of the effectiveness of the regulation and functioning of the internal system of the New Ljubljana Bank, and that what hurts us most is the areas of poor claims. In addition to the Bank's administration, it was certainly informed of all of these if I come from such provisions, the Bank's Supervisory Board and the Bank of Slovenia's central regulator. The question arises as to how, or if, at all, the Supervisory Council and the Bank of Slovenia have acted. From so far known events, known mainly from the public, almost nothing under the legal own jurisdiction, when we touch recapitalisation, appears to have started only at the moment the OECD entered. So much for one of the most important responsibilities and mandated services regarding the prudentity of the bank's processes. Nevertheless, I would like to touch further on the situation in the areas of poor claims in the New Ljubljana Bank. The NLB Group has 2.28 billion Euros of bad claims, only the parent bank has 1.4 billion bad claims. This means that there are more than one fifth of the negative claims of all claims in this bank. And perfectly logical is the following. Has this National Assembly been informed at the time of the establishment of the Bank's Claims Management Company that NLB's lending claims are not being transferred to the Balkan countries? If not, why not? And immediately question: Does NLB still have bad claims in its lists? What about the claims made in the title or that could have occurred in any way in foreign branches, Germany, Austria, Italy, the Balkans and elsewhere? Does this company, called R.U.R., deal with these claims? Has the Administration in any way taken a different decision on this subject, in particular that there is no need for bad claims to be resolved by the National Investigation Office if there are substantive matters related to the forensic investigation? Is it logical to follow the questions on the question, and this is why a former KPK member is appointed to lead the business compliance service? The fact is that in the context of this view, it is difficult for a person to understand the milkiness, the invisibility of the Bank of Slovenia’s banking regulator, as if he cares about what is happening in the largest Slovenian bank, where 100 % of the state’s property is. The Bank of Slovenia does not carry out and has not carried out its mission to a sufficient extent in relation to cases related to bad claims. If the information published in the media is held, NLB’s management, as I mentioned above, has hired R. U.R. as well as another consulting firm, for the purpose of reviewing NLB’s claims to small and medium-sized enterprises. The purpose of the review is to determine how it is to be removed from the credit portfolio and transferred to a bad bank. And when you face this information, it's simple to be aware and ask the following questions. The management of NLB makes such decisions, I could say, in a mockery of the banking profession and the owner of the bank. Why? Since Nova Ljubljanska Banka has employees of over 3 000 relatively well-educated and paid employees. Not to mention those who occupy and are supposed to serve as higher responsibilities in a particular job. Apparently, their employees are not able to manage the risks arising from the underlying banking business themselves, and this is lending. This is closely linked to the management of credit liquidity operational and other risks, not to mention the ability of a type of internal organisational unit, which I believe are certainly the largest bank in Slovenia. From what we have just said is understood and there is simply no answer to what is happening in the New Ljubljana Bank with the strategic area of the bank, and that is a risk. I must admit that many in Slovenia were surprised by the cover published in the media in the daily newspaper on 24. 9. reads: »Advisory Society of a former criminalist and former head of the Anti-Corruption Commission is the most paid external consultant on NLB. During the year, 765 000 euros were recovered from the state bank.” If I refer to the question just stated, there is a rightful question. Therefore, in the case of NLB’s business advisory contracts, two key issues are raised for poor claims if I speak on my behalf, whether the external advisors’ review and advice are poor claims in the so-called group requiring the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Ljubljana of EUR 1.55 billion. And whether this includes all those claims of the New Ljubljana Bank which have not yet been written off, also claims arising from branches of the Ljubljana Bank, established companies of the Ljubljana Bank or the New Ljubljana Bank, at home, abroad, including leasing companies. The emphasis on whether only LB is mentioned, and NLB should be aware that, at the time of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, it was also necessary in this area to change the legal status of the organisation, but I am afraid that these claims, if they still exist. The second key question is whether these external claimants are subject to a review of the claims resulting from the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB after 2013. These two questions, I think, at least as far as I'm concerned, are crucial. Why? I'll touch the first one first. If bad claims arising prior to the cut-off date around 2013 are reviewed, it means that after the package transfers of bad claims to the newly established DUTB we were taxpayers, I can say consciously misled by the then President of the Government, the Finance Minister and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Those appointed at the time were presented to the public as the solution to the state's financial situation. What was also prominent in the recapitalisation of state-owned banks. If we take a closer look at the NLB, we can ask ourselves if that's what happened. The information that has been coming and is still coming is that the procedures for assessing claims that have been practically transferred to the DUTB, at least I can say, have been wrapped in the shadow of the secrets of all those actors who have been decision makers and active holders of the implementation of the bad claims themselves. Today there are still rumors that the Republic of Slovenia has merely followed the messages of the European Central Bank and that the then President of the Government and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia have not sufficiently strongly defended the interests of the State. I don't know, I'm just saying it's still there. And what followed is that the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank was tax money, according to its own money from the Republic of Slovenia and not European aid for the rehabilitation of the banking system. In this regard, we can certainly ask the following question today, which must be of great concern to us: What will happen in the next two years until the end of 2017 with the New Ljubljana Bank if it is not sold? What is worrying is that, in principle, the European Central Bank defines the recapitalisation carried out as State aid. And what does that mean? Definitely nothing good for taxpayers. Not to speak in this context yet in the proceedings pending before the European Court of Human Rights concerning subordinated Slovenian investors' bonds to the New Ljubljana Bank. If there are still bad claims in the NLB which, according to some business logic, should already be transferred to the DUTB and in recent times, as we have noted, the media are strongly reporting poor claims against the borrowers of the Balkan countries. Then I can say in this process today that something is wrong. For even this year we have been informed or heard from those responsible that the New Ljubljana Bank has been cleared and that it has all the conditions for safe and stable business. And in this context, I return to the cover of today's meeting of the National Assembly. Does this mean that the management of NLB has decided to pursue a business strategy with regard to poor claims that the bank itself, with its internal organisational structure, no longer intends to engage and therefore leaves this area entirely to external advisers, who must be recognised as an excellent opportunity for good profit and I agree with the excellent business move of the entrepreneur. There is an obvious likelihood that there is still a higher number of bad claims, but at least there is little chance of partial payments, and therefore I think it is essential that this package be completed with the transfer of claims to the DUTB. So much for external advisors to poor claims until DUTB is established. I am coming to the second key issue that I have raised just before, and I will repeat it again because of the debate itself. Is the subject of a bad claim review by external advisors following the establishment of the DUTB and the transfer being made after 2013? This is logically followed by the question: Why is it that, in order to review the situation, hire an external consultant, who himself, this external consultant, is most likely not qualified and by the content of the implementation of the advice himself hires additional external advisers, can I say, with questionable banking professional credibility? In so doing, the reference to work in the process of determining the liability of members of the Hypo Bank administrations does not convince everyone that it is the banking reference required for such demanding banking activities. And if I'm a bit mean, I can say that the NLB may be paying external consultants to learn banking trades called carrying out an analysis of bad claims known for professional banking terms, the conformity of risky business. Let me finish my case slowly. On the basis of what is said in the need to hire consultants of R. U.R., the following dilemmas really arise: Why does NLB hire external advisers if it has such an organisational structure for this internal organisation and also the Banking Act 2 commits solely to the competence of NLB? Another time. What are R.U.R.'s external advisors doing in this case? And if I do a little bit, I'm going to say, do they review each credit folder if all the documents are filed in accordance with the internal act? Have credit approval stages been carried out in accordance with the internal banks? If forensic investigations are carried out, are they even qualified to determine the non-compliance of documents and signatures? Above all, what is interesting is this: Are external advisers looking for ways to take responsibility for bad claims and, as a result, recapitalisation of the bank into the full potential of borrowers? Are they looking for ways to find ways to relieve the responsibility of members of the boards and oversight councils or of the supervisory board for bad claims? Last but not least: Are they carrying out activities that would lead to the conclusion that there are simply no individual documents in the credit maps? We have or I have a number of questions about this. I must continue with some of the issues that are emerging, the question on the question: Why does the management of the New Ljubljana Bank not include a forensic investigation into this by the trained and the law-approved NPU authorities when it comes to the suspicion or indicia of poor claims as previously reported? Interestingly, taxpayers would not be worth anything because of these transactions, rather than paying 100 grand to consultants. Another time. Why is management available to the above-mentioned quality service, internal audits, and we will most likely also mention risk advisors through the supervisory board of the bank? And what I believe is crucial, at least in my personal opinion: Why does the Bank of Slovenia as the main regulator of the banking system not see the system of functioning of the internal audit of the New Ljubljana Bank? What's going on with her? Is she independent and independent in relation to management and the supervisory board, as provided for in Article 145 of the Banking Act, paragraph 3, of the aforementioned Article? All this and most likely anything else is obviously hidden from the public, otherwise I can't conclude. True, all of us taxpayers are interested. Therefore, it is at a place of decision, which I claim is good that almost 75% of the shares in the New Ljubljana Bank must be sold, because – why have a bank if we do not know or do not want to manage it in the way that it is present in all banks that have responsible owners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the proposer, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Verbič, in the end, I was just waiting for you to say clearly and loudly that you will support the two conclusions that are before you. As an opinion of the Group of Members, your colleague said that you would oppose it. You have a number of questions that you have now asked. There are no answers. Then you'll keep your voice down against it. If this is really your business, if this is really your business, then today you will convince your colleagues to support these conclusions and together we will find out what is wrong. And a little replica. The 455th day of the government of Mira Cerar is today, and you still do not know any of your performances — not just you, all in the SMC set — to end what other governments have done wrong. Mr Cerar was given an opportunity from our side to take over the government in February 2013, when the country was on its knees. He didn't hope. He didn't want to. He didn't want to. He didn't hope. He could have done anything he needed to do. Everything. No, he has waited for governments to create, solve difficult problems, turn Slovenia back in the right direction, I will just say, for Slovenia in recent years, record economic growth, measures that have been taken, reduce the number of unemployed, look at the latest data, everything is turning again in a different direction, not to mention the biggest pawnshop of the Mir Cerar Party, this is the rule of law. But here you are in 455 days. And I'm not the one who started pulling things back from the past, because we're here today to agree on whether we're all going to see what's going on with the taxpayer's money at the New Ljubljana Bank, and obviously not the coalition. Don't act like you're interested in 100, 150 or I don't know how many things and open questions, but in the end you're going to vote against it. Tell people – we don't want things to be investigated in the New Ljubljana Bank. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you. I will continue where the previous debate is concluded. It is also the case that SMC colleagues find that internal controls do not work. And this is the problem of Slovenia – there is no control. The point is that we have internal auditors in the bank, we have an internal job, we have an administration that should take care of supervision, and then we have a Bank of Slovenia that should take care of such supervision. Given that this is not the case, we now have some external contractors investigating this bank hole and banking crime. What's the problem? The problem is that there is self - regulation — the one who created the bank hole will also investigate it. Clearly, if this bank hole has occurred, it is his own fault and he will investigate himself in such a way that he will not reveal himself. In recent days, we have a whole bunch of media performances, when we question the work of the police, and there is a state authority that is supposed to be independent, under the supervision of the prosecution, and we do not believe them. But now we believe in some private company that's investigating again as directed by someone. So there's no control. If I go further, what is the legitimacy of the work of such an institution, if we have already wondered about the legitimacy of police work. What's the responsibility, who they're responsible for? Clearly, they're responding to those he paid, so they're doing what they're ordered to do. What is the effectiveness, who measures such efficiency. Will we have any reports of who will be the owner of these reports? Whether the owner of these reports is a bank, an administration or an owner of these reports is us. This is about what I have pointed out before, corporate governance, if the Government is the owner, then it is right to monitor and report to Parliament. What a country this is. Within what legal frameworks these institutions are moving. If I raise just a few problems. What about those loans that were transferred to the DUTB? Who's investigating these loans? Are now being investigated by those who have remained at the New Ljubljana Bank, or those who have been transferred, or are all deleted for those who have been transferred, and whatever has happened has happened, and these are the ones who may have committed the crime. What is happening today – there are indications that similar loans are to be obtained today. And we don't have eyes again. This has been pointed out on two committees of Parliament. That's just some of the problems. Are we afraid of revealing who is afraid of revealing these matters? But if I'm going to go on that political side. You know, the whole problem is in three segments. The first segment is the criminal justice segment, what will be proved here, who will answer and what is the police's contribution, how much the police can do, and the privatisation of the police when we have a private person doing it. The second segment is the financial segment. And here is the role of financial institutions, the first Court of Auditors, which we do not put into business to review business, for the first time, the New Ljubljana Bank, and for the second time the Bank of Slovenia. And if we're talking about banking financial crime, the first person called is the one who can do it, not the police, it's for criminal proceedings, it's for financial institutions and the first Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors wanted, at least by word of mouth, to Banka Slovenije and Nova Ljubljanska Banka, but it does not have the support of the Government. My idea is to try, if there are any obstacles, to expose them, and we will try to overcome these obstacles in Parliament. But take the first step, not the excuse, it won't work. That's the second segment. And then the third segment, the political segment. And that's why we're here today. In its electoral programme, SMC highlighted two points, a bank hole and a TES 6. In coalition coordination, it was surprisingly the result of a technical error under the Coalition Treaty. Under the pressure of the media, it was said that the copy-paste failed and was returned. And now I'm wondering if the government is acting on the principle of pierre and media pressure, or on the basis of professional decisions. Depending on the final decisions – the fence and everything else, I feel increasingly that everything works after the public is impressed, whether it will be good or not, and then we will decide. Now, if I go on, what can we finish? They could conclude that the proposed conclusions are not harmful. Everyone agrees with these ideas, even more so, more problems have been faced by a SMC colleague. I wonder what's harmful here. Harmful for the government. Harmful for the country. We have a political decision to make. If you read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the point of this debate is that we are here today to discuss, then we have half an hour of pause, each group sits down, submits arguments and decides how it will vote. Unfortunately, it was decided a month earlier. Is that democracy? Right now we will hear arguments, we see that everyone is somehow debating in this direction, that there are many mistakes in the New Ljubljana Bank, many open issues and that we should somehow financially review this, which is the purpose of the Court of Auditors. Therefore, I think that you should go after this debate to your parliamentary groups, discuss and decide and vote on your conscience. On what I have heard so far, I believe that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we will support both conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. When we read the government's position and find that the Ministry of Finance will ask the Slovenian State Holding to verify, within its competences, the usefulness of concluding an advisory agreement, it will really open up for me to think about what would have happened even if the Slovenian State Holding Act had been adopted in the form originally intended. It was, however, that all the assets of the Republic of Slovenia would be transferred to the ownership of this company. I'm one of those people who tried not to do that, and I've also labeled it a robbery for centuries. And the change is so much so that the Slovenian state holding company today manages state property, it is not the property of this company, but it manages this property and thus also with the New Ljubljana Bank. And when we talk about these decisions that we have before us, and when we find that also the National Assembly can actually propose to the government that, in accordance with the Slovenian National Holding Act, we propose to the Supervisory Council to initiate audit procedures that will establish the efficiency of the contract between NLB and R. U.R., we are still very far from what would probably be the case as those who are directly responsible for the management of state assets, so Members, since we have been elected, are still very far from everything that could happen to this asset. And I think it is absolutely necessary, however, to allow the Court of Auditors to look into the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank and these poor claims, not least with regard to the conclusion of contracts with R. U.R. and with those amounts, which are clearly defined in these contracts, for EUR 765 000 per year. All I want to remind you is that, of course, the bank has its employees who can do an analysis of these claims, that we have services in the Republic of Slovenia that we are already paying from the budget so that they can do so, either the NPU or the Court of Auditors, the police. And finally, if we look at which frame is going from bank to bad bank, we'll probably figure out that these are exactly the ones that were employed in the banks. So one and the same people, actually. Then why are we spending this money, 765 thousand euros? And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Just recently, the new Ljubljana Bank shut down a business in Metlika, because it was too expensive for the New Ljubljana Bank. She cancelled, for example, an economic department at the Ljubljana Bank in Kočev. She shut down a lot of ATMs in remote places. And finally, a lot of people fired. On the other hand, it has concluded a contract of EUR 765 000 with a private company. I think it is true and necessary that these decisions and recommendations submitted to the National Assembly be supported and that we actually allow the Court of Auditors to review this operation and actually move from at least the stage that the Ministry of Finance does not ask the Slovenian State Holding to do so, but to at least propose to it, as stated in the decision, that it does. Here I also point to the complexity of the recruitment, many of whom have been in the banking system at a time of poor claims today are in the management bodies of the Slovenian State Holding. And there is also another additional reason for this report to come to the National Assembly, as required by the decision, and then we are trying to take another step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up again. Mr Tilen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I'd rather go to what I'm doing better. So it's not a fact. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, I'll be quick. It was said here that everything happens on its own and so forth. Then it was said that I don't even know what we're hiding, what we're afraid of. Okay, let's get to the facts. Report 1. 1. 2013 to 30. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of 211 only crimes when the injured bank was approximately 740 million damage. 104 suspects of crime, currently under consideration, 368 million approximately damages. 107 investigations have already been completed, of which 79 complaints have been filed, in 28 cases clarifications have been made, of which 79 are estimated to be damages of EUR 235 million. The most common was the abuse of position or trust in economic activities. Police findings are that they have sufficient professional staff, they perform these tasks by the NPU and also by the police at regional level. But there are also other crimes that I have said before. The applicants, in 128 cases, were banks against 181 people. The rest was detected by the police themselves. As for work in 2015, it slowly began to pass on to the prosecution because the police were doing their job, and it began to move on. To this end, they received 30 additional prosecutors and 4 million additional euros for training. If it's done or not done, judge for yourself, but it's done. And that's what the competent authorities do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u62	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! I will now proceed here, where my colleague Christmas has ended. It's working, it's working, but it's doing terrible things. The last report, which we could read about bad credits in banks, is again at a summit in Europe. New Credit Bank Maribor about 37% of bad loans, and of all, Nova Ljubljanska Banka about 26%. We're on top of Europe. Cyprus is still ahead of us. Twice in the history of Slovenia, we have already saved the banking system by taxpayers, lastly in 2013 with 5 billion. And then you said, look, now we've blown these banks up, and the banks are gonna start working. We are reading the last report, but it is about again for a few billion bad loans. We are meeting with Banka Slovenije, who proposes that we set up another bad bank. Let this bad bank be private for small things and everything. That means it's never over. And look, respectable coalition, I really don't understand you not to support these recommendations in order for the Court of Auditors to review the operation, the usefulness of the New Ljubljana Bank. Finally, the Court of Auditors also has closed doors to the regulator, Banka Slovenije. Why? Look, I'm an advocate of independent agencies, independent organizations, but that doesn't mean that an independent agency or an independent organization can't have control. He's got to be in control. Because it will only then show whether this agency is truly independent or not. And he thinks that this is sad, you excuse and closed door to the Court of Auditors, both for entry into the Bank of Slovenia and for entry into the New Ljubljana Bank. See the Statute of the European Central Bank, where it clearly states in what way and who is exercising external control. The European Court of Auditors enters the European Central Bank once a year to review risk management or something like that, and here we have an annual report. And with us, the coalition has decided to close the matter. I don't know what you're afraid of or what you want to hide from the public and the opposition. And no doubt all your last acts prove it. Last but not least, one point earlier we considered the Law on the Strengthening and Stability of the Banking System, which speaks of a bad bank, DUTB, and there you are, I would say, very sovereignly rejected the opposition's proposal so that only two committee presidents from Parliament could attend the meetings of the Management Board. You refused. And you refuse to do the same now, rejecting the recommendation that the Court of Auditors do something. Dear Members and Members of the Coalition, in the National Assembly we also have an investigative commission to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system. This Commission was set up on the proposal of all parliamentary parties. Each parliamentary group has its own representative and a member, and I am personally of the opinion that those members of this investigative commission, who will not support these recommendations today, I think it is hygienic of you to offer your resignation from this commission another minute. Because then it'll actually be visible from the plane that you're trying to shut something down, hide it from the public. I also do not understand here the government, the Ministry of Finance, there are always one and the same excuses, so when appointing the director of the Clinical Centre – we have nothing to do with this, the government raises its hands; we have nothing with the New Ljubljana Bank; we have nothing with the Slovenian State Holding Company. But who was scrambling all these people? The coalition and the government of Mir Cerar. And then you say, we have nothing. If nothing, you're responsible for all the personnel you've made. And, look, the banking system is definitely a cancer wound in Slovenia. So much taxpayer money that we've already thrown into this banking system, but things haven't changed. Every report we receive from Europe proves that Slovenian banks are in poor condition. And who's responsible for that? Management is responsible and the regulator is responsible and those who set up or staffed these managements. And they were getting rid of two private banks, again at the expense of the taxpayer's money, now you've turned the plates again, these banks aren't going to be liquidated, but you're going to switch them to DUTB, at least that's what the media is saying. For what? To preserve certain levers again. And I think the customer of the Modern Center in particular needs to look in the mirror. What you said before the elections, what you say in the sessions – you vote differently. I think today what we can read, if this information is true, I think this could be a bad first-April joke that the Secretary of State, a member of SMC, was stealing in one of the trading chains. And he's not in the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Interior, and they get him in the chain of commerce. I mean, look, a bad first-April joke. The year is coming to an end. I don't think you have anything to show for the modern center. If I were you, I'd seriously consider making some sort of coalition summit and thinking about stepping down, because that's not how it works anymore. And other recommendations that might be positive, you reject. I want to know who gives you these instructions and what you're afraid of in here. You're full of media. I am sure that no President of the Government or President of the Government has ever been in a position as bad as that of Dr. Miro Cerar and this coalition. Everyone turned on you, except independent media. You have the entire professional public on the opposite side. You have a police strike, you have a health riot, you have a dissatisfaction with people. And then another such soft recommendations made by the opposition are rejected. And certainly all of this indicates that you have decided a completely different path that you promised before the elections and after you have taken this leadership of this government. I don't care if these things happen in the addresses where the Party has the seat of a modern centre or where the addresses of the SMC municipal committees are located, but this would happen with your budget and your money, but here is the game of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the money of Slovenian taxpayers, and I think that sooner or later the time will come when you will probably also have to take responsibility for all your actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. Let me begin my performance today on this important subject with one simple call to reason not by anyone, but with one simple call to reason by a party that occupies 40% of this Parliament. See the role of 40% of those who voted or 36% of those who voted and today listen to SMC representatives when one says that there are so many questions that there are not enough answers and the other that the facts testify that things are going in the right direction. The National Assembly simply cannot afford such confusing messages by the far most powerful party in the National Assembly in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that one of the previous debaters, colleague Dobovšek, has very well called on the biggest government party to sit down after today's debate, to consider and overcome the call for understanding. Rather than administratively rejecting everything they prepare for you in government rooms, you find out what is right and what is wrong with your own thinking. That's why you were elected. Mr Verbič had a very broad and high-quality debate earlier, he said that he was in NLB, that is, our largest state bank, more than one fifth of all bad credits and wondered: If there are still hidden bad claims and if this company, which we are talking about today, is also dealing with bad claims abroad, if all the services and services are business compliance if the one who is the principle of this service is suitable for this place, and whether the internal audit is independent of management and whether the banking regulator has done everything he could. The questions themselves. The questions themselves. Among other things, he made a very bold statement, warning the bank regulator to be inconspicuous, as if he didn't care. The Bank of Slovenia has not carried out or carried out its mission, supervision of the banking system. The honourable Member and respected members of the SMC or Members, you wrote in the coalition contract that the identification of the reasons and the culprits for the biggest bank robbery, for the bank hole, from the DUTB went straight to the Bank of Slovenia, so recently, the previous point was, completely divorced by UKSB. Completely changed the purpose of this law, took the powers, made it for some new state holding company. Your Member says that the Bank of Slovenia does not carry out and has not carried out its mission. So you have doubts about the operation of Banka Slovenije, but at the same time you want Banka Slovenije to investigate the causes of the bank hole from now on instead of DUTB. Are you listening? I am asking myself as a citizen who wants to know where the 5 billion euro has gone. Are you listening to what you're saying? Do you wonder what impression you give to your constituents, taxpayers? See, all these questions previously raised were the answer that SMC would vote against having the Court of Auditors audit the bank, the New Ljubljana Bank. Once again, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is the only bank in addition to two, from which the parliamentary commission of inquiry cannot obtain data. Why? As an infamous judge, investigative judge Desha Cener has taken the view that we are not entitled to this and that the Law on Parliamentary Investigation has been unconstitutional for the first time in more than 20 years. It blocks the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry at the New Ljubljana Bank. On the bank, which, according to counterpart Verbič, represents more than one fifth of the bad claims. A smart man, when he hits a wall, doesn't bump his head into a wall, but he finds a path that may be open somewhere. Perhaps the Court of Auditors is one of these routes that will protect the head from falling into the wall and find the main culprits for the formation of a bank hole. But no, you vote no. And speaking of which, the investigative commission can't get the data. You know what the Minister of Justice says to my question, how does he assess that the court in Ljubljana does not order the seizure of documentation on the same application of the court and in Celje, it does. His answer here for this table, Justice Minister Klemenčič, a great fighter against corruption, says: How do you know that the right decision was made by the court in Celje and Maribor? With such messages comes the largest political group in the country in front of taxpayers at a five billion-dollar bank hole. Look, the story would be funny if you weren't very sad. Once again we had another Friday, probably Fridays are reserved for less public attention, we had a debate on appointment at the head of SDH. The Coalition appointed the Supervisory Council so that no one would hold me to my tongue, to misinterpret myself, and then control the world at the extreme night session of the new leadership of SDH. The SDH was headed by a man who was the chairman of the credit committee in this – again, again, amazing – New Ljubljana Bank, when a 2 billion-euro weakening took place at the head of SDH during its period. A man who would probably not have been granted permission by Banka Slovenije to join the administration of Nova Ljubljanska Banka today leads as the first person of the State Holding Bank New Ljubljana Bank, Banka Celje, Factor Banka, Probanka and so on, and even the state economy. Because you knew that you would not come into the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, but you gave it another place higher. It's you. What? New moral-ethical standards? And when we warn, then within this bank, which is supervised by someone who has helped with this bank hole, let us then run into R. U.R., led by Draga Kos, against whom he is again, you will not believe, yet another official of this government, Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, filed a criminal complaint against Draga Kos and others in 2013 because he was supposed to violate the laws in the opinion of Mr Staret, there was no legal basis for failing to make any contracts at the time that he was headed by the PKK, where he imposed on his state officials that although he had been warned that it was illegal, they made a decision. And you don't think that's necessary if such a person is looking at a bank hole to order me a review committee in the National Assembly, which is independent of the review. I don't understand how you can even justify such an attitude in front of the public. The operation of SMC reminds me of that old joke when three candidates go before the employment committee where the director asks each candidate. The first one asks what two times three is, says three. He asks the other what two times three is, says six. Then there's the third one, two in three, and he says eleven. He sends everyone out and then he turns to his buddy and says, "You know who I'm gonna pick." And his associate, the other one. He says, no, no, no, the third. And the first co-worker asked him, yes, why? Yeah, because he's my wife's brother. We're offering you real deals here, six, two times three is six. But you choose eleven because it is either someone who ordered you – NLB does not – or because you obviously do not know what your mandate is and what your task is and what your commitments are in the coalition contract. Comrade Dobovšek has already pointed out, let me tell you again, read your coalition contract, the discovery of the culprit for the bank hole. You will find them in the NLB for one-fifth of the bad claims and bad decisions. Therefore, once again with the call, I believe that there is so much sense in this Chamber that, despite the fact that you initially spoke categorically, you will not, once you have settled again, find that this is the only way, the only way to start moving forward in the event of a bank hole and that sooner or later one of the culprits will answer for this bank hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Interesting debates. Under some it is also possible to sign, of course, if one part were to withdraw from the debate. In life, it's nice to have a line or a path that's kind of stuck. It is very good that when a person has the power to solve certain stories or problems, and not when he has no power, he is full of ideas and can fix everything, what he did not then when he could do. I'm reflecting on my friend, former Prime Minister. You know, when we talked about when the state poured money into these banks, 5 billion taxpayers' money was needed to replace the supervisory councils and administrations of these banks. That's when we were overheard. And this was repeated from the session, where we were just talking because we had concerns. But I take responsibility, we were part of the coalition, and we failed with our proposal. And that's why I'm sad because now we're fighting here and we're smart for one million euros that one piece got -- that I don't know whether it works well or not, and the board has to answer for it, and the control world -- when billions passed by, nothing. Who picked up except for Lach and me four days ago for Trimo Trebnje? Who's been in this country? Since you are or are, politics must not interfere with the economy and so on. That's not true. We are owners, we defend owners in this room or in this hall. I think that NLB did not have to sell this moment Trim Trebnje despite the fact that some are now satisfied because it is not that customer, as some have put it, did not have to, because workers with this new administration of Trimo would lead to such a situation that this Trimo could be sold in five years at a substantial better price, but now we will be afraid in this peace valley whether the workers will still be there or not. But when a social democrat says that, of course, he's a communist. Let's not talk about the Lazko Brewery. Where everyone connects me and so on. After 6%, Lashko Pivovarna paid interest on NLB. Today, a smooth Dutch man came in, gave money. NLB will not be able to sell money anymore because NLB is made or banks are made, the bank will not be able to sell to a top Slovenian company, which we sold for bankers and, of course, for tycoons. And that's why sometimes it hurts because we can't say anything because we're politicians, we don't know anything, and everyone else knows everything. Except when we're in the opposition, we can do anything. Now there's something else about these conclusions. Excuse me. Benign conclusions. Benigni's joint. I can back him up, and I'll back him up, and there's no problem, I'll back him up, but it's a stunt, it's a benign conclusion that you can perform here and get upset. It's a benign conclusion. We're proposing to the Court of Auditors. Yeah, what about the Court of Auditors? In six months, we'll ask him if you checked with the NLB, and they'll say, no, we didn't. Look, yeah, no, it's still up to them or they will or won't. She's still on SDH or they will or won't. That's not true. Here says Pojbič, you have to grab the bull by the horns Slowly some people will have to be replaced. [[…]] Pika. But not to accept the benign conclusions, I will support the donkeys, there is no problem that I will like this moment on TV, but in some ways people need to be told that when we do not fit, we do not deal with the economy when we like it, we would deal with the economy. We are representatives of taxpayers, Slovenes and Slovenians, and it is right that the owner begins to work and manage his property responsibly. I'm not buying any more and I'm not buying any more that all these powerful economists are the smartest in this country. These strong economists and strong managers have brought this country with the help of politics, left and right, to this situation where it is today. If you can survive Christmas holidays more easily, I will support this proposal without a problem, even though I said in my position earlier that I have great concerns, we will support it. But I'll ask in three months. We're proposing, we're just proposing and hiding behind some kind of legislation. I had to say this, I'm sorry, Vice President, if I was a little more personal, but I'm having a hard time listening to systems that when you're strong, you don't do anything when you're powerless, but you're the most oblivious. You know, like Logar said, I'm gonna tell the joke, you know, the cow that gives a lot of milk, and then the bucket kicks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. She asked the Magi's proposer for her word. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you. The fact is that we are now spreading the debate from one disputed treaty, perhaps it is also right back. And the bank hole – we know when it was made. Mr Han, this director, who is now the director, was not in the New Ljubljana Bank at the time, but was the director of the New Ljubljana Bank, who was sent by the coalition to the Slovenian State Holding. And that was when the bank hole started. Mr Medja was appointed to the New Ljubljana Bank in 2012, and some bad loan may have been made at that time, but a large majority of them were created earlier. And it is the same with the Supervisory Board, I think that the Supervisory Board was appointed in 2013, so to say that nothing has changed is entirely correct. The conclusions and proposals shall be such when they are in conformity with the legislation. We or me are always told that the National Assembly cannot ask that it can only propose. Therefore, the conclusions are as they are. If we can ask, let us have the Legal and Legislative Service speak, and we will have the Members of my Group table an amendment to ask the Government and the Court of Auditors to do so. So I believe that Mr Han, as a long-standing Member, must know this without the conclusions being benign. We propose and let these things do, if not, but we can ask them for responsibility, both by the Court of Auditors and by the government, if they do not. However, if we can request, and please let someone answer me, we will table an amendment where we will require both institutions to accept and do what we now propose and report on the results. That's all we, as the legislative body at this point, can do. Who, Mr Vice-President, will answer me, I don't know, will probably be able to provide me with an answer from the Legal and Legislative Service. If possible, I am first-signed, dear Matjaž, under the fact that we require both of these institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Is it still a wish after the debate? Please sign in. He has a word, Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u70	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. I think the topic we opened today is extremely interesting. It's extremely interesting from several perspectives. The first aspect is what is the basis of one rule of law, whether the institutions of the rule of law operate. We can say summa summarum of all the institutions of the rule of law, if they work, can form a legal state. We can see that in such an important action as the finding that state-owned banks had to recapitalise with EUR 5 billion that this could, we can say, be an alarm. This should be an alarm for Slovenia, and especially for citizens and citizens, that at the expense of all of this the tribes will live worse and have, we can say, poorer prosperity for themselves. Now, what is important to stress, which hangs somehow from today's debate, is this carelessness of coalition members to make sure that they don't care enough to review, that forensic investigations are being carried out by one company, one company that has not actually worked these forensic investigations so far, because it has no experience that even has no expertise in its membership of experts who would be specialists in certain areas of forensic investigation in the banking system. I can't help but point out that I'm disgusted. I am appalled when I somehow examined, for the first time, who came to the bank two years ago – Rock Praprotnik, who was paid as some specialist of these risks. A diplomad journalist who was famous for being a member of the so-called KPK commission in each of his second articles against SDS and Janez Janša. And then KPK, as we know, as one of the institutions that should also deal with and issue a report on the bank hole in particular in the largest bank, has therefore done nothing in NLB and therefore Mr Praprotnik is leaving for NLB to pay more than the President of the country. I mean, this is the first alarming state that Slovenia has done on this. Nothing. Now we're coming to phase two. He signs a contract without a public invitation to tender with one of the companies where they make up a team, we can say, criminalists and forensic technicians. I've looked at who these people are. Let's get started. Franci Oder, first, was never a specialist in economic crime or financial crime, never had any license to investigate. In his career, he was best known for persecuting Mr. Frank Kangler. Second, Roman Prah, assistant commander of the police station. He was best known for the Vič-Holmec affair, never worked in the field or was a total specialist in economic law, financial law and so on and for forensic investigations. Next. Love Volmut, criminalist in Cyprus. He's never reviewed economic and financial crime, he's basically just a forensic technician, and he's dealing with clues to some of the cases. Lucky Smodish, retired chief of police, Copper. The last one I haven't heard a good word about, Zvonko Roksandić, a woman is somewhere employed by free unions, has never managed, and now, as a pensioner, he's a specialist in forensic audits and investigations, he's never done that. The contract also mentioned that they would provide detective services. None of these guys have detective licenses on my information. Continuation. I am interested in whether these people have special knowledge of risk management, whether they are analysts, whether they have licences for tested auditors, internal auditors, or whether they are specialists as judicial evaluators. We also have problems with poor claims due to the fact that we have also found that judicial valuations for the insurance of these loans have been frustrated to impossible data. And so on. Look, dear colleagues, I have also looked at the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, what are the hourly items of those people who have licenses that have long experience and licenses. And now, look, the price of an auditor's hour for someone who has a university education, who has an auditor's license – for an auditor's license, it takes about 12 exams, which means that it's something like a science master's degree, at this level, plus a long experience, it's 70 euros an hour. For example, the head of the group of these auditors may have a clock item of up to 104 euros, and these data are available at the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, a leader, a specialist in the field of audit, i.e. those with long-term experience with hundreds of completed audits may have up to 120 euros per hour. So these retired criminals with Mr Drag Kos have positions of approximately 218, I think up to 240 euros an hour. So if we convert the price, I think 870,000 euros have been paid so far to be exact. So, dear colleagues, what you don't understand here is of interest to me. What don't you understand?Oh, my God! Why do we have the institutions of the country, why people are paid there and what does a private enterprise have to do with retired criminals, not to say, most of them have the clientele of Desus, some are members of the Union of Fighters and so on, not to mention their political pedigree and marking. Zvonko Roksandić, his specialty or his hobby was the persecution of Mr Janez Janša and the search for reasons where he could be put in jail. Now I wonder what you don't understand here, respectable coalition colleagues. Why don't you support it? I ask you one more time – what is it you don't understand? This is a matter, my fellow Members, and this is a matter that will be reflected. And if we don't run around here, if you don't understand that this is a prosecution case, then I don't know. The largest bank – we have run out of 5 billion and we are letting people in who have no licenses that have no knowledge in this area, which have a specific political pedigree. Where's he going? It's about selectivity, it's about selectivity, those that are ours, let's protect those that aren't ours, and let's put some of these into prosecution, so we can sort of wrap this up and strangle it. That's the story, because we know these stories. Part two, not just selectivity, but part two, is this story, what our institutions are doing, what the KPC was doing, and what the Court of Auditors is doing right now. And I myself, honourable proponents, suggest that if they want to join the coalition, I, too, am of the opinion that we can also give the word "demand". Now we've had a "proposal" if you agree, if this is legally permissible, let's put in a word link to demand. and as one of the taxpayers on behalf of taxpayers, I demand from the 5 billion-dollar hole, ladies and gentlemen, that a private company with some retired criminals without any knowledge, without any licenses, will not go through the maps of a bank owned by the state. It's over. I don't know what else we have to talk about. Doesn't it make sense, doesn't it make sense, fellow classmates? I hope you wake up and we change. And I agree with Mr. Han, I demand. Not only do we propose, but we demand! Once again, we demand! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! On the one hand, I am glad that the position in at least one of the coalition parties changes slightly. As I understand from my colleague Vebra, he is supposed to support these conclusions, I see that Mr Han is also thinking in the direction of supporting these conclusions. Otherwise, he's talking about benign conclusions. Dear colleague Matjaž Han, you have a longer internship in the National Assembly and I think it is perfectly clear what framework the Rules of Procedure give us. I can help the legal service or any service here that one committee has already adopted its conclusions in this mandate, and I am speaking where the committee said it required. This also means that the reference to parliamentary practice that this has not happened so far is no longer sustainable because it has already happened. And that's why I'm happy. Even to confirm my words that we are a tiger without teeth, that the National Assembly is a tiger without teeth. That is what I said in the position of the Group of Members. Which is the same as the benign conclusions we're proposing here. As a result, people have a similar or different view of the National Assembly. Probably worse than better, especially when we are inefficient about our conclusions. I propose to amend the decision or follow the proposal, which has already been given to require that a period of time should be allowed to do so. And there's no problem with that. I would like to point out once again that the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has once proposed a review of the New Ljubljana Bank's prudence. I signed this letter 18 years ago. 12. 2014, exactly one year ago. And nothing happened. Except that I have heard representatives of the Court of Auditors, but how this is not possible in some way and how this is not possible and that they are preparing and so on. I very much welcome this initiative that the conclusions of the National Assembly will be different, more binding. Since, after all, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is 100% owned and if you mention the sale of Trim and how nothing moves, and Nova Ljubljanska Banka sold Trimo. See, this review of merit will also explain Trim's sales. Then I really don't see any reason why I wouldn't be interested here in being asked to, a slightly more binding word is 'calling', and that is actually done. And not only that, I think that what the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has already asked for more than once, but it seems that the Commission for Public Finance Supervision is also a toothless tiger, and even if it asks and even asks the Court of Auditors to examine the Bank of Slovenia, that is not the case. Otherwise verbally a few representatives of the Court of Auditors, I will say, are somehow making progress in ensuring that this will happen, that something is prepared and so on, but that action does not happen. And the matter is perfectly simple. I think that already Article 25 of the Law on the Court of Auditors gives the Court the opportunity to examine the Bank of Slovenia. Reference to the European Central Bank and reference to all these matters, to a government opinion in this case, is not necessary. The Court of Auditors is independent in this respect and also in terms of its relationship with the European Central Bank. The Court of Auditors is a constitutional category. The role of the Court of Auditors is defined in the Constitution and also the responsibility of the Court of Auditors is defined in the Constitution. I will be very pleased if you confirm the decision on the requirements to give a certain deadline and so on, that the National Assembly will be given the role it is supposed to play. If anyone thinks that this is not an independent institution, he must always ask himself something else in this independence, to the government, to the state. When these so-called independent institutions come in handy when something is asked of them, when proposals are made and so on, they are independent. But are they really independent of those who may not make such proposals publicly? But to those who, as someone said today, I think Comrade Logar, say if you do, but NLB doesn't. And it's a closed matter. And then these independent institutions, I'm talking now for example, they're talking about whether independence is political, but the question is whether or not others have an impact on what will be reviewed or whether they want to influence what will be reviewed and what will not be reviewed. I hope that the National Assembly and the professional services and legal services in the National Assembly will also find a solution in order to be able to adopt decisions that will be much more binding, which will also be time-bound, and which will actually result in what happened to the bad claims, including the transfer of bad claims and the value of this transfer to the DUTB. In particular because there is still a question here, including the issue of evaluation carried out by three advisory companies in 2013, for which an account of €21-22 million has also been issued to Banka Slovenije. An account was also issued for these services. And that is probably the question, this information is public, the usefulness of all of this, if we have paid EUR 5 billion on the basis of this valuation, which has cost more than €21 million, by taxpayers. It's probably all clear here. I call, appeal, I can no longer do, I propose to the largest coalition party to consider its views on this issue. And even when he says he's a moral client, etc. I respect that she's a moral party, that she had to be very tall. I'm just afraid they're thinking about double morals here. One is the one we are talking about, and this is also what Mr Verbic was talking about, how many problems we have in the banking system, and the other is in decisions that are contrary to what is actually said and interpreted. I'm sorry. If things were to go the same way, it would be quite different, and they would probably come a lot further. Thus, for one time, we may be able to postpone this decision to the third hour, likely to see what decisions will be made. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support all these proposals and also proposals if the request from the relevant institutions is to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Jerney Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u74	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The discussion about the rehabilitation of our banking system, the bank hole is never a bad parish, we could say, because what a taxpayer's contribution to Slovenian banks was, we should also treat those who are most responsible differently in such discussions. Mr Verbič himself encouraged me to discuss the issue, which, in his almost forty-five minute speech, acknowledged to a certain extent all the problems of the Slovenian banking system or gave some awareness by Mir Cerar to these problems. Many speakers have said that the National Assembly is a toothless tiger. Not just the National Choir. In identifying the culprits for the resulting bank hole, the toothless tigers are also our investigative authorities, criminals, if you will, the prosecution. The National Assembly is not the only toothless tiger. It is a whole system when, if you want, the official authority, whether legislative or judicial, or executive, does not have an instrument to bring those responsible for the situation, the bank hole, under the purview of justice. First of all, I'd like to mention obsolescence. Janko Medja, President of the NLB administration, said at one of the previous meetings of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision that there were quite a few cases just before the expiry in 2013. Just before we got old. Ladies and gentlemen, it was in the interest of someone that the dishonesty, the granting of unsecured loans was outdated. And once again, it's not even about the government under which the time period these unsecured loans were issued. But the point is that we must do something today, as long as it is time, not because of ourselves or political populism, but because of taxpayers, because their money is in the form of €5 billion. We've done nothing so far. And when Mr Verbič spoke very well, he was really familiar with the awareness, the identification of the bank hole, the question is coming to me. You have won with the rule of law, how many measures, just ask yourself, the ruling coalition has made in a year and three months to bring the responsibility for the resulting bank hole to justice. How many legislative changes have been made in this direction? How much support might the opposition have gone in this direction? Will this proposal also go in this direction, as proposed by a group of unrelated Members? We're gonna back this up. Can we make it? We already see problems, but the key is how determined we are, how decisive the ruling policy is. Scissors and canvass are yours, dear coalition! In doing so, let me mention once again Mr Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. I wonder where those promises are after the Icelandic model's bank hole investigation. Unfortunately, these promises have not been fulfilled. The forecasts were within 12 months, and in one year we'll be searching the bank hole. That's what Minister Klemenčič used to say before he was Minister. The whole story is about what's most important. This is that all of this today would not have happened if the state-owned bank had been sold in time. One big appeal must be that banks are also being sold through sales procedures. When we sell banks, then there will be no problem as to how much taxpayers will contribute to the resolution of the banking system. Because believe it, our citizens have a suitcase full of NLB every five years. Let's sell it and see how it gets in the square. See, no foreign bank in Slovenia – have we recapitalised it? We didn't. As for this contract with R. U.R. Look, you'll say there's no problem if the bank hires a company that helps them. The results are essential. I agree. But this contract is about one big specific because it's a specific person who's already been in one of the other things in a visible, clear position, if you want. But the results are crucial. Even if you say a million euros. Look, if we bring in a billion euros, which I think should be the goal, it's not a problem of a million euros if it's paid to that person. There's another problem. The problem is that, on the one hand, we have an opportunity, a legislative possibility for a bank owned by the State to enter into a contract with a company that chooses or chooses its own management, which can be X, Y. But they cannot investigate credit maps of criminals, law enforcement authorities. Because of this, the ruling coalition, you have all the power to start changing legislation, because banking secrecy is an obvious cover. Enable investigators, law enforcement authorities to open credit folders. Because the prosecutor comes to the National Assembly every so long and says, "We're not allowed to review credit maps." And the National Assembly, the Logar Commission, is also disabled. But this can all be done by R. U. R. Banana State. As a result of this appeal to the ruling coalition, which has a majority, legislative changes should go this way. Bank secrecy I understand, okay. But not at the expense of my own money, the taxpayers' money, which every now and then we have to fix this bank hole in the NLB. That's why it's nothing but a cover. With regard to valuation, transfers and what has been transferred from NLB to DUTB, these rumours are increasingly likely, as it appears, that precisely certain bad claims have been allowed to be transferred and remain safe from so-called bank secrecy to NLB. But as easy as it can be, it's moved. Of course, it was a friendly decision or a different relationship. Let me sum it up. As also in the National Assembly, the difference is that we reach the final goal of bringing back unsecured claims, unsecured loans as much as possible, if necessary from tax havens, but there is a need for steps, a respected coalition. I encourage you to do so. 36 Members of the SMC plus others, I think they could be more susceptible to bringing at least one part of what the taxpayers have saved back to the country. I hope to say that certain amounts are inflatable, certain values have gone with the shares and certain amounts are also in the tax havens. And that's how it is. You are in power, and you must also take this part of your responsibility. But it also starts by amending legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u76	Just one. It's been a while since we've stopped fooling people, because I've misunderstood you. That we stop deceiving people, that when we sell the banks, we won't have to take the taxpayer's money to the banks anymore. This thesis is purely a lie and manipulation because you know well that the state guarantees up to 100,000 euros in deposits. There were private banks abroad, in America and everywhere, and the state could recapitalise them: Hypo, Adria Banka in Celovac was a private bank and was also recapitalised by the Austrian state. So when we sell, and then we don't have to recapitalize again, it's not true. Only when we have bad administrations and when we have a bad supervisor, in this case Banka Slovenije, will these banks always have to be recapitalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragonja, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the issue of advisory contracts, we have presented some of the principal positions of the Government and the Ministry of Finance in the opening act. I would like to stress in particular that the Government does not wash its hands on this issue, we are aware of the importance of economic behaviour, the responsibility of both the administrations, the supervisory councils and the Slovenian State Holding. I would like to provide just a few more information on how this communication has been carried out so far between the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Slovenian State Holding. The government commissioned SDH to carry out a review, a detailed presentation of the entire selection and cooperation process with R. U.R., in which we wanted the following clarifications: the reasons for conducting investigations into past losses, crucially with the main benefits, and the activities that could be achieved on the basis of these investigations, the procedure in which they requested the testing of suppliers, the evaluation of these offers, the supervision of the management of the work of the provider and the alternative possibilities for carrying out such investigations of the liability of bad investments in the bank. On the basis of this request or request, SDH commissioned the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank to carry out these checks. The Supervisory Board has informed the SDH Administration that it has carried out these checks and that, on the basis of that assessment, it considers that there has been no irregularity, dishonesty or serious infringements of the law or statute. SDH reported this to the Ministry of Finance. Since this assessment did not give an assessment of the usefulness and economic viability of the concluded contract, the Ministry requested a supplement in this part, which is in fact also an essential part of the initiative that was presented by the proposer. The government cannot directly run the bank through a catalogue of commitments signed by the Republic of Slovenia in the state aid approval process. But he can use the instruments that I presented in the opening presentation. If we do not get satisfactory answers on the usefulness and economic viability of this disputed contract and avoid further doubts as to the content of the work done, the Government will take advantage of the possibilities offered by Article 69 of the Slovenian State Holding Act and Article 305 of the Economic Companies Act. This will, indeed, benefit from the possibility of an extraordinary revision under these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u80	Your Honor! President, thank you for your word. Just for a little while, what colleague Han said. Look at the case, Commerzbank from Germany, private bank, the state helped with several billion. But this same bank returned all the money plus interest within one year, so don't fool around. But at the end of the day, I'd just take the last 10 seconds. They are all happy and, above all, peaceful Christmas holidays. On Sunday, we will vote against the referendum as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. On behalf of the entire congregation, I return a card or a nice wish. I understand that there is no longer a desire for debate and I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. I also adjourn the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u82	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 8(1). I guess I have to say it again. You didn't listen. So, item 4 of the agenda, thirdly, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 8(1). We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 8(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under point 3. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD groups to Article 8(2) was adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under point 3 became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the issue of advisory contracts in Nova Ljubljanski banka, d.d. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled, of 17. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to point 2. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 34. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, my respectable colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, that you didn't realize that that amendment was prepared in accordance with the recommendations of your government, your government. So, okay, you can still fix the mistake, and we accept the recommendations as they were basically. But I think it will really be necessary for the Slovenian public to show who is up to certain things being investigated and who is not. 50 police officers could be employed for the money received by Mr Kos's company. 50 cops a month, 67,000 euros. You don't even find what the cops want to save. So much for making certain matters clear in this national assembly. By pressing the button, you'll show it. Words really aren't enough, ladies and gentlemen. And of course we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u84	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you, President. See, the question of today's vote on this point is common sense and also the sound reasonableness of Members in this Chamber. As President of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, I will once again tell you what is already commonly known. Due to the decision of District Investigative Judge Deše Cener, the Commission of Inquiry cannot reach the documents of the New Ljubljana Bank, which means that the documents and bad credits stored in this largest state bank are safe from the third eyes or from the eyes of those who have no direct connection to credit maps. And if at this point the parliamentary commission is unable to access this data, the only normal possibility is to review another independent institution in this regard, this is the Court of Auditors. Therefore, it is sound in mind, also in accordance with the coalition contract, that the National Assembly invites the Court of Auditors to exercise this supervision over the New Ljubljana Bank. Last but not least, the taxpayers will be grateful. I see quite a few brooches between us. Take into account for, the one you wear on your chest, left or right, and press also in this case for your ballot. Because there'll still be time for a vote against Sunday. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party will support these powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u86	The explanation of vote does not refer to the subject, at least part of the explanation of vote does not refer to the topic on which we are voting at the moment. I ask that the explanation of vote really be used to explain why you or your parliamentary group vote in favour and not how others should vote and what others should vote for. Mr Tillen Christmas has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. In this case, the parliamentary group will vote on the contrary from colleagues, it is said, today against, on Sunday for, for the following reasons. We have set ourselves the goal of searching the bank’s hole and simply chasing newspapers, or some talk or call from behind the speakers, will not help. What does that mean? This is to process the work that has somehow been entrusted to us, this is to ensure a condition for the work of the competent authorities. And that's guaranteed. On what basis can we conclude this? Based on the data that's here. This is said to be done by those institutions responsible for this: the prosecution, the police, etc. We have 211 crimes in which the bank's victims were. This is for €740 million. We have 104 suspicions of crimes currently under consideration. This is for 368 million euros in damage. We have 107 completed investigations. Of these, 79 complaints were filed and in 28 cases a report was submitted to the prosecution. These 79 complaints are aggregated and amount to EUR 235 million. The most common cases were abuse of position or trust in economic activities, and some other cases were found. Police have found that they currently have sufficient expertise for these purposes. These tasks are also carried out by the NPK and also by the police at regional level. But if we look at the applicants, banks that are not supposed to cooperate have reported 128 crimes against 181 people. The rest was detected by the police themselves. As far as the judiciary is concerned, given that the scale has now moved on them, because they have to work this out, the police have started handing over tasks, 30 additional prosecutors have been provided for these cases and 4 million Euros of additional resources to be able to properly educate and prosecute these crimes. Thus, we are not just talking about words, we are talking about actions to train those who are responsible and called upon to provide them with funds and to do what has been imposed on them in the first place. The Commission notes political responsibility, the Court of Auditors finds something else. We're talking about that part, the bank hole, the crime scene, the police, the D.A., etc. As far as that investigation is concerned, the Court of Auditors can only go into this, it has a basis in the law on SDH, it can investigate ten years ago, so it doesn't need us. As experts, they have already learned that it may be worth furthering and will do so. As for the constructive proposals, as you have seen, we accept them in the previous vote, in which case we do not take them as such. But why didn't they do it before 2014, and someone else will probably have to say it. So we'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u88	Please continue that the explanation of vote is not controversial with other groups. It is the same as all other things, so I said earlier that I would like to ask that we only talk about this item of the agenda and the explanation of the vote on this item of the agenda so that we do not spread. Even if that means an answer to someone else who went through with it. Any other explanation for the voice? Is there anything else in her own name? Then I'd like you to sign in. You can sign up now. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. There are a million reasons why I am voting for this today in euros. Even though the Court of Auditors does have powers, we are Members of the legislative branch of power, and it is right to say and show by action, not by saying what is right. You can believe that I will also continue to watch over what is happening to this treaty and others. But those who vote against it today take responsibility for things that do not happen as they should. 50 police officers could be at the New Ljubljana Bank. And nobody's gonna tell me 50 cops wouldn't make more than six retired cops. It doesn't drink water, dear colleagues and colleagues. And don't fool the Slovenian public with nice words, but show them what's right. I will absolutely vote in favour, and not just today on Sunday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u90	But please stop, Sunday, we're on Friday. And this space right now is absolutely not meant for a referendum campaign. For no one, no one. Given what's been going on in this room, it's very small. Another explanation for the vote is in his own name. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today we have one key and extremely important political issue in this National Assembly. And that is whether the Slovenian policy is to expose the mafia association, which has robbed the entire banking system. And I'm sorry, we're in the Slovenian Democratic Party for revealing ourselves. SMC, Desus is voting against such a decision today. This is amazing how far this policy has been brought. Is that possible, but is that even possible? On one side of the SMC, he's always saying how important it is to expose thieves, and I don't know what story they went to the elections and the elections they got. Even though it's unfair, they got it. And today you are voting against us to expose the thieves who stole this country. The Slovenian public must know that. She needs to know who she's facing. Colleagues and colleagues, this really goes beyond the limits of common sense. I am sure that those who vote against this today are well aware of why you will vote against it. At the same time, if you all had a chance to say it today, and that is crucial, we will vote against it in the Slovenian Democratic Party on Sunday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u92	But we'd like to calm down first, please. Procedural first, Mr. Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A little earlier, you warned the Members about what they were saying at this point in the agenda. Everyone should decide how to vote. My predecessor, Mr Marijan Pojbič, did not say so, but he said how others would vote. I think that this is not in line with the agenda item and with what we have now and at this point on the agenda, so it would be your job to point that out and also to stop not talking about others. Let him talk about himself and his delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u94	I have my word first. I agree with what has been said, I have warned since the beginning of this point that you are all abusing this point for something else, or for controversy or for things that have nothing to do with this point. Procedural. Mr. Marijan Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u95	Your Honor, Mr President, I would just like to say that, procedurally, anyone who is already advertised in Parliament is saying what should be true. I may apologize to Franz Jurša for a single sentence or one of the words I said earlier. At the same time, I must say that Franz must also apologize to me for lying and telling him the truth. The SMC has made it very clear how it will vote. And that's all I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u96	Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u97	If it pleases my colleague Marian Pojbich, Mr Marian, I deeply apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u98	I'm saying I've seen interest in explaining my voice in my own name. Since there's been more of this, I'm asking you to report it. Please! We're at a meeting of the National Assembly! Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer has the word to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues! I would like to raise one point, which will also explain why I will vote against it. Not alone, we do not have my colleagues and colleagues from the SMC Group, nor have we had any direct involvement in the issue that is now being addressed here in the context of the vote. That's the problem, and we realize it's a big problem. At the same time, there's something else I'd like to point out. The commitment we have given to our constituents and by which we act is to respect the principles of the rule of law and the powers that individual institutions in our system take over in this context. In his explanation of the SMC Group, Comrade Tillen Bozič already stated exactly which institutions and what procedures are already competent and involved in addressing this major problem. He said that the proposal that we are voting on now does not refer to the powers of Parliament or of the National Assembly, but to those institutions that are already doing their work. And that is the main reason why I will vote against it myself. Because I respect the principles and rules of the rule of law. That's the reason. Otherwise, at this point, I would say that such initiatives can also be understood as an attempt at political manipulation with very serious matters that deserve proper prosecution. And another message. Decision in the SMC Group is a matter of the SMC Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u100	I'm asking you to sign up. Apparently, there's still an explanation for the vote in your own name. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are many words in this temple of democracy. How many acts were committed? In the SMC Group, you listed earlier how many complaints there have been, how many prosecutions there have been, and how many cases have come up with the final epilogue regarding the banking sites. Five billion were stolen from banks. How many came to the final epilogue? Zero, total zero. That's your theory. Today, in this pre-godly time, you are very generous Christmases to all those who have stolen it from banks. Because by law you will prevent them from being exposed to these irregularities. These are actions. But there are some words that you speak. I don't know who you're talking to. So I will support these recommendations so that these irregularities are revealed and those who have done so also respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u102	We vote on the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of advisory contracts in Novi Ljubljanska banka, d.d. I'm not going to go through the list anymore because you're checking in one by one. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 34. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Qualifications Framework in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 of whom voted against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Matjaž Han. I'm sorry, everything's wrong. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u103	Was that on purpose?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u104	Absolutely not on purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u105	That's good. We will not support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats, because in some ways we oppose the idea that the private interest of individuals or groups should be fully financed by the State. In Wednesday's debate, we made our arguments clear for our decision, and many of these arguments unfortunately the majority of the Constitutional Court at the time when it adopted its decision did not take into account and was in some way inconsistent with international documents, decisions of international courts. Some facts. Private school is not the same as public school. Pika. Therefore, it cannot be granted equal budgetary assistance or attention. A private school may implement a smaller scope of the programme. Is that right? Hold it! All he has to do is provide minimum knowledge. Is that right? Hold it! The formation of private school classes is optional and adaptation of the skills of students in private school is not necessary. That's what he's holding. The private school sets a school calendar independently and independently of the public school. Is that right? Hold it! Educational and educational periods, while the presence of a teacher and a teacher who is compulsory in public school is a matter of free judgment in private school. That's what he's holding. And last but not least, a private school, respected, accepts the students it chooses, so it chooses the ones it wants in some way. We therefore think that this is not a good recipe for such a law to be supported by the Social Democrats in some way. I hope that we will first change Article 57 of the Constitution and then, on the basis of this amended Article of the Constitution, I hope, we will also be able to amend the legislation. And I wish you a happy new year, honored and respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u106	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u107	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Whoever really advocates equality and equality will in this case vote in favour. The point is that we want to introduce a standard in this country: for equal work, equal pay. And that's the expression that the socialists should understand the most. The State has given certain private schools the opportunity to teach publicly recognized programs. This is the same program that is taught in public schools. The Constitutional Court found that there was absolutely no reason for us to make a difference and to request a different payment for the same work. And the logical consequence of this is that we will confirm this today with our own voice. And another thing that needs to be said in these matters is that these private schools do not last help the country, because the country is burdened by the cost of the infrastructure in which this teaching takes place. In public schools, the country is the one with the cost of teachers and the cost of maintenance of facilities, and in private schools implementing the public programme, it is right that teachers are paid at the rate of 100 % of the programme they carry out, while the cost of infrastructure is the same for those who attend the school. I hope that the words on equality and equality are not just empty straw or falscules and that this will also reflect today by your vote "for".
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u108	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you, President, for your word. We have a constitution in the Republic of Slovenia and we must follow it. We do not need to follow the intimate desires set out to change everything in the Constitution, for this is the place in the National Assembly, so that your intimates may eventually come true. 60 votes, amendment of the Constitution. But the current constitution is clear and the Constitutional Court has decided, in accordance with the current constitution, that financing of private programmes, programs in primary schools must be equal between public and private schools. And I am very sorry that I am again listening to the debate on the whole sphere of public and private education and on the full financing of public and private education during the explanations of votes today. In the SDS Group, we will support this law, because we are following closely the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the 100% funding of programmes in private primary schools. And all those who are so moralized about the constitution should finally stick to these constitutions. This is why the SDS voice goes to support this legal novel, which is simple, following the Constitutional Court's decision and wants all primary school children to be equal, because everyone gets the same certificate. More. We have prepared this law solely for one reason, because in January 2015 we have listened to how the government, the same government, will comply with the Constitutional Court's decision by the end of this one-year period. And unfortunately today we see where this government's intent goes. Instead of respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the amendment of the Constitution is only to make an ideological bypass. As we oppose this in the SDS Group, we will support this bill, which also gives children who attend private primary school programmes equal opportunities, equal starting points and equally valid programmes when this education is completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u110	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, chairman. Enlightenment, 200 years ago. At that time, in history, the layman’s government ripped the education out of the hands of individuals who were mostly religious communities. In Europe, this was the Roman Catholic Church. The achievement that our education is free, lazily, that it is in the public hands that it is under democratic control is a civilization achievement is an enlightened achievement. Because in the United Left we follow the values of enlightenment, because in the United Left in the 21st century, we are defending the values of enlightenment from those who want to deny it today, we will vote against the 100% public funding of private schools. There are two reasons, pardon, and the underlying reasons why we object to the proposal before us are two. The first reason lies in the fact that private schools can come into a privileged position in the long run by paying their parents a small fee, since they then have more resources. They can offer better programmes, and this leads to the predominance of private education over public education, and will not have to wait so long to get two parallel school systems. One will be more or less in private and will serve the rich, will serve the elites of this country. The second, significantly less quality public system will remain for everyone else, for a paradise that will, of course, receive lower quality education and will therefore make it more difficult to use social mobility instruments. The second reason is the principle reason. Look, if someone wants someone as an individual or as an organized group, a private group, to organize education, they have to be motivated by something in particular. Public education does not need a public interest in its motivation. However, if a private person enters the field of education, or if a woman is either a partial ideological motive, and this means that the public is compromised by certain ideological partialities, or motivated by a profit lever, education is actually organised as a profitable activity for their earnings. Education is too important a social subsystem to leave it to such or other partial interests as religious impulses, and it is too important to leave it to some market logic and market dynamics. Knowledge is not a commodity, knowledge is a right that must be made available in our society to all under the same conditions in good quality and in public hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u112	Any other explanation first on behalf of the Group of Members. No, no, no. Then an explanation in its own name Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There are two reasons why I will not support this marriage. One reason is for sure that we must be aware that the Constitutional Court has ruled on this issue. Even though I don't agree with it, it's the government that should make the change. Because it is not, but it is probably not because other colleagues are terribly afraid of what will happen. And in history this has happened several times, especially since this second reason is more important to me. This is because, in May, the Constitutional Commission launched procedures to amend the Constitution, which are not completed. And it's right to say what we're going to do with what's been started before. And I find it really unhygienic, especially if the law comes from the opposition, but we have this ministry to deal with this issue when we do not really know how the proceedings on the Constitutional Commission will proceed. There's not enough time. This is another incentive for the government to move as soon as possible, and last but not least, to urge the President of the Constitutional Commission to speed up the procedure or the expert group has already received the task and there is no response. Continued. However, in this case, I am voting against what will happen first, but it is clear that the decision will have to be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u114	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. To understand this and show it is best to start with a sentence: in this poor Slovenia everything is really on top of the head. In order to understand what transition leftists are doing with public education, it is necessary to understand that money carriers, capital with it, are, of course, transitional leftists, after which Slovenia is something special. And what do they do in practice? They talk about public education, they fetishise it, and in fact everyone in the order of union heads, to the former president of the country, to those who are here in Parliament, they send their children to school, you won't believe, to private schools either at home or to different private schools at different levels of education abroad because they have money for it. And in order to prevent these left-wing people who are full of language caring for ordinary citizens from teaching their children in the same way, they then adopt laws which, of course, do not allow private education – although at least providing such quality education – to be financed from public funds. This is not because you would care for a poor paradise, as you yourself said, but because you are concerned that this poor paradise would be educated and more capable of you and put you where you belong: in the dump of history. It's really behind what you're so committed to. And that's why you're even willing to change the constitution so that your children will be privileged because you have money and you're teaching them in private schools and you're sending them to school abroad, and that everyone else couldn't possibly afford it. And that this layer will continue to be privileged, as it has been for the past 70 years. That is why this left-wing movement is a transitional leftist and with the right left-wing direction, the one that was meant to be social has nothing in common. He has in his words, but in his actions it is completely the opposite. And that is why, of course, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u116	For a while, we had an explanation for the voice. Please explain your vote in particular during the explanations of vote. We're at this point now. Not to deal with others, but with your voice, please. This was more of a debate than an explanation. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of this law being given the opportunity to proceed with the parliamentary procedure. I am the kind of MEP who respects the Constitutional Court, and there is no debate here. If I do not respect this, if many people and even parliamentarians do not respect the Constitutional Court, then we are close to the collapse of the system. I estimate that the smart country is the country that invests in software, not in hardware. Let's invest in programs, invest in teachers, not walls. And thank God if we find private people, private institutions to build walls. Thank God! This is a very bad economic investment. Thank God we have them. We almost don't have them, we're world recorders in this competition, which means we're very far behind. We only have three private primary schools. I think I can discuss funding and primary school, so I can say something about improving the primary school system, because I have put this experience in my children through. I will never forget that the principal of the primary school, which my children attended, said that the primary school must also be competitive because competition was a driver of development. Because of this and other many matters, even because our former Member of New Slovenia, Mr Anton Kokalj, was among the proponents for the constitutional review of this law, I will vote in favour because I know that he has not made a mistake. It is the financing of programmes which are identical in private to these three primary schools, as well as to all the other 450. I see there's a lot of misunderstanding here. Merry Christmas to you all, dear colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u118	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour because if there is a right in a democratic society, then there is a right to another choice. That's what we need to talk about. So about the second choice, about parents having a choice. Now that you are talking, there is a whole range of private schools in Croatia, international private schools, as we have a French private school in Ljubljana and as my colleague spoke before me, even in Austria, Germany, etc. Experience shows that these private schools are extremely quality. In the transition left there is one great duality, always defending everything publicly, putting his children abroad, both in private schools, both in high school and in colleges. Although it's not a story of colleges now, not of America, the first twenty elite colleges are private, the 21st Berkeley, according to the current scale, is a public university. But let's leave it at that because we're in primary school. So it's the right to choose. And the right to choose is to extend in Slovenia the possibility of operating private primary schools as well as programmes and that these are co-financed. I am confident that we must make a choice at this very moment so that we do not need any constitutional provisions on this. I am sure and will therefore also vote in favour that this direction is necessary and, above all, that it is more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u120	Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Today, of course, I will vote in favour of this law. Why? This law fulfils what the Ministry of Education should have already proposed. We know that a good year ago, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision that public primary education programmes should be financed by 100 %. Now it's been over a year, and it still hasn't happened. It is therefore appropriate that this law has been proposed and may further encourage the ministry if this law is not adopted today. Why do we make a difference between one child and another? Why do we make a difference between one parent and another? Parents and children decided to attend a private elementary school with a public school program for some reason. Whether it is quality or have other methods of work or anything, thank God, some have this opportunity to choose. Someone at the other end of Slovenia cannot choose such a school because it is not there. And also these children are our Slovenian citizens and their parents taxpayers. And the country is even better off if it only finances the programme, not investments. And you mean to say, whatever it costs, we'll be against it in this case. I will be decisive in this case because I want to have more competitiveness in this area, although I am glad that we have a well-developed public education, that we have quality schools, that we have a good education programme. But why would private schools choose only those who have money? These schools, despite having to pay some extras, also enable those from socially weaker families to attend school.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u122	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the area of primary schools, according to the most vulnerable group, we have an anti-constitutional situation. And that's a worrisome thing to worry about. Even more worrying is the fact that they are sitting in this national assembly of individual parties who do nothing in this area. We have a proposal ahead of us, and I will definitely support it. The fact is that intolerance and fear of believers cannot be the subject of this debate. It is about equalizing children in primary education. And more! Today we have a private primary school, which is 100 percent funded, but we have a private primary school that doesn't have that option. This is even more worrying. Both also represent some alternative educational methods and concepts that enrich the mandatory programme. They know that all over the world. These programs have been proven to be more than successful. Because of some prejudices, you feel that such programs or types of work do not belong to primary school as well as to public primary school. Once again, I will of course support this, and allow me, although I will probably call back, because today is so many congratulations that I first have to give you the respect of a worthy day of independence and unity. Let it be reflected once in this national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u124	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u125	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Because I am in favour of eliminating injustices because I am in favour of the rule of law because I am following the Constitutional Court's constitution and decisions, I will vote in favour of the proposed law. We need an even better school system, even better education. One of the more effective methods is to open up and encourage our school system with some healthy competitiveness and to put an end to this division of children into what school they go to or what school they attend. We have three private schools. Three private schools since 470. And you're afraid of that. What are we afraid of? Competitiveness in education and education also means an even better school system, an even better education for our youngest. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this abroad, and the result is that they go from Slovenia to schools abroad. We mustn't be afraid of having the school system according to the measure of man. Instead of pushing for a private initiative instead of following the decisions of the Constitutional Court, let us support the private initiative that our children will have a better school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u126	Mr Saša Tabaković has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u127	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. Today we are not talking about those private schools that are already 100 percent co-financed by the state, these are those schools that have concessions. We are talking about schools that do not have these concessions, but should still be co-financed 100%. I think that such an understanding of the private is completely wrong. By its decision, the Constitutional Court has, of course, opened a Pandora's Box which rightly leads to the possibility that any individual who has five minutes of time could open his own private school, whether or not he has a concession, to be financed by the State 100 per cent. The fact that these programs are comparable is that these schools, which an individual would visit, would, of course, be able to apply this knowledge when he finishes this school later. This is the only justification that is comparable as far as the programmes are concerned. We're not talking about private education today. After the OECD study there are actually no private schools in Slovenia, as these are not privately funded, but mostly by the country. In this respect, I will also vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u128	Mrs Marija Bachič has an explanation for the vote on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll vote against it. Why? Because we've already said that public school and private school are different. They differ in the subject, it is said that a private school is not necessary to take into account an subject such as the public school. This is said to have one foreign language, has one subject from sociology and so on. When it comes to children, whether they are students or children, they are not in the same position as national knowledge checks. For each time, the Ministry determines a different subject and what happens if these students in a private school do not listen to the subject that will be in the national knowledge check. Since they do not need to take into account the Triads, because they do not need to take into account the school calendar, they can design all of these in their own way, which can make them cheaper. In addition, in private schools, only minimal knowledge can be achieved by students, and I wonder if these minimum knowledge will then be sufficient for the further education of these students. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u130	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you. I will vote in favour because I respect the Constitution, respect the Constitutional Court's decision, although I probably agree with a lot that I sometimes have a problem with consent, but I respect them, and I think they need to be enforced. Above all, they must be enforced at a time when we have a government in power that is most ethical, moral and legally binding, as it says. I will vote in favour because it does not hold that, unlike private schools, public schools are free or free of charge. Whoever has children in Slovenian schools knows that the claim that school costs nothing is a big lie. I will vote in favour because we are talking about financing standards or programmes in primary schools. And those superstandards that are so God-fearing to you, this law is by no means touched. Moreover, this law does not touch investment, investment and everything else. Who fears that 1% of private schools will take over 99% of public schools will push against it. But anyone who wants development in primary education to move forward will be afraid to push for it. But the saddest part is that we talk about fear of private schools instead of the coalition dealing with whether we want good schools or bad schools. And I am most afraid that this trend, which you are introducing today by rejecting this law, will continue not only with the change of constitution in this area, but with the slow abolition of private health, private property and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u132	We are talking about point 11, this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The word to explain the voice in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u133	I will vote in favour of this law. My reason will be to try to substantiate it very plasticly. If you have a bus on the route from Ljubljana to Maribor, and you have a bus from a public company, and you have a bus from a private company, and the country will give you 20 euros for this ride, and you say if I go on a public bus, it is only right that I pay the driver 20 euros for a ride from Ljubljana to Maribor, but if I go on a private bus and only because of the private bus, I will give him 18 euros. That's your argument. And that's why I'm saying that this is about equality, about respect for equality, about the cost of that bus being at the expense of the state and the cost of a private bus being on the private bus. I have a feeling that this is a simple ideological fear, for some kind of ideological frustration, because these private schools come from an environment that you are not closest to. And it would be far more fair on your part to correct the criteria to say, see, the criteria that the state pays you for a public programme are such, such and such. Specify the very precise criteria in which the school is recognised to be implementing a public programme. And if this programme is implemented in the way the state wants it to, then it is right that 100% is financed if it does not implement it, then it is right that it is not financed. But be honest. But don't say such things that these schools are inquality. If you look at what kind of students from these schools are coming from, you can see that they are very, very quality. And at least be honest in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u134	At this point, we are at the meeting of the National Assembly, which is called a vote and not a debate. Mrs Irena Kotnik has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it. But not because I'm against private education because I'm taking private education as a complement to public education. I am convinced that public education is quality, even though I believe that there is something else we can do in public education. I know private education, which is now in our space. Because I know it from my own experience, it's good and it doesn't put anyone at risk, and I don't feel like there's any ideological difference here. I'm worried about what happens to these private schools in the future. I think we've forgotten one thing here. We have forgotten the current social and current changes that are taking place in our country. I don't know if you've been monitoring anything about these private schools having problems in some European countries, for example in Norway and Austria, which is one of these private schools, it was a Turkish school, and it closed. So I think it would be much more necessary to talk about which guardians are to be put into law, who will be able to set up private schools, under what conditions will be established, how quality will be ensured, how material conditions will be ensured, how will registration into the register and more such questions be provided. Since I have no answers to these questions in this law, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u136	Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you, President for your word. On Wednesday, when the debate was held on this novel, which we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were accused by one member of the Slovenian Democratic Party of making an hate speech. That's when we're procedurally from the chairman, that's what the mags say. Bojane Muršič, Vice-President of the National Assembly, was asked to tell us where we used to make hate speech in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mrs Muršič, this is already in the record, she said she would look at the magnetogram and tell us during the session where we were making the hate speech. Mr President, before we go to the vote, I would like to ask you to invite your Vice-President to tell us what she told us at the time when she agreed to the procedural request that we meet, which will probably end within half an hour, to tell us where we made the hate speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u138	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. The Member in question in this case is certainly me. And I'm going to renew the events to clarify the situation at that session. What has happened in particular is that a proposal or question has been asked in the sense of showing where Members of the SDS are currently using the hate speech. Of course, the statement by the SDS Group has never and never gone in the direction that they use hate speech at this meeting at this time. This was simply an assumption, a mistake by a fellow Member, Mr Jana Mahnič, who accompanied my debate from the safe protection of his office. I believe it was a purely unfortunate mistake on his part, but he was mistaken after the accident that he did not want to manipulate at all. But I'm not shutting it down, but maybe on his television, when he was watching my debate, he stole a Murgel scaffolder, and there he got those cables, and he heard a mistake and something completely different that was actually said. I am taking so many steps in this place also in the defence of the President at the moment of the meeting, which was Mrs Bojana of the Social Democrats. I think she did the right thing. However, if she wishes to give any justification at this meeting in a procedural manner, we can be happy to listen to her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u140	I'll say what I think first, and then I'll put it procedurally forward. From what has now emerged as procedural, which has nothing to do with the current course of the session, so here it begins, then an explanation of what happened at the time, would have concluded on the basis of this very interpretation that it was actually more of an accusation that someone should be making a hate speech without being able to justify what that hate speech was. One part of this last procedural procedure was also offensive. Do we have another procedure? We don't. [[adverts from benches]] Who's got the procedure? Mag. Branko Grimes, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u141	Mr President, my procedural proposal is intended primarily for you that, in the event that a question is specifically addressed to Vice-President Muršičeva in the present case, you do not give the opportunity to abuse someone like the Member who has clearly experienced the opportunity here to show what the theory of sex means and to declare himself Mrs Muršičeva or so has been understood. But don't be surprised, you're still Miha Kordish. But you convinced me so much more that I would vote against it on Sunday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u142	That's what it is, but that's very insulting. I really don't understand why you have to discuss this. Yes, I would like to vote on the decision: The proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 53. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the transparency and democraticity of its functioning and the functioning of ministries. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 4. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 49. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the recommendation inconsistent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection is suitable for further consideration. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u143	The fact is that both Slovenia and Europe are facing a difficult migration problem. The fact is that we have been warning the government for several months that so-called asylum legislation should be tightened. The fact is that this has already been done by other countries: Austria, Germany, Denmark, etc. The fact is that the government has also found that asylum policy needs to be tightened up and proposed its proposal for a law. The fact is that a constructive debate has also shown that individual solutions in this law have also been supported by members of the largest coalition party. The fact is that changes in this area are more than necessary and it is necessary to ensure first the situation or good conditions for its citizens and then to help the best of its ability. The fact is that we will vote in favour of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is also that it is a first reading, which is still the power to complete in the follow-up procedure. However, the fact is that if it is in the interest of the country or government to actually take an important step forward and show that, in the first place, making conditions more acute for the migrant sector, they will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-18-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u144	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 54. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 54.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 14th meeting of the National Assembly and invite you to attend the National Assembly meeting on the day of independence and unity, which will be held on Wednesday 23 December at 7 p.m. I thank the Members and Members and the services of the National Assembly for their work this year, and I want all the good in the next and peaceful Christmas holidays.
