ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Janja Sluga, Mrs Iva Dimic from 16:00 on, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 2.30 p.m., Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that has restored the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery cost taxpayers more than €5 billion and is a question of whether this is the final sum or not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that part of the responsibility for the situation in the Slovenian banking system is also borne by the regulator, Banka Slovenije. Despite the fact that the European Central Bank has now become a supervisor over the three largest system banks, we are confident that Banka Slovenije will still play a very important role in the banking system and will also depend on Banka Slovenije as a result of the operation of banks in Slovenia, and directly or indirectly will also affect the state of the Slovenian economy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Bank of Slovenia Act needs additions and changes. The objectives and principles of the proposed law are, in particular, to increase or ensure transparency of operation and to establish the democratic responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its organs, namely, the Governor and the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The bill follows the principle, transparency, transparency and accountability of public institutions and their bodies. I will continue to present the main solutions brought by the proposed law and, of course, more explanations for individual changes in the discussion below. Banka Slovenije has the exact same report for both the National Assembly and the general public, which means that Banka Slovenije shares responsibility and reporting to the National Assembly with the general public, although the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the laws do not give rise to this. We therefore propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that an article be supplemented by a provision that the report for the National Assembly should be comprehensive and, if necessary, should include confidential information and information. The Act on Banka Slovenije provides, inter alia, that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall regulate the rights and obligations arising from working relations for the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia determine their own remuneration and other rights from the working relationship, which is disputed for the Slovenian Democratic Party. The public has been repeatedly appalled by the extraordinary receipts of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and is expected to be better addressed by the cooperation of the European Central Bank. However, the current Banka Slovenije Act also stipulates that the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia find themselves also incompatible in the performance of the functions of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, not only controversial but also unethical. The representatives of the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for Finance and Monetary Policy and the Minister responsible for Finance may participate in the meetings of the Bank of Slovenia, but do not have the right to vote. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is a need to ensure greater transparency and democraticism in the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia, and therefore, with the proposed amendment, we propose that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia may also be represented by the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which means that the opposition would have its representative, of course without a vote. The draft law proposes to amend the provisions on the number of terms of office of the Governor and Vice-Governors and on the appointment and extension of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Thus, the governors and vice-governors could be reappointed at the most once, the extension of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia could be proposed by the President of the Republic and decided by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of all Members. A two-thirds majority of all Members would also be appointed members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In order to ensure a more efficient operation of the Bank of Slovenia, it is proposed that the Governor may at any time, without reason, dismiss the Director or Deputy Director of the Bank of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that all these changes would improve the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia, allow for more effective supervision and, above all, that the result will be [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Better operation of banks in Slovenia. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly is today discussing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this proposal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposed amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act affect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the following with regard to specific amendments to the law. With the addition of Article 26 of the Bank of Slovenia Act regulating the reporting of Bank of Slovenia to the National Assembly, the report of Bank of Slovenia must be comprehensive and, in so far as it is necessary to include confidential information and information. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that Banka Slovenije's reporting is already properly and comprehensively regulated and therefore no changes are necessary in this area. Regarding the information provided by representatives of the National Assembly on the work of the Bank of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that representatives of the National Assembly have good opportunities to obtain information from the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the Banka Slovenije Act in force, a representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly may participate in meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. This competence of the National Assembly in terms of obtaining relevant information is actually stronger than the regular reporting to the National Assembly as proposed by the law-makers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also opposes the proposal that the governors and vice-governors should be re-appointed at the most once, since it considers that there are no legitimate reasons for such a limitation of the number of governors and vice-governors' mandates. The appointment of governors and vice-governors is under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. In doing so, the Member shall be given the opportunity not to appoint the Governor or Vice-Governor who failed to perform his work again. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also disagrees with the proposal to require a two-thirds majority of all members of the National Assembly to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The current arrangements under which a majority of all Members are required for appointment shall be appropriate and comparable to those laid down in other comparable laws, such as the Constitutional Court Act and the Court of Auditors Act. The law in force concerning the discharge of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia provides that a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia may be released prematurely only if he so requests discharge, if there are grounds for incompatibilities during the term of office, or if it is established within the prescribed period that he no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of his duties or has committed a serious breach. In accordance with the law, the Regulation governing that procedure was issued by the Bank of Slovenia in agreement with the Minister of Finance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the current procedure for early discharge of the Governor is in line with the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, which ensure the independence of the decision-making bodies of the national central banks. Therefore, it does not agree with the proposal that the National Assembly should assess whether a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia has committed a serious breach of the law or constitution, as this would violate the principle of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. The Government does not oppose the proposal to provide the Court of Auditors with a legal basis for the revision of the Bank of Slovenia from the point of view of the use of public funds, but an appropriate basis must be provided in the Court of Auditors Act, taking into account the requirements set out in its opinion by the European Central Bank. On the basis of the above and on the basis of the opinion of the European Central Bank, the Government does not support the proposed law and considers it not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia are school cases where neoliberalism has nothing to do with freedom, but it must always be introduced through administrative, economic and political coercion. So in Europe. If we go to Latin America sometimes even with guns. In Europe, both in the last ten years, we have a power centre that has as much power as any central bank in history. This power centre, as French economist Thomas Piketty recently pointed out, is "always more independent", which in practice means that it is increasingly alienated from citizens and the economy and is therefore so much closer to financial capital interests. Nobody even hides this because the ECB's status is completely clear. The European Central Bank’s task is to ensure price stability, i.e. the security of financial investments to the detriment of development and employment. If we look across the sea into the US, which is the leading capitalist state, their central bank operates on completely different principles. It puts employment first, i.e. lending to the economy and development. Secondly, price stability, but attention, is balanced by limiting interest rates. The high interest rates are a source of income as they shift real-economy investments into financial speculation. As Keynes said, "The renter's euthanasia is a prerequisite for full employment policy." In Banka Slovenije, Keynesa was stopped from reading long ago and certainly did not read his pupil Hyman Minsky, as they would have adhered to these principles and would probably have taken some measure against the overheating of financial markets between 2007 and 2008. If we look at how things have been going after the crisis, we can compare the recovery of the United States after 2010 and the calvary that Europe has experienced over the years, we need to make it clear to everyone whether the Ordoliberals in Frankfurt or the Keynesians in New York are right. The difference between one GDP and another is that the US today has 108% of pre-crisis GDP and 99% of the EU's monetary policy. The EU has not even exceeded its 2007 GDP or if we compare it with the US, it means that the EU has lost 726 billion GDP since 2010 due to its monetary and fiscal policies. Such a system of European central banking is, of course, appropriate for some. It is in line with the most powerful European countries, as it creates Europe at two speeds. This is how Germany today, if I illustrate a little bit, drives by fast train and has exceeded the pre-crisis level of GDP by 3.5%. The periphery, including Slovenia, is forced to drive on the industrial track, so Slovenia's GDP is still 7.3% lower than before the crisis. Of course, we are far from the worst or the slowest. In short, the European System of Central Banks is both on paper and in practice imported and a radical change will be needed. If we look now at Banka Slovenije, which is the matter of today's point. Its symptom is that it must resort to increasingly drastic disciplinary measures and, on the other hand, does not perform its primary functions. Her territory is getting stronger. Our banking system is also centralized, and the result is one big paradox. More than Banka Slovenije has powers, we have less confidence in our banking system. If we look only at some of the powers that Banka Slovenije currently has. Banka Slovenije can now be circumcised for any commercial bank decision. The Bank of Slovenia may withdraw a licence from any member of the Supervisory Board of any bank. It has the power to send the bank, which, according to international accounting standards, has 824 million positive capital, into compulsory settlement, i.e. bankruptcy. We are talking, of course, about the NLB case of 30. 9. 2013 The Bank of Slovenia issues decisions to dissipate owners and creditors. Only in the case of NKBM were there as many as 100,000. The Bank of Slovenia determines the amounts of recapitalisation, co-decisions on the transfer value, the penalties it imposes are increasing. Under the macro-prudential development law and the ever-increasing new banking laws, it will provide for additional capital adequacy, i.e. new barriers to lending, additional costs for banks and committees. If we look at neighbouring Austria, we'll see interesting information. Austria is facing the crisis of its third largest bank today, because Raiffeisen was also distracted by Hyp and Volksbank, and they are now discussing that the capital adequacy of banks would increase from 10% to 12%, and we have the capital adequacy of the two largest banks over 20%, according to NLB and NKBM, over 20% of the capital adequacy and the Bank of Slovenia is still not satisfied. I could count it, but you don't have to. I think it is already clear from this why this institution needs democratic control and democratic guidance. In addition, the objectives and ways of managing monetary policy in Slovenia should also be questioned. Slovenia had, if we look at it in the past, a 15-year-old independent central bank that wisely held a low tolar, compared with the brand and later with the euro. By doing so, it encouraged exports and prevented excessive pressure on wages and employment. This contributed to the fact that between 1992 and 2005 Slovenia was catching up with the old members of the European Union after the social product, without external imbalances. By 2005, Slovenia had actually been a net creditor abroad, public debt had been declining and it had never reached even 30% of GDP, today we have 80. The balance sheet deficit was minimal, there was no inflatable financial and real estate balloons, and unemployment gradually decreased. The Bank of Slovenia, here we see its power, played the role expected of the central bank in the social market economy by different policies at the time of entry into the euro area. It has taken care of growth and employment, not the stability of prices and the security of financial investments, as the central banking system does today. In addition, the banking system is increasingly moving away from the people and following completely wrong policies. The proposals we have on the table today are at least going towards increasing the legitimate control of democratic institutions over the central bank, so we will support this solution in the United Left in the first reading. However, we have comments on certain articles, which we will comment on later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u7	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all of you. I welcome the secretary of state with my coworkers. On finding that Slovenian taxpayers have already been extorted twice by Slovenian state banks, it must certainly not be without measures, without a thorough reflection by the legislator, is called the National Assembly. Strong measures must be taken to ensure that this will never happen again. We're big money, we've thrown many billions of euros into the bank. And what happened? For citizens, practically nothing. Nothing happened to the citizens. Even today, small businesses cannot get credit, and it is precisely because we have thrown a lot of development money into a bank hole, which is a kind of crater, that fact is also, in fact, in some ways, a failure in Slovenia's developmental backlog. Those who, back in 2004, told us that the Republic of Slovenia was the new successful star in the European sky and thought of us as role models, today they are overtaking us on the left and right. Slovenia is lagging behind. Therefore, it is certainly the first answer to the question of what to do not to repeat bank holes, surely the first answer is to strengthen supervision and to strengthen governance in state banks. The second answer is almost privatisation. According to the Bank of Slovenia law, the central institution is responsible for overseeing the banking system. The situation in Slovenian banking, where we have already solved almost a 5 billion-dollar bank hole, has shown that supervision of the banking system has been insufficient in recent years and that more stringent supervisory mechanisms need to be put in place in this area with additional supervisory powers. It is also necessary to establish a legal basis for the greater responsibility of the supervisor, namely Banka Slovenije. Under the current rules, neither the Governor nor the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia can be called to account for a serious breach of their obligations or cannot be relieved of their functions prematurely for this reason. And in this part, the Bank of Slovenia Act must certainly be supplemented. At the last meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, we heard from the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance that in banks that had been heavily rehabilitated by tax money, there remained poor claims for a total of almost EUR 5 billion. So we can only wait for their new recapitalisation. Of course, once again with tax money, the general public has no right to know who the recipients of the bad loans were and what their amount remains in the banks, following a recent decision by the Constitutional Court. However, taxpayers have the right and duty to cover permanent bank holes. In spite of the establishment of the Bank's Claims Management Company, our state banks have remained uncleared of bad claims. Of course, the public would like to know why some of the credits were transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company, and they became public, but some did not, and they stayed in banks. We wonder what the criteria were for the decision to pass on to the Bank's Claims Management Company, thereby allowing the public to see bad credits, which claim to keep in the bank and allow credit recipients to remain in safe bank secrecy. Information on such credits must be made available, if not to the general public through websites, at least to the National Assembly, its working bodies and investigative commissions. In this part of the marriage solution in New Slovenia we certainly support. One of the proposed innovations is the possibility of the opposition, specifically representatives of the Commission for the supervision of public finances at the meetings of the Bank's Council, of course without the possibility of voting. Another important novelty is the strengthening of the supervisory function of the National Assembly over the work of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia has to report more frequently, six months and more to the National Assembly on possible classified and confidential data, such as bad bank claims, as mentioned earlier. In particular, the obligation to report Banka Slovenije more precisely in cases where the individual bank or the savings facility would need State aid. The bill also provides for the establishment of control over the operations of the Bank of Slovenia through the Court of Auditors, and of course we welcome that. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will support the draft law in the first reading, because we believe that the area of supervision of the banking system needs to be regulated legally and it is even imperative that the Bank of Slovenia, as a bank supervisor, will do everything in order not to face new recapitalisations of banks with tax money in the future. The emphasis on the responsibilities of supervisors is therefore quite appropriate, as we believe that the creation of a bank hole was largely due to the lack of supervision and action of the Bank of Slovenia in the past on business banks, in particular on systemic state banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u9	The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, a magi for him. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In May 2014, we discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act. The then-present proponent was not the government as expected. We have been discussing the proposal submitted by the SDS Group today. And it is interesting that almost a year ago they proposed the same or almost the same solutions as today. Let's take a look at some facts. With the adoption of the Bank of Slovenia Act on 25 June 1991, the Bank of Slovenia was established, thus becoming the State Central Bank. Its governing bodies and even the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia are independent, as is the law. It means that, under the Banka Slovenije Act, they are not bound by the decisions, positions and instructions of the state or any authority, nor are they to be addressed in accordance with instructions or guidelines. As from 1 January 2007, the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank of the Bank of Slovenia are also in line with the Treaty establishing the Eurosystem. These contracts and statutes must be fully implemented by the Bank of Slovenia in its operation. The core functions of the Bank of Slovenia are to monitor the financial system and to create and implement the conditions for a stable banking system, the efficient operation of banks and the security of deposits in banks and savings banks. Why such an introduction to the basic functioning of the Bank of Slovenia? Simple. Everything written down clearly states that the amendments to the legislation governing the operation of the Bank of Slovenia cannot be dealt with in a partial and so little way. Well, let's see what the proposers want with the law. First time. More comprehensive reports, even when it comes to banks receiving state aid. Another time. Different arrangements for working relations, namely with regard to salaries and appointments of governors and vice-governors, maximum number of repetitions of mandates and the introduction of possibilities for the dismissal of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Third time. The enlargement of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, where, in addition to the Minister of Finance and the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, they would also give this authority to the representative of the opposition, namely to the President of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. Fourth time. Competence of the Court of Auditors with regard to the supervision of the regularity of the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. Fifth. The possibility of disclosing confidential information to banks that have received state aid and would like to obtain this from the bodies of the National Assembly. As last year, the National Assembly also forwarded this proposal to the European Central Bank, which is part of the Bank of Slovenia. The European Central Bank has not assessed positively as it did last year. More. In recent weeks, the European Central Bank has also publicly called on the government to ensure the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Independence, however, does not provide for the proposed change. More. The proposal for the resolution of the members of the decision-making bodies of the Bank of Slovenia could have a strong impact on independence. The Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank makes it particularly impossible for the Government or Parliament to decide discreetly on the discharge of the Governor. Would it be possible, given that the European Central Bank has issued a similar opinion last year, to propose an amendment to the Statutes of the European Central Bank and the European System of Central Banks? This would create a basis for a possible third opinion on a possible third proposal of the same or similar law to be positive. As for the more comprehensive report, the European Central Bank also expressed a negative opinion. The requirements, as proposed, would affect the institutional independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the independence of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. So it's the independence that has to be ensured. It is also not too much to point out that the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia have repeatedly stressed that they are easily providing the information and information that the National Assembly would need. Finally, they showed this not long ago when they provided more than 6,000 pages of material on measures and methodologies at the time of the resolution of the banking system. Let us ask ourselves how many Members have actually examined the documentation. In its opinion, the European Central Bank highlighted some other technical aspects of the issue of more efficient reports, which it would not now list, but are of course equally important and should certainly be taken into account when it is possible to require more comprehensive reporting from the Bank of Slovenia. Moreover, the European Central Bank has not adopted a very positive solution to the Bank of Slovenia’s review of the regularity of operations by the Court of Auditors, although this option has not completely excluded it is necessary to include additional safeguards to ensure institutional independence for the Bank of Slovenia, to define the scope of control and to demarcate powers with independent external auditors. At the end of the day, I'd like to say a few more words about bank secrecy. If anything, then your respectable applicants are consistent with your requests for disclosure of classified information, irrespective of the fact that the Constitutional Court has already given itself, and this is negative. Notwithstanding the fact that the European Central Bank has already spoken, and this is negative. Your persistence deserves public praise, as no matter what rejections and arguments, why disclosure of classified information is not possible, you are still insisting. You also insist, irrespective of the fact that such arrangements do not comply with European directives. Your Honor! We have already rejected a similar, almost identical proposal in May 2014. The Alliance's Group will not support this proposal for amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act for the reasons I have presented in more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members, the Secretary of State is a very nice greeting! In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the proposed amendments to the law are the way to lower the reputation of Slovenia, with proposals that violate the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and in some ways eliminate the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. We are not in favour of this knowledge, and we are convinced by the opinion of the European Central Bank of 2. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This opinion points to the fact that the drafter of the Banka Slovenije Bill somehow wants to regulate the area of the central regulator, in particular individual areas such as the Governor and the duration of the mandate, the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, by extending its members and so on. Based on the opinion of the European Central Bank quoted above, the draft law itself is too much of an institution which is extremely important for the operation of ensuring the independent implementation of monetary policy. Certainly, the working body of the National Assembly cannot detect violations of the law instead of the court. It is inappropriate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia to be dismissed on the basis of a discretionary assessment of the working body of the National Assembly. With this bill, it is an attempt at the political subordination of the Bank of Slovenia and a decision on the powers that can be determined only by the Court, not by Members. This is also recalled by the European Central Bank. However, we agree with the opinion of the Government, which does not support the addition of Article 40 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which provides that the Governor of Banka Slovenije could relieve the Director or Deputy Director of the Department for no reason, since it considers that the current regime is the most appropriate way to protect both employees, managers and employers, and this is the Bank of Slovenia. With regard to reporting to the National Assembly, it should be pointed out that we have just had a meeting of the National Assembly and that the Governor has reported on current matters. With regard to the transmission of confidential information to the National Assembly, we believe that this area should be regulated in accordance with national rules on the protection of confidential data, as well as the rules governing this area at the level of the European Union, and in accordance with the opinion of the European Central Bank. The proposed law tabled in this part is also not in line with the previous opinion. For the reasons given above, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will vote against the proposal because, according to the assessment of the European Central Bank and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it would intervene in the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. We assess the need to maintain the credibility of the country, including in relation to the European regulator for the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are constantly reminding ourselves of the controversial developments in the banking system and we are working to clear up any irregularities and to properly sanction the irregularities identified. As it has been exposed many times in recent months, the second recovery of the banking system has cost us €5 billion. The reasons for the necessary recovery are in particular the granting of loans to companies and individuals unable to repay them and the granting of loans on friendly terms. Bank administrations led the banks in a non-professional and uneconomic manner and the supervisory authorities did not carry out their tasks. The Bank of Slovenia, which has to carry out the tasks of the regulator effectively, independently, professionally and in accordance with the applicable legislation, has cancelled as the regulator of the banking system. It is the responsibility of the banks to operate in accordance with the legislation, and therefore it is the responsibility of the administrations and supervisory councils of banks for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. When the issue of control and legislation in this area was addressed in 2013 in the European Parliament, Members of the European Central Bank requested that it clarify how the European Central Bank would ensure transparency and accountability in the work of supervisors before the legislation on European banking supervision was approved. Since the new supervisory system carries a large part of its competence from national level to EU level, the European Members requested adequate supervision of the European Central Bank. This led to the conclusion of an agreement between the European Parliament and the European Central Bank to allow the European Parliament to have access to a wide range of information, of course with the appropriate protection of data confidentiality. In recent weeks, we have had a strong media response to the statements made by the owners of decommissioned shares and subordinated bonds of banks that the Bank of Slovenia, in the execution of the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, has prepared data on capital mismatches in a way that demonstrates negative capital, which was the basis for the European Commission's decision on State aid. Today, it is not clear the methodology or more precisely the input data used in the capital adequacy calculations and were the basis for the deletion. In addition, information on Banka Slovenije's involvement in bank negotiations on the resolution of individual debtors appears in the media in recent days. All of the above justifiably undermines confidence in the regulator of our banking system. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, with the proposed amendment, we want to increase the transparency of the operation and establish the democratic responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its organs, the Governor and the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije forms the same reports for the National Assembly as for the general public, which means that the responsibility and reporting of the National Assembly with the general public is equal. While the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 152 that Slovenia has a central bank which is independent in its operation and which responds directly to the National Assembly. The Bank of Slovenia Act provides, however, in Article 26(1), that, irrespective of other laws of the Bank of Slovenia, it shall report its work exclusively to the National Assembly and that those reports shall be at least half a year. We propose to supplement this Article with a provision that the report should be comprehensive and that, if necessary, it also includes confidential information and information. In this case, it must comply with the legislation governing the protection of confidential data. The obligation to report promptly to the National Assembly is further laid down if the Bank of Slovenia considers that the Bank or the Custodian needs State aid. The National Assembly is the one that adopts the state budget, which is why it is extremely important. The current law on Banka Slovenije provides, inter alia, that the Council of Banka Slovenije regulates the rights and obligations of working relations for members of Banka Slovenije, so the members of the Council of Banka Slovenije determine their own remuneration and other rights from the working relationship, which we find controversial. The public has also been repeatedly appalled by the high remuneration of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. We therefore expect this issue to be better addressed. It also seems unethical to us that the current Bank of Slovenia law stipulates that the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia find themselves incompatible with the performance of their functions. We therefore propose that the external auditor should carry out the examination of the incompatibilities of the performance of the function. A representative of the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for Finance and Monetary Policy and the Minister responsible for Finance may participate in the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, but they shall not have the right to vote. This means that a representative of the Government and a representative of the ruling coalition may participate in the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, but the representative of the opposition cannot participate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the participation of the opposition representative at the Council of the Bank of Slovenia meetings would increase the transparency and responsibility of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which is why we propose this in the proposed law. The draft law also proposes to amend the provisions on the number of terms of office of the Governor and Vice-Governors and to amend the appointment and discharge of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The governor and vice-governors could be re-appointed no more than once. The dismissal of a member of the Council could be proposed by the President of the Republic, and it could be decided by the National Assembly, but not by the ordinary but by the two-thirds majority of all Members. The two-thirds majority would also appoint members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Information on Banka Slovenije's non-economic, inefficient and ineffective business has appeared in the public on several occasions, so we propose that the operation be revised by an external audit company chosen by the National Assembly. The obligation to protect confidential bank data is often used as an excuse to conceal the wrong decisions of bank management, which may sometimes be at the border of legality. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also propose a provision that the obligation to protect confidential data does not apply to data relating to banks and savings banks that have received State aid, or that the bank has been subject to measures under the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. And this data requires a National Assembly, a working body or an investigative commission of the National Assembly. With this in mind, the National Assembly, which has to make important decisions regarding the resolution of problems in the Slovenian banking system, will finally have the opportunity to obtain appropriate data on the state and liability of the situation. With the proposed measures, we want to increase transparency and establish Banka Slovenije's responsibility and, indirectly, help to restore confidence in the regulator of the banking system, and we will, of course, support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, distinguished secretary and co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, have a good day. Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. We have already held several debates on the outstanding issue of the found irregularities in the operation of the Bank of Slovenia and the rehabilitation of the bank hole in this Parliament, but the topic is still topical precisely because of the fact that the competent are still not responsible for their actions. Without responsibility, there is no progress. We can't just end the story until we've removed the consequences, so we also spend most of our time looking at past actions and forgetting to create the conditions to move forward. As a result, accountability also implies an insight into transparent business, whether it is a private enterprise or a state institution. The rules are the same. The most important provision in this amendment is access to confidential information available to the Bank of Slovenia. Why? Because the professional and even the general public are still wondering what is going on with the taxpayer's money. We call on the Bank of Slovenia to disclose all the data, analyses and procedures that have led to the enormous sum necessary for the rehabilitation of banks. Modesty and incomplete reports, according to the majority, will not suffice. And we look at the average population for a moment, not just those in leading positions. In the Desus Group, we are constantly receiving comments from concerned pensioners who care for every cent of their still-deserved pensions. But here we are talking about billions that are magically disappearing without seeing why and how. It is in these billions that additional amounts for pensions and new jobs are hidden. Sociala suffers from bank recovery, and that is a fact that cannot be disputed. Therefore, it is more than reasonable to ask for information to reveal why this is the case. However, we note that when it comes to confidential information, we must be extremely careful. Surely not everyone can access them just like that. Abuse is a concept that weighs transparency very quickly. Since this is only a general discussion, in the Desus Group, we estimate that in the case of further legislative proceedings, the most complex provision will be the provision allowing the Bank of Slovenia to report more widely to the National Assembly, in particular due to the needs for smooth operation. This would mean that access to data has a competent parent working body, in particular when it deals with matters directly related to decision-making on State ownership, such as consent on privatisation, consent on recapitalisation, audit reports, parliamentary investigations, etc. Quality and timely information is intended to help facilitate and more reasoned decision-making in the adoption of legislative procedures. From the national and European legal order, the Bank of Slovenia must maintain the role of a national banking regulator which ensures effective, independent and professional performance. A mandatory part of the tasks to be carried out is also reporting to the National Assembly on its functioning. The latter is the subject of today's need for an amendment, namely the need to supplement Article 26, which speaks of Banka Slovenije reporting. This increases the possibility for the National Assembly to access the comprehensive report without delay when the Bank of Slovenia requests State aid for the stability of the banking system. In this case, the Bank of Slovenia will have to submit a report to the National Assembly, which will be designed to provide concrete arguments on the reasons, measures and, lastly, the role and responsibility of the bank’s management authorities for the situation. In the Desus Group, we estimate that it would be more appropriate to supplement the provisions on this site to ensure that Banka Slovenije is subject to a mandatory annual review of the regularity of its operations. We believe that it would be much better to regulate these in the Law on the Court of Auditors itself. In its opinion, the European Central Bank was also critical to the general principle of the personal independence of the Bank of Slovenia. The Government also notes in its opinion that the proposals of the proposed amendments to this Act affect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. It is precisely because of these facts that we will reject in the Desus Group the possibility that the legislative process will continue. However, we expect the Government to bring a law amendment to the legislative process as soon as possible, which will fully and systematically regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u18	Mr. President, the well-respected High Council! In the early February days, when nebula were spoiled around the rehabilitation of the banking system, all the public, interested and political, demanded quick answers and rapid action. But not the first and not the others to a satisfactory degree until today. Something has to be done. We also agreed with this when Members and Members made a request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the basis of which a methodology for conducting stress tests was to be disclosed. The previous sessions also adopted recommendations to the Bank of Slovenia to prepare a comprehensive report on the causes of the capital deficit of the banks examined, its role as a banking regulator of the efficiency of the State-owned corporate governance system and the way in which the consequences of the capital failure of business banks are addressed. But before we received the first explanations by the Bank regulator in the National Assembly, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has already submitted a proposal for a amendment to the Bank of Slovenia. As has already been said, it is a law that was recognized by the National Assembly a good year ago as inappropriate. It is now slightly changed and the fact that it is a hybrid is known in the text itself, the introduction and the law are not fully harmonised. A little quick, it was all done. Some solutions have been put forward in the bill, which will not prevent or significantly affect the possible recurrence of bank gambling, but also solutions that could prevent or at least affect the crisis, and the fact is that these solutions should be coordinated in advance both at the level of our economic policy, is said with the Government and, in particular, with the European Central Bank. Incomprehensible solutions include the participation of a representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances at meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and require that the National Assembly of the Governors of the Bank of Slovenia and four vice-governors be appointed by a two-thirds majority. There can be a crisis here if there is more division in Parliament. A reasonable but uncoordinated one is said to be in fact able to support it, only to be coordinated, is the proposal that 15 Members and Members, not the President of the Assembly, Mrs Šimenko, but 15 Members and Members, may propose the discharge of the Governor or Vice-Governor or all Vice-Governors in this version of the law. This would, of course, mean a clear definition of their responsibilities and reduce the likelihood that they would lead or agree to such reckless projects as the rehabilitation of the banking system in 2013. The fact that the bill was written quickly shows the arrangements under which the initiative for the discharge of the Governor and the Vice-Governor shall be adopted or rejected by the working body of the National Assembly only by the votes of the majority of the members, while the same candidates for the appointment themselves shall propose a two-thirds majority decision at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The absolute two-thirds majority of Members offered by the candidates for appointment of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia are to be stressed that this does not apply to the appointment of Constitutional Judges, nor to the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this law is about a pianist action, and we can partly explain it for an attempt to do something, whatever it may be. Unfortunately, the response of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that anything needs to be done, although poorly, is not the right answer. In the Social Democrats Group, we therefore call on the Government to expect it to be more decisive in its further steps in this area, in particular not to leave it to the sales wave where heavily recapitalised companies are sold than at a fair with a price tag. We will not support the Social Democrats for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Above all, it was interesting to hear the views of the Group of Members, in particular the Group of Members of the Coalition. In all of the coalition's parliamentary groups, both the parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus, we were able to come to the realization that in some way you are aware of the issues of the Bank of Slovenia law and that in one way you expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare amended or amended legislation, the Bank of Slovenia law, in order to make it clear, as was the case with your views, that it will increase independence and primarily responsibility. For this reason, I can explain that you will object only to the proposed law, the amendment, because of the fact that it was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We know that according to the legislative procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today this is the first reading, and in the case of support for this work, with some common powers both the coalition and the opposition could help make the Bank of Slovenia law better. Undoubtedly, we cannot forget the words that the Mira Cerar government has stated in its appointment to expect the opposition to participate. Today, however, after six months of this government, any proposal made by the Slovenian Democratic Party or by any other opposition party has been rejected by this coalition. There was not one step to say, "Look, this law we assess is appropriate, but certain corrections are needed." And I agree or I am convinced that quality legislation in Slovenia can only be obtained through the participation of the opposition and the coalition. And in some ways, the coalition is vehemently rejecting it. The modern center's client has taken a stand, I don't know, less than three minutes. I really don't understand that, on the one hand, you are aware that there is a need for change, and you have here at the table the possibility of cooperation and the amendment of this law, and you reject it. Last but not least, in February this year, the current Prime Minister, Dr Miro Cerar, expressed the opinion that a change of law was necessary in the exchange of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Dearly respected, in the SDS we are convinced that the proposed amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act do not in any way reduce its independence and that the opinion of the European Central Bank is not as negative as those changes are being tried by some coalition parties, and on the other hand the representatives of the Ministry of Finance or the government. And look, I am personally convinced that there is no doubt that the independence of the Bank of Slovenia must be maintained as an institution itself, but if one institution is independent, it does not mean that this institution does not need control. And here I think we have come to a step in Slovenia where certain obstacles that some, I have a feeling, deliberately set, even skip. The independence of the institution does not yet mean that an institution must not have control. And this control must be quality and, above all, independent. And all the changes proposed by the proposed law to the SDS do not reduce the independence of the Bank of Slovenia in one step. However, we are convinced that these changes can allow for better quality control, more transparent operation and certainly that the Bank of Slovenia, which is also its key task, its mission, will provide, in particular, one way to protect bank savers and, on the other hand, to ensure the legitimate functioning of these banks and to improve the outcome itself. Who can be responsible for the fact that in December 2013 with tax money, for the second time in the history of Slovenia, we had to rehabilitate a banking system of more than €5 billion? We have always wondered whether the Bank of Slovenia has fulfilled all the tasks it must perform. I'm sure if you fulfilled all your tasks, you wouldn't have to get to a five billion-dollar hole. The question is, of course, whether this number is also definitive. I'm sure you don't, and the taxpayers will have to patch up the bank holes again. And to this day, not one has claimed responsibility. In fact, Italy probably also faced the same problem in 2005, Antonio Fazio, and other countries. And there was a lot of dust. I think that there is an opportunity here for us Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today to say that we are aware of the situation and that the Bank of Slovenia Act needs to be changed. And this is part of the changes proposed by the SDS. In view of the fact that the law is in the first reading, I am sure that even with the participation of the coalition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia could come up with better quality legislation, which would, in particular, give a guardian to taxpayers that they would not actually or would know what led to the outflow of money from the budget for the rehabilitation of the banks themselves. And in not one single solution that we are proposing, we are not reducing the independence of this bank. What is the issue for the coalition that Banka Slovenije should report to the National Assembly six months ago and that this report should also include this information in the report in case of any confidential information? I would like to know why you object to the fact that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia could also be represented by the Commission for the supervision of public finances as a representative of the opposition without a vote. Where are your reservations? Do you want to hide something, or do you want to actually, as a coalition, as a government, you also control the Governor of Banka Slovenije or the World of Banka Slovenije. They now have the opportunity to participate in the finance minister and the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I would like to know how many times the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has attended the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Does it assess that there is such a secret, why the representative of the opposition or the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances should not be present at such a meeting? We also propose to amend the number of mandates. I think it's necessary to do this so that someone can't be the lifetime Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. And in particular to ensure that the bank operates more effectively so that the Governor of Banka Slovenije can set up his own team. This means, discharge and appoints directors or deputy directors of departments in the Bank of Slovenia. Here I would like to repeat the words spoken by the former Governor of Banka Slovenije on the Commission of Inquiry when he said that he actually had his hands tied in the discharge or appointment of Directors of Directorates within the Bank of Slovenia. Notwithstanding the fact that his trust in certain directors of these departments was undermined, the Board of the Bank did not allow him to replace these directors. Finally, the Governor is responsible for the operation of this bank. I propose that if you follow only the proposal made by the Government not to support this law – these arguments that the government has put forward, which do not support these changes proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, are not strong enough for me – you will once again review in the parliamentary groups what it actually proposes and what changes are included in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u21	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law, which we are considering, brings mainly two novelties, provides more information on the operation of the Bank of Slovenia and brings more control over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. I think these are two measures that are going in a positive direction. And it is difficult for any of the Members who advocate transparency to oppose such measures. This house, this assembly, this Parliament has the right to know how tax money is spent. I am convinced that if we are responsible Members and if we decide how certain money will be spent, then we also have the right to know what and how it will be spent. In the event of the banking system being rehabilitated and in connection with banks, there have been many times in recent times that Members should not have known why we had to spend some money on a particular matter. Everything was hiding behind the so-called bank secrecy. If I'm speaking in parables, then I would say that there is a banking system in this rehabilitation, bank secrecy and the protection of all this data, that Members should not have known all this information, something like that, that your car is broken down, you're going to fix this car, but the auto mechanic doesn't tell you what parts he's replaced you because it's bank secrecy. But you're the mercenary, you're the one who's gonna pay for this repair, so it's imperative that you know what you're paying for. The same principle must also apply in the case of banking secrecy when it comes to State aid. It is hard to imagine why, in this case, such a specialty, when we have other areas in the country where classified information is operated and used. For example, one such commission is also the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, where we regularly operate with confidential information and, of course, Members are also bound in certain ways to treat these data properly when we detect abuses, and we also make these things public. I think we should apply similar principles in the case of banks and the banking system itself. It is right that we Members are informed of the details, of the details of what certain money will be spent on, of what it will be for a specific rehabilitation. If all matters are clean and non-problematic, then it is known how these data should be handled and protected. But if things are criminal, alarming, then it is our duty to make these things known to the public, because it is the only way to prevent such excesses and irregularities from happening again and again, because otherwise old stories can be repeated over and over again. Take a look at the example of the banking system being rehabilitated. This is the second time we've repeated this resolution of the banking system. Obviously, we didn't learn anything from the first mistake recovery. I guess we didn't talk enough about these things. Because otherwise, it's hard to imagine why one and the same mistakes would have been repeated twice. One of the important steps that this law brings forward is certainly more information about the operation of the Bank of Slovenia itself, as it requires the Bank of Slovenia to complete its reports with certain confidential information and information. I absolutely support this because it will help us to be better informed and make decisions on the basis of better information. This law also provides limited banking secrecy in the case of State aid. Here, too, it seems necessary for us to devote huge billions to the rehabilitation of the banking system, to know what we had to spend these billions on. This is one aspect of the positive elements that this bill brings. Another important aspect, however, is greater control. I was surprised when we received various letters from the European Commission and some other European institutions, where senior European officials showed their fear that Parliament was overreacting to the Bank of Slovenia and that the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia was threatened. I think their concern was completely overstated. It requires information and clarification cannot be a reduction in autonomy. Anyone who understands their autonomy by doing whatever he wants, whatever he likes, and does not have to answer to anyone, report to anyone, then it is not autonomy, then it is something else that could be compared more to lawlessness, the wild west and more. If someone is autonomous and has a peaceful clean conscience, he can easily report on the things that Member individuals ask the other interested public. Therefore, there is no need for fear of any kind of interference with autonomy. The Council of Banka Slovenije is a key and important body in the Banka Slovenije system itself. This law brings some news that I think would only improve the functioning of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, especially control over the operation and would also increase transparency. The element that I like in this law is definitely that after the new Council of the Bank of Slovenia meetings a representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances could also be present, where according to our Rules the majority of the opposition is present. A representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy may attend the meetings of the Council of Banka Slovenije in the current regulation, where, if you look at history, he has an absolute majority of the coalition and the President. If, on the one hand, the Council of Banka Slovenije can participate in these meetings, then it would also be in the interests of balance or, if you want, honesty in order to balance this representation properly with the opposition, so that both sides of this Parliament – both coalition and opposition – could be represented in the Council of Banka Slovenije. It seems to me that this proposal is completely harmless and can contribute to making the functioning of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia more transparent and better. In addition, it seems clear to me that procedures for the discharge of members of the Bank of Slovenia are being laid down, although Mr Križanič has pointed out certain inconsistencies in the sense that the appointment requires a two-thirds majority, a simple majority is needed for the resolution. But, you know, these things can easily be corrected in further consideration. Today it is a first reading, a start and these comments can be taken into account further if you want to take a step forward if you want to improve things. But if you're looking for elements to reject this thing, you can find all sorts of things. Another thing that is at least non-problem to me and should not be an intervention in the independence of the Bank of Slovenia so that their work can also be audited by the Court of Auditors. I find it difficult to understand the logic of those who say that this would be an excessive intervention in the independence of the Bank of Slovenia if they allowed the Court of Auditors to revise their work while at the same time the Bank of Slovenia could practically order anyone, including an external contractor, if it wanted to carry out an audit of their operations. This isn't an intervention in autonomy, but if these things were done by the Court of Auditors, it would be. These things just don't work out for me. It seems to me that we are talking about an important topic, but that many of you are taking it too easily, if you, this is an opposition proposal, we will reject it with a quick hand. I think that, however, this is a great opportunity to discuss these issues, to learn from past mistakes and to try to improve the system, so that in the event of future crises it would work better. That's the whole point. Here we should have common goals and together look for a solution, not an old coalition opposition habit, if the proposal comes from the opposition, it should be rejected, to refer to some small details. I urge you to simply give the green light to this law at first reading, but be a little innovative, bold, and then, at second reading, amendment and correct it at your own discretion, because you have a majority. I know this is a little more difficult work, but in terms of parliamentaryism it is definitely better, more effective. Things are running faster and easier if you accept the opposition's proposals to provide you with some kind of incentive, which you will then further correct. As I said, there have been many mistakes in the past, and these mistakes need to be corrected. I am not saying that all that is in this law is worth gold, but, in my opinion, it can definitely represent a step forward and it would be illogical for such an initiative and such a step to be rejected in the very beginning. If you turn things around just a few years ago, then you can find out that strange things were happening when the former Governor of the Bank of Slovenia claimed that everything was fine in 2012 and then everything changed in one year. Obviously, everything is not going well with our system, so it would be worth supplementing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u23	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. In my debate, I will focus mainly on Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the proposal. In fact, I would point out one thing when it was said earlier that independence does not mean that there is no need for control or that there is no control in this way. As far as Banka Slovenije is concerned, I think that control is established here, as far as the European Central Bank is concerned, then we have external auditors who review the business, we have a National Assembly. In recent months, we have also seen how this works within the National Assembly, given how many plenary meetings we had here and also on the committees where we requested clarifications. I think we've got the bulk or practically all of these answers somehow. We have also received very extensive and comprehensive materials. Practically whatever we wanted, it came to us, we could look at it, define it, and somehow take a position on what we think about it. However, part of it, as has already been said in the introduction, which is the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors, might make sense to look into the Court of Auditors’ Law, and what are those powers of the Court to arrange for a part of its control there. As far as the Bank of Slovenia is concerned, I think it is necessary to pursue it in some way, especially by maintaining some independence, expertise and the power of the regulator. So if we're going, we're going in the direction that all these properties are somehow being strengthened. As far as this proposal is concerned, I would point out yet another point that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia is, in the first place, an expert body, is not a political body. I also see part of this proposal in such a way as to allow for the politicisation of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which I do not think is right. I believe that this was by no means meant by the proposal, but this is one observation, and I think that such a solution could actually, let's say, political pressure or political action there might strengthen. If we go to see, say, Article 6, which foresees a two-thirds majority in the confirmation of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, I agree that there is certainly a need to look, the right position, when it comes to these proposals and so on, to seek a broader consensus, is that we reach more than half or maybe two-thirds of the majority even. I don't know, otherwise it may be a slightly different case, but in the case of the Governor of Banka Slovenije there was consensus 77:7 in the votes, which is very good, but there is no such requirement that there should be such a large majority to accept it. I kind of support that efforts to ensure that the coalition is looking for this support every time, but not that this is mandatory, especially because I think that in some sensitive moments there could be some additional political aggravation, a political crisis and usually these issues are most important just when Slovenia is in difficult times. If we go further to Article 7, as regards the fact that the National Assembly would find it incompatible to act as members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, then in Article 8 of this second paragraph, which also deals with the initiative for the resolution of a member of the Bank of Slovenia who would be appointed by 15 Members, then these Members would also give some description of the infringement described, and would also provide evidence of a violation of the law and so on. This somehow does not seem appropriate to me because I fear that there will be frequent political lynchings of members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and others who are employed in the Bank of Slovenia. In this way, there would be some extra, for my understanding, unacceptable pressures. I think that those who are there are working professionally, and by constantly dragging them into the National Assembly and demanding them, so lately, or part of them has been fair, and part of them may be a little overly overly overly, they are also somewhat hampered by their work, by what they have to do, it is right to supervise and perform those tasks. As far as the task of the National Assembly is concerned, our first task is the legislative function. This branch of authority is us. One of the specific additional tasks, I see mainly the problems that have arisen in the introduction, is that the legislation has not been prepared or completed to this extent in order to prevent this. Now, however, the National Assembly will correct its powers and work in such a way that it will now, in a mild sense, think about what law enforcement authorities should do, what the courts should do, what the police should do, what the National Investigation Office should do, and it seems to me that this is somehow inappropriate, because in this way we are somehow diverting attention from what was initially wrong, is this original sin, which is poorly prepared legislation. So I think our first and foremost concern is that legislation will be prepared as it should be. Here we can see, I think that today is the third treatment of the Banking Act, after maybe the Law on the Court of Auditors and so on, where these matters can be improved, and by no means that we will now somehow get into a situation where we are in a position to better know how to do the work carried out by the NPU, through various investigations, so that we know how to do the job better than those who are qualified, for example, prosecutors and so on. I would really go back here, turn to our work, and let us start by doing these things in such a way that the legislation will act primarily preventively, that next time we will not have to recapitalise the bank with additional billions, and then we will again intervene in the work of those bodies that we have prepared for them to do their work as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u25	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get ready for Dr. Franz the Crusader. Before that, the proposer of mags has a word. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for saying so. From this discussion, colleague Bozič was repeatedly informed about the politicisation of the Bank of Slovenia. I think that if the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to amend this law in appointing that a two-thirds majority is needed instead of the ordinary majority, I think that this is the only way to reduce the politicisation, since this makes it impossible for a government to actually appoint a governor on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. But we are committed primarily to the widest possible consensus and broadest possible support. We are talking about Banka Slovenije, we are talking about an independent institution that is important for the operation of banks in the Republic of Slovenia, which is important for the protection of savers after these banks, we are not talking about politicisation. We are reducing this politicization to a greater degree because it is likely that a broader consensus is needed if you need a two-thirds majority or if you need a simple majority. And I personally believe that Banka Slovenije is one of the most important institutions. If we look at the history of our young country, we can see that, I don't know, taxpayers have lost a lot of money because of the banking system. And I don't think there's anything right with the regulator if you're saving a bank with 5 billion euros at the expense of taxpayers. And that's another bank rehabilitation at the expense of taxpayers. I do not think that, with your statements, my dear colleague Christmas, we can agree that we are trying to give a political influence to the Bank of Slovenia if we are trying to spread this matter as widely as possible.: instead of the general majority, the two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u27	Replica, Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u28	I would just explain the part in which I might have been a little misunderstood. My position was in this direction that with a two-thirds majority there would be greater pressure, which does not necessarily lead to a better result. In the existing solution available, I would like to reiterate that the previous Governor has adopted 77 votes and the majority you are proposing is 60. And my position was just going in this direction, that although this is not prescribed, on the one hand it puts less pressure on those who have to reach such a broad consensus, it says even more than 60, and on the other hand that this matter works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u29	The word has magic. Andrey Shirtzelj, as I said, prepare Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! If we advocate control of the Bank of Slovenia, that means responsibility. Why? This is because article 152 of the Constitution states that the Bank of Slovenia corresponds to the National Assembly. How does it answer why it answers, and what does the National Assembly have in its hands to say that this control can be effective enough? I think there's a toothless tiger in this National Assembly. Toothless tigers because we have often found that the National Assembly has no instruments, has no methods, does not have what every supervisor would need, and every supervisor needs to be able to inspect the operations of an entity, let alone the Bank of Slovenia. The National Assembly has accepted Banka Slovenije reports in one way or another. These reports were public — like everyone else. And he didn't actually have any methods, no leverage to ask for anything else. However, the Bank of Slovenia has worked and is doing the following. It supervises business banks by no longer being a monetary issuer because it is part of the European Central Bank and by finding that the capital adequacy of the individual bank is inadequate, it issues a decision, a decision, a legal act and instructs the founder to recapitalise the banks. And in Slovenia, it is only by force of state that this is the most common country. And the Governor of Banka Slovenije sends a letter to the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, ordering: recapitalise the bank. This is what the Bank of Slovenia does. In fact, she has also done so in the last six, seven years. And the Minister of Finance has asked the Government to take so much and so much government money, so much and so much taxpayers' money, and recapitalise banks. Then the governor and the finance minister come in front of the cameras, just like they came in late 2013, and they say the numbers, tell us how everything is okay and how it actually happens then. Banks of Slovenia in this regard, sorry, no one controls. Moreover, neither the Court of Auditors has reviewed to date either the regularity or economics or the economics of the Bank of Slovenia on behalf of so-called independence. In fact, independence can mean irresponsibility here. And, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, after all, we adopt laws on tax increases, on how taxpayers have to pay more, and then the governor writes a decision, a decision, anything, sends it to the government and the government to give that money. For the so-called stability of the financial system and the stability of the financial system, this means that people's deposits must be safe. And then these people, once over taxes, pay their deposits, and the second time they have them there, they've lost them a little bit because the banks have given them so much and so much credit that they haven't been paid back. And there's no one to keep an eye on it. And I am surprised by the opinion of the Government, which on behalf of which I do not know what, independence, expertise and so on, defends such independence – in fact, I do not know what the threshold here is for the Bank of Slovenia to be controlled, which is in accordance with the Constitution. But there are simply no mechanisms, methods, the National Assembly has no leverage to actually control the Bank of Slovenia. And here, when a colleague says Christmas, because then they have an auditor, the auditor writes an opinion. However, they do not have the Court of Auditors and the Bank of Slovenia is today the only institution that does not have a supervisor. It may have the European Central Bank, which is this supervisor. But Banka Slovenije is, if you like, an exhibition of the European Central Bank and works as instructed by the European Central Bank. And the one who's in charge can't be a supervisor at the same time. This can't happen in Slovenia. Even if someone is in Frankfurt, the one who orders something to be done cannot be a supervisor. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it's very logical. The National Assembly is the one here who simply devours everything and here, of course, we can talk, yes, and the primary role of the National Assembly is to adopt professional rules and not know what regulations. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, the Banking Act had 42 pages and 125 amendments. Was this professional, colleague Christmas, when you advocate that the National Assembly focus on this? Two days ago, or three days ago, or one week ago, we also voted on a law that had 135 amendments because there was no legal agreement between the two services and because the services did not work as they were supposed to do at the Ministry of Finance. Don't throw sand in your eyes and talk like that once, and then just like it actually does. Let's be consistent about this. And then let the government reject a law that is unprofessionally prepared. And then let the budget reject, the financial outcome of the 2013 budget, because there are also errors within which the Court of Auditors has determined, I don't know, 10 years. At that time, it is the discipline of the SMC when a government representative or government representatives order how to vote and give an opinion on how to vote. And then the whole party votes like the government says. Let's just be so fair to ourselves here and admit our own mistakes. Here I do not understand that, on behalf of now so-called independence, some status of the Bank of Slovenia is actually being defended, which is completely without control. This is about increasing the control of Banka Slovenije, which is not actually available today, by coming, of course, with five billion, that it has to be paid and then it burns up here, so to speak. In fact, I am surprised by this connection between the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the executor of what Banka Slovenije says on behalf of taxpayer money. I call on you to reconsider before the vote, whether it might be wise to put the law into a second reading, adjust it, actually make it so that the National Assembly will still have some leverage to oversee the Bank of Slovenia and control the use of taxpayer money. That's what this is about. It's not who's governor, it's not who's governor, it's how it's supposed to be controlled and so on. It's about controlling the spending of taxpayers' money. Five billion. And that's what this is all about. In fact, I call once again for you to consider supporting the law in the first reading and, in fact, to adjust it in such a way that the National Assembly will have some leverage to control. For the Court of Auditors was now of the opinion that, after that Law on the Court of Auditors, as long as the former President was President, he was not competent to supervise the Bank of Slovenia. This is also an attack on the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Hello?Oh, my God! Come on, come on! This is about actually leaving an institution completely unsupervised, so that it can work with the taxpayer's money what it wants. To date, the Court of Auditors has not reviewed the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, nor the legality or economy. Whose business is that? I still think the Court of Auditors can do that. And here again is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it must not do so, and this is now an attack on independence. What, though, is the attack when Banka Slovenije demands so much and so much money on taxpayers' money?Oh, my God! That's not what we're asking here. And once again, please let us support this law, let us move on with this law, and let us ensure that the National Assembly has more leverage to control.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u31	The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, get Mrs Urska Ban ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you, President. Dear High Council! What opens up in this law and is relevant is the procedure for requiring the responsibility of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The law makes it pretty clear. If this need is recognized, then, of course, it would be possible to adopt a law in this form and then to correct it strongly, also to harmonise it with the ECB and move on. Of course, this is a matter of decision in the wider circle and we probably cannot make such a decision in plenary here in any way. The fact is that there is a problem, the fact is that the need for this responsibility is great, the fact is that everyone, including the layman, sees it in different ways. We will pay 130 million euros from the budget this year, at the same time delete learning aid, insurance, insurance subsidies for those who are intensive farmers and are more exposed to weather conditions and so on. So we're saving up a bunch of things, but at the same time, we've spent 130 million from the current budget on interest. One part as bonds issued, so that the state pays only interest, the other part, and two thirds had to actually borrow and now the interest is repaid. This first part is 30 million, was reported yesterday by the finance minister, and when a bank sells itself cheaply, let's say a third of it gets it, 10 million will get this bank, you know what I'm talking about, 10 million will get it bought for change, get it out of the budget and literally crow out, say the English, will push those people who actually need social or development assistance. Science has halved over the last three years and, over time, this exports, which are not surprising, are the result of development policies at different levels, will no longer work. Certain people think that this has only happened, that it is just happening, even in some debates I notice that it is still happening, it is improving, the results for this quarter will be good. But sooner or later this will stop, because with this bank recovery it's like a polyp sucked and, of course, now you should react. Since I have time, I can comment a little bit more, the attitude of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has seen this pathology or whatever you call it, is interesting, but now it reacts to them, even though it has somehow cheered them up. But at least she responded. When she noticed, she responded. That's extremely human. Like they are, they are. But it's human. When you see a mistake, you try to fix it, even if you were there when she was wrong. Somewhere else you can't see it. Reverse. He keeps looking away and holding the bag. I will vote, as the coalition has decided, but with some sympathy I look at this experiment, even if it is awkward, even if Mrs Šimenko speaks about how the President of the State will demand a discussion of responsibility, while at the same time 15 Members, write in the law, which probably some previous version had. But it's human. And on the other hand, it's not human, it's unusual, it's surprising, it's robotic. But who's running this robot, Mr. Shircelj has been rhetorically wondering, and I'm rhetoricalally asking myself. Then who's in the back of that lobby that took it? Economists say revealed preferences. I don't know what the consumer buys, but what he wants to buy, but when he buys, I notice and find out what he wants more and what he wants less. One breakthrough took place on 30 September 2013. At that time, there was an obvious change in methodology and a deterioration in the results of stress tests. There it would be possible to look further if there were anyone else in this country who is capable of doing this, looking for some background, who they are, and what they are and where they are profiting from. Those who buy will profit. That's clear. The locals get tips from this, those 30 pieces of silver they get, you understand what the originals then threw back in the garden, and they bought the field. Don't you? That's right. What are some of the problems that should make the responsibility more acute, and it is very likely that we will not? First, the dispossession of small shareholders or minority shareholders, which was doubtfully legal, was carried out by anti-dating, so that it was observed in the activities themselves that it was a sort of fraud. It didn't have to be. I don't know how wise. The farmer could see this if the date had been postponed by someone to achieve some purpose that the court could no longer react. That's just not fair. You don't have to have no law, I don't know what law forbids you. Then a vague methodology of stress tests with the above mentioned 30 September, when a break-in occurred, additional requirements for worsening the results of these tests. Here it appears that there has been, we are talking about the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. There has been a serious attack on the independence of Banka Slovenije from abroad. I'd agree, once, I think, Professor Prašnikar wrote to reveal the governor. Let him at least find out who carried out these actions at the time, which led to the result being what it was. Then discrepanish the results of the stress tests. There were at least three stress tests with diametric opposite results, the one made by Banka Slovenije herself, and the one made by Oliver Wayman. That's one-to-two almost. Roland Berger is somewhere in the middle. Any good master would then say, "I'm breaking this up, I'll re-examine what's going on." Or you could resist your stress test. In no way would I just shoot blindly if I said under the slogans and discover such an attack, such an attack on the Slovenian budget. And this would all be, let's say, whether we put the responsibility or not, or is responsible or not responsible for who it is, but what is even deeper, is the halving of the credits of the Slovenian banking system to so-called non-financial corporations, to the economy, to the real sector. I was saying on Friday that it showed that there had been a slight improvement in January, which had already deteriorated back in February. Now came the new Bank of Slovenia Bulletin, which fell again from January to February, the volume of credit fell again to the non-financial sector. Of course, everyone notices that, the doorman, every innkeeper notices that he has an empty inn, every little craftsman, because the blind doesn't get credit. And how did we survive that? As a result of this exports, due to the surplus, there is a higher export volume of 3 billion than imports. Once all incomes are drained, there's still 2 billion left. This influx saves us until the development policy is turned to such an extent that there will be no more levers that have raised the Slovenian economy and given this nation sufficient conditions to show its power. I think responsibility should be. This law, as quickly as it is made, because it is a problem, is in fact a problem of haste, of urgency with which it was made, of a desire to do something, could be repaired or could be communicated differently. It is worrying to listen to the representatives of the Government who are actually speaking, Mrs Sodin, my former co-worker, we greatly appreciated her contribution to the EBRD, as if there were no problems, as if everything were all right. And this recapitalisation, if it goes that way, won't be the last, because credit cuts create bad loans. When there are no credits in the system, the innkeeper who has an empty inn eventually becomes a bad debtor. These are macro-economic legalitys. I agree that something has to be done here. On the basis of this law, this initiative will probably not be today, but some agreement or any kind of parliamentary party level should be found, and then with economic policy makers, the responsibility to change behaviour through this responsibility should be communicated. If John and Peter are replaced, it does not matter if the conduct does not change. The European Central Bank is doing virtually everything to drive the economy. First of all, they gave special loans in October to directly buy bonds from banks that continue to credit the economy. And I thought, yeah, maybe that'll come to us. One month turned out a little, and then it went down again. It has now begun with these unconventional purchases of state bonds, it has already been running for two months, and nothing is known about credit activities again, it went down again in February, when there was hope, but maybe January is the bottom, and now it will start – nothing again. And that in the economy, you know, which has the surplus mentioned, which has the growth that we mention more than once, we're talking about the 2.6, but if you look at the euro, it's 3. Where they got 0.4 inflation, I don't know because there's no inflation, it's deflation. 3% has increased. And this year, all the signals show that growth will be at least the same as it was last year. So this release of credits by the ECB will at least benefit us on exports, if not already here. But why doesn't it work out here, but it's a matter of some special judgements that probably go beyond the information that we can give here. That's how much I'd have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u33	Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the last two months, we have dealt with a lot of possible irregularities in the procedures for the last rehabilitation of banks, from the amendment of banking legislation in 2013 to the implementation procedures for the rehabilitation of banks by Banka Slovenije. However, I will not return to all the evidence already made on the one hand and explain that has been given to us both during these two months by the Government and the Bank of Slovenia, on the other hand, because I believe from here on out that the necessary answers are still the responsibility of these competent institutions and specialised bodies, which must carry out their mission independently of politics and of any other interests. In all of these debates, which we have had on the subject of Banka Slovenije and Banka Sanitation in our Parliament, it seems that even at European Union level, they have been actively engaged in the issue of the independence of Banka Slovenije recently, as warnings come from both the European Commission and the European Central Bank. As early as 2014, the European Central Bank, at the then legislative initiative of members of the National Assembly, which in certain parts is even identical to the amendment that we are considering today, expressed some serious concerns. Some of the amendments proposed today are therefore identical to last year's proposals, which were also tabled by the SDS, on which the European Central Bank has also expressed an opinion last year and the concerns were similar to those of this time. At that time, the legislative initiative in the debate in the National Assembly was not adopted to take account of the concerns raised by the European Central Bank, in particular regarding the protection of the independence of central banks. The European Central Bank has reissued its opinion in response to the proposed amendments reintroduced in the parliamentary procedure by the opposition SDS, in February 2015, due to reports of Banka Slovenije's behaviour in the rehabilitation of banks. The European Central Bank has issued a legal opinion on the proposed amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act in accordance with its competence under the EU Treaty at the request of the National Assembly. This opinion is public and is also published on the ECB’s websites. What are the proposed changes to which the European Central Bank has responded? Members of the SDS have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a new law on Banka Slovenije, which they want to write down and say, increase the transparency of the functioning of the Slovenian central bank and establish greater responsibility for the Governor and Council of the Bank of Slovenia. To summarize briefly what they are proposing: the larger reporting requirements of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly for representatives of the opposition to participate in the meetings of the Banka Slovenije Council. Here I can also explain my role in cooperation at the Holy Bank of Slovenia. As President of the Committee on Finance, I get all the materials that are dealt with at the Councils of the Bank of Slovenia and I am informed of what is being adopted and what is being decided at the Councils of the Bank of Slovenia, even if due to any meeting of the Committee or to a meeting of the National Assembly of this Council then I cannot attend. Sveti Banka Slovenije takes place on Tuesdays, but any of the Members can also contact me on the subject of Banka Slovenije, as you are addressing me on other topics, give me initiatives, questions, requests for discussion at a committee meeting on the subject under the responsibility of Banka Slovenije. However, when I assess that, on the basis of a certain topic addressed at the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, a broader discussion is also necessary at the Committee's meeting, I will also convene such a meeting of the Committee and invite representatives of the Bank of Slovenia to attend it. Until now, they have regularly participated in all our meetings of the Committee, not all of them, but where the topic is related to banking, the Bank of Slovenia correctly responds to us, explains and implements the decisions we take on the Committee. Other changes are then made to the resolution procedure of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, in particular in the event of a serious infringement and incompatibilities of functions, further amendments giving the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia the possibility, without reason, to dismiss the directors and deputy directors of the departments, that the regular functioning of the Bank of Slovenia should be reviewed by the Court of Auditors so that the Governor and the Deputy Governor can be re-appointed at the most once. These changes, which I have briefly summarized here, have been taken by the European Central Bank, as I have said before. And maybe I should touch a few areas myself. First time, revisions. Audit of the Bank of Slovenia is specifically regulated by the Bank of Slovenia Act. In accordance with the provisions of this Act, the Bank of Slovenia shall be audited by an independent international auditor. The Bank of Slovenia's special audit regime was adopted due to its independence, which is determined both by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The revision regime takes into account that the accounts of the European Central Bank and the national central banks are audited by independent external auditors. In our case, the one selected by Banka Slovenije under the Public Procurement Act is proposed for the final selection process, where the Governing Council first deals with it and recommends it to the EU Council, which also approves the auditor. The auditors are selected and operate in accordance with good practices for the selection and mandate of the external auditors designated by the ECB and the requirements for the audit of public interest entities are also governed by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, the Law on the Court of Auditors does not provide for the supervision and supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. Until now, the question of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors was raised once, in 2012, and even then the Court of Auditors did not require a review of the Bank of Slovenia’s operations, but rather a review of the supervisory activities of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, claims that no one checks the operation of Banka Slovenije do not hold. The revision is therefore already regulated in the current law in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. However, if they change the regime currently in force, it should first be necessary to cut down or lay down the legal basis in the Law on the Court of Auditors for the power to revise the Court of Auditors over the regularity of the Bank of Slovenia. In doing so, we should strictly take into account the audit framework presented or reflected in the opinion of the European Central Bank. This provision should first be laid down in the Law on the Court of Auditors. Then forward, a larger reporting role. According to the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Banka Slovenije Act, Banka Slovenije is already reporting on its work to the National Assembly. I have already said that the representative of the Bank of Slovenia is present at almost every session of the Finance Committee. In this context, the National Assembly is informed of the annual report and financial plan of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia shall provide all information required by the National Assembly or by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the absence of explicit legal restrictions. As I said earlier, a representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy may also participate in a meeting of the Board of the Bank. These, as chairman of the committee, are part of the meetings, and I have called on you earlier for all possible different ways of working than I have for you to give me these initiatives. With regard to reporting to the National Assembly, it should be pointed out that we have also just had a meeting of the National Assembly, where the Governor has fully reported on all the procedures of the previous resolution of the banking system and responded to questions from Members and Members. The current regime therefore ensures the involvement and information of the National Assembly on the work of the Bank of Slovenia. I believe that a different regime could also lead to a certain political subordination of the Bank of Slovenia, or political interference in the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, since no institution may influence the Bank of Slovenia, may give instructions, nor can the Bank of Slovenia refer to other authorities. In the process of assessing the procedures of the Bank of Slovenia, finding infringements of the legislation and, as I said before, other competent authorities are competent. With regard to the transmission of confidential information to the National Assembly, I believe that this area needs to be regulated in accordance with national rules on the protection of confidential data, as well as the rules governing this area at the level of the European Union and in accordance with the ECB's opinion, which the current proposal does not provide. As regards discharge of decision-making bodies. With regard to the resolution of the decision-making bodies of the Bank of Slovenia, the ECB recalls the EU Treaty in Article 130, which sets out the principle of personal independence, which is a key aspect of the principle of the independence of central banks for members of the European System of Central Banks. Under this principle, which is also included in the Statute, the governors can be resolved only if they no longer fulfil the conditions required for the performance of their duties or if they have committed a serious breach. The European Central Bank also points out that any violation of the law or constitution in itself does not constitute a serious breach or is not equivalent to a serious breach and therefore such provisions extend the scope of serious infringements under Union law to such infringements. The relevant national legislator should not define what a worse breach means. The purpose is to prevent the authorities involved in the appointment of governors, in particular the Government or Parliament, from making discretionary decisions regarding the discharge of the Governor, from being alerted to the European Central Bank. They also add that personal independence would be compromised if the same rules were not applicable to other members of the decision-making bodies of the national central bank. Disclosure of classified information. The issue of the extent to which Banka Slovenije can disclose publicly the information it obtains under bank supervision has become acute with exceptional measures. Slovenian and European banking legislation imposes an obligation on the Bank of Slovenia to protect the confidential information it acquires under supervision. In its opinion, the European Central Bank notes that the provisions of the Directive on the exchange of information and business secrets do not provide a legal basis for disclosing classified information to the National Assembly as such. If I finish. On the basis of my view, the proposed amendments to the law lead to a decrease in Slovenia's reputation in this area. In certain segments they violate the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and may interfere with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. In some segments, the proposal of this law points to the political subordination of the Bank of Slovenia and the decision on powers that can only be determined by a court but not by Members. The European Central Bank also made this clear. I am of the opinion that the regulation of the operation of the central bank cannot be dealt with in a perfect, quick and partial way, as proposed by this bill, and thus jeopardize the institutional dependence of the central bank, so I do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you. First, he wanted a replica of Mr. Mag. Andrey Shircelj. You'll tell me what part you were misinterpreted in.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll certainly say it. The part where I was talking about control. Ms Urska Ban spoke about the supervision of the European Central Bank, not the supervision of the National Assembly. So, the whole control section. I very much appreciate the opinion of the European Central Bank here as an opinion. However, Article 152 of the Constitution speaks of the Bank of Slovenia being independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly. I hope that there are not very many institutions that are above the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That's one thing. In this regard, I have no problem with the European Central Bank controlling the Bank of Slovenia according to its criteria. However, I have a problem if the National Assembly, on behalf of taxpayers, cannot control the Bank of Slovenia, which manages taxpayers' money. And when we talk about this, we do not actually have an auditor in Slovenia, because the European Central Bank is talking about auditors and auditing and so on, carried out by the European Central Bank for its needs. And this is a common auditor, if you want, a commercial auditor who is chosen on the basis of such and different criteria, criteria and so on. But once again, ladies and gentlemen and Mrs Urska Ban, this is a constitutional provision which we have here and which we are committed to. The constitutional provision shall not be excluded by the opinion of the European Central Bank. The opinion of the European Central Bank is also an opinion and is not above all others. It's not a constitutional opinion. And it can't be. No matter what Draghi writes to Juncker, if Juncker gives this letter to the Commissioner and so on and then we get it to Slovenia. Are these pressures on independence? What about the other way around? Now we ask ourselves very rhetorical questions here: What are the pressures then? Are we going to answer that and will we demand that taxpayers' money be protected, even if you wish, by the Bank of Slovenia and also by the European Central Bank? The supervision of the Bank of Slovenia is not excluded here by supervision of the European Central Bank. I think it is necessary to respect Article 152 of the Constitution and, in fact, to ensure the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u37	Mr Mag, representative of the proposer, has the floor. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you for your floor. When you listen to some representatives of coalition parliamentary groups, perhaps those who do not know the situation in Slovenia can conclude that in Slovenia we have one of the healthiest banks and that as well as Banka Slovenije does, none of the central banks in the European Union do. Finally, for the second time in the history of Slovenia, we have saved the banking system and spent more than €5 billion at a given time. The question is, what's this sum going to be like to the end? I really do not understand that we are talking here only about the consequences of the situation in the Slovenian banking system, but we are not talking about the reasons. I am convinced that one of the key reasons for the situation in the Slovenian banking system is also the poor functioning of the regulator and that this makes it absolutely necessary to amend or supplement the Bank of Slovenia Act. Today is the first reading. A green light is lit and we can take into account the comments and proposals made on these amendments by the European Central Bank and the proposals made by coalition parties, which on the one hand advocates that the Bank of Slovenia Act should be amended and not, on the other hand, because the SDS has proposed it. And I really don't understand, and in the opinion and in the proposal made by the European Central Bank, I cannot understand that, with these amendments and with the additions proposed by the SDS, we are reducing the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and adding some politicisation to this decision. But in the SDS we are aware that changes are needed here and that taxpayers have paid too much for this. Two black Fridays happened to Slovenian taxpayers in 2013: 6 September and 13 December. On 6 September, Slovenian taxpayers rescued two private banks, the Factor Bank and Probank. It wasn't about state banks, it was about two private banks. And in the SDS, we believe it's fair to taxpayers, that taxpayers know who they were saving with their money, and even private banks, and for what. There are a number of issues that Banka Slovenije should further explain, but there are none. Thus, in the case of the last resolution of the banking system, when the methodology is not definitively explained, not in other matters. If I return to the rescue of two private banks, the Factor Bank and the Probanks, on September 6th, when the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia decided to go into some controlled liquidation to get rid of two private banks with the taxpayer's money. Why did not Banka Slovenije react to these banks before? There's something wrong here. The audit reports, the annual reports of this company, both Probanks and Factor Bank, showed in April 2013 that both audit houses audited by these two banks, both Deloitte and PVC, reported that there was a high risk that the group would not be able to operate as a functioning company in the future. Has the Bank of Slovenia reacted? It's not. One of the supervisors in this private bank received a life-long ban on doing business in Serbia due to fraud at Agrobank. And this same person became President of the Supervisory Board of the Bank on 29 August 2013. The Bank of Slovenia did not react again. And you say everything works fine here. It's not working. And that's why we're proposing these changes. See what the current Bank of Slovenia law says: Bank authorities – Governor and World Bank. After all, it looks nice on the outside. That means you have a governor, and then you have a world of banks that is a supervisory authority. But when you go into more detail, this world of banks is made up of governors and four vice-governors. Is that your independence? Is that your surveillance? That means that it's the same one that's the organ of the bank that's responsible for the operation, and then you have here the organ of the bank's world, which is the same. It means, you control and control yourself. We're talking in here about reviewing the operation of the bank itself. Who proposes an audit service for the revision of the Bank of Slovenia? The Council of the Bank of Slovenia. That means the same organ, there are governors and four vice-governors in here. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a moment to think about where we're going. I don't think if we've allowed ourselves "friends in bankruptcy," we can't afford "friends in banks". And a lot of conflicts of interest have been here. If we return to the rescue of these two private banks, the Factor Bank and Probanks. Banka Slovenije appointed a special administration and appointed a person who was the President of the Supervisory Board of Merkur into this extraordinary administration. But Mercury was led by his son, and Father ran the Factor Bank, which went into a controlled liquidation. I think that a number of Banka Slovenije's moves over the last period have not been such that they would have been in here as a result of preventing certain frauds or irregularities. See, in the last period we read, at least in the previous week, certain Slovenian media reported how Banka Slovenije went to rescue the empire of Petan and DZS. The senior advisor of the Bank of Slovenia is grappling with NLB, how the matter must be resolved. In fact, there are emails disclosed here and then, I don't know, the governor says the employee's opinion cannot be the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia. Respected and respected! Where did we come from? There is still an opportunity for this proposed law, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, to be lit by a green light in the National Assembly today. Once again, the independent agency doesn't mean that this agency doesn't have to have control.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! In opening, I must say that with sincere sympathy I listened to Dr. Frances Križanič's discussion in the part where he spoke about the human dimension, about the human component that this national assembly should take into account and should cherish. And on this human dimension, on this component, I also see the objectives of today's proposed law. For we, colleagues and colleagues, must stand up for people, we must be closer to people, not because it is the slogan of New Slovenia, but because we have been sent here by people to do good for people and to speak here on behalf of our citizens and citizens. And look, when the financial crisis arose in 2009, followed by the sovereign debt crisis, in fact, the European institutions approached relatively quickly to find solutions. Thus, the European Parliament, the European Commission, not least the European Central Bank, has taken key decisions. What about us? Here is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. With all that we have experienced, it is said that on 13 December 2013 the government's decision to use the taxpayer's money to patch up the 5 billion-dollar bank hole. This was not a single act that began and ended on 13 December 2013. No, ladies and gentlemen! This is essentially a process that will continue to beat mainly the young generations that are coming for a long time. We can't imagine what $5 billion is. Some entrepreneurs tell me that the new job costs about 50,000 euros. Then with five billion development money, they'd make me a hundred thousand new jobs. Actually, just as much as we need. And here again I stand for the people, to the side of the people who are on the road, on the sidewalk, in the village, asking, "Take those who have robbed us, take them who have taken us!" I've said this a hundred times before, and I ask myself again -- what about us? What have we done in terms of greater control? Because if we don't do anything and considering that we have so many, about 5 billion bad credits in the state banks, in particular, I expose them, it can only be a matter of time before we have to patch this bank hole up again with the taxpayer's money. As is the practice now that practically those who need financial servicing, let's say the economy, especially micro-economy, actually have nothing from this recapitalisation of banks. And what have we done to this day? Practically nothing. Today, some will support the Banking Act, where, if I may speak figuratively, the apprentice, with all due respect for the apprentices, I love them very much, where the apprentice can supervise the master. You'll support this today. The amendment of New Slovenia, which, for reasons unknown to me, did not even come to the vote, demanded that the supervisor should also be a professional person. And if we're doing the same thing so far, we're just finding mistakes and wondering, and then we're expecting that even though we won't react to some results, then it's a stupid thing to do if I remember Mr Albert Einstein, who wrote a very meaningful definition of insanity. He wrote: It is madness to do the same things over and over again and expect different results. If I translate this into today’s topic, it is said that it is madness to do exactly the same things, perhaps even in some part of the worse, and to expect that the new bank hole will never happen again. Thank God, thank God we're one. 1. 2007 took over the euro's common European currency and today we have a banking union, which has in fact been created to prevent the 2009 financial crisis mentioned above and the sovereign debt crisis. But here I would only point out a single control mechanism, which is very important. The single control mechanism is the new banking control system in Europe. It consists of the European Central Bank and the national supervisory authorities of the participating countries. What will we now give, what tools to national supervisory authorities? The same old tool that obviously didn't work and led to a bank hole or maybe today we'll give this law a green light and make some new, better tool to make control better and prevent new banking [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you, President. It is amazing to me how coalition parties are so quickly taking office positions, but the authorities are holding in this direction to defend the status quo at all times and that, suddenly, all the institutions that have been weak in the pre-election competition, to examine, to check, to overwind, they need to be respected today because they are very professional and must not interfere with the regulatory legislation governing their operation. The law we are discussing today, I believe that this must be said in the introduction, is a law that is not subject to coordination with the European Union. This is our law, we determine how we will have sound public finances in this country. The situation convinces us that we have not understood this so far. In fact, otherwise, we wouldn't have a five billion-dollar hole that the taxpayers would have already covered. Moreover, as the Secretary of State last said to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, four additional bad billions in banks are due to poor loans. I hope my colleague Tilna Christmas didn't understand very well when he was talking, if we don't go this way, let's just take the laws, because then I don't understand what he's doing here. What we're proposing today is the law. And we are enacting laws, and this is our task, which has been assigned by the electorate and the electorate, in order to make this country a better country. If I borrow the words of my colleague Christmas, who said, "this original sin is poorly prepared legislation, so that I think our first and foremost concern is that legislation will be prepared as it should be." Yes, but that also means that we are changing bad legislation, because colleague Christmas, the biggest government party representative, says that original sin is poorly prepared legislation. If the colleague of Christmas from the government party finds that we have poorly prepared legislation and because of the poorly prepared legislation we have a 5-billion-dollar hole and more, then I really do not know where the logic is that this poorly prepared legislation is not being amended, it does not change. The SDS came up with a proposal. It has come up with a proposal to amend the Bank of Slovenia Act to create appropriate controls that will prevent such fraud with bank, public money as has happened in Slovenia in recent years. My friend Christmas and everyone else, let me remind you of what you put in the coalition contract. You say: "The responsibility for carrying out the investigation of the bank hole is transferred from DUTB to the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia will need a more active role with regard to requests from banks to actively address the remaining bad loans in their balance sheets and to draw up an action plan on their treatment." In the coalition contract to Banka Slovenije you give additional powers and leave them behind or leave us with a disability law, that is, with bad legislation, as colleague Bozič says, "this original sin, poorly prepared legislation", and with an institution based on this bad legislation, you add new powers. How can taxpayers expect it to be different this time? You're giving new powers. And the government in its response, as if not living in this world, says with regard to Article 26, "that now reporting is properly arranged." Ah, come on! If the reporting were properly arranged, then this 5-billion-dollar hole would have been repaired first. The former Prime Minister, colleague Bratušek, and others at that extraordinary session said, "If they had reacted sooner, this amount would have been significantly lower." But we didn't, because reporting wasn't appropriate. As early as 2012, the Bank of Slovenia claimed that everything was fine. More. Even in 2013, when the state recapitalised two private banks of Forum 21, the Bank of Slovenia made it clear that the remaining banks in our banking system were completely safe. The debate on the Bank of Slovenia reminds me very much of the debate on the Slovenian judiciary two years ago. Two years ago, all of you - not you, but those who sat in this hall - spoke about how everything was fine in the Slovenian judiciary, how it was the greatest experts, how it was necessary to let the professions do their job. And today you're talking the same way about Banka Slovenije. In two years, when – I hope not, if this law is passed, certainly not or more likely to not, you will gradually realize that they may not be such experts, but perhaps, even if they are such experts, they need additional supervision. Especially because you are giving them additional powers by means of a coalition contract. I'm just going over a few suggestions, as we proposed in this amendment to the law. In view of the fact that the President of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services would also be sitting at Council meetings. Before, colleague Ban said, "I'm sitting there, even if I'm not sitting down, I get my papers, you can ask me if you need anything." And I ask you, dear colleague Ban, whether those deletion decisions have been or have not been anti-dated. Tell the public! Get up and tell the Slovenian public that we will not have extraordinary meetings again – have they been anti-dated or not? And a second time. Was everything about recapitalisation and the three audits as it should have been, or was it not? Perhaps, see, if there were already a representative or a chairman of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services in the world, this debate would not be so lively because the opposition would also be sitting there. I find it difficult to hear the argument of a representative who sits in this world, who is a representative of the government, "no reason for the opposition to sit in this world, because I am sitting there." See, if we want to spread democratic principles and if we want to increase transparency, then we must also give the opposition the opportunity to obtain relevant information. We are also proposing changes in the competence of the world. As you know, the current Banka Slovenije Act provides that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia governs the rights and obligations of working relations for members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. So they set their own wages, and they also decide whether they perform functions that are incompatible with their tasks. Tell me, do you know any other professions where they determine their own wages and employment obligations? But if that is not an important dilemma for you, then imagine that in the National Assembly, we set our own wages and determine for ourselves where we can participate, where we are beyond our authority and where we are not. Do you think voters and voters would accept this with understanding? Does this seem to you in the world of balance to be some meaningful proposal or some meaningful solution? Probably not. Like, look, I find it pointless or very interesting that the Ministry of Finance gave in the parliamentary response of one of our colleagues, namely, in Sweden, the central bank has four employees per hundred thousand inhabitants and in Slovenia 22. But Sweden doesn't have a bank hole. And if I'm not mistaken, Swedish experts are advising us on how to patch this bank hole. Do you therefore think that everything is okay in Banka Slovenije, that it works on the highest speeds and that it compresses from its capacities everything that is possible and that it does not need any control? I don't know if. As far as the Bank of Slovenia is concerned, they choose the auditor to revise them, and we propose that the National Assembly choose the company to carry out the audit. I'm asking what's wrong with that. What is wrong with this if the National Assembly chooses the auditor of the Bank of Slovenia? Look, remember, for one audit, the Bank of Slovenia or we gave taxpayers €21 million. Three audits of the banking system were carried out in order to finally select those rights. Me and the National Assembly can't take responsibility for this. But if the National Assembly were to choose an auditor, it could. And in this way, voters and voters could also exercise control over the work of the National Assembly and individual parties. Here we have a professional institution that sets its own salaries, which is the choice of an auditor, and we in the National Assembly – what? We say the profession has made up its mind. I don't know if that's how you do business. We have also heard about the operation of the Bank of Slovenia, how it has done everything necessary in the past. We had an extraordinary session of the National Assembly on this subject. In this report I have before me, the Bank of Slovenia said that it was essentially the main culprit of the Borut Pahor’s government’s bank hole, because it did not take into account the Bank of Slovenia’s proposals for recapitalisation in time. Look, even in the words of the Bank of Slovenia, I don't believe or take them as dry gold. Simply because it defies me, it does not deny me, but because some bad taste gives me another table in which it says how many measures Banka Slovenije has taken or sent to banks as a warning that something needs to be changed. In 2009, the largest number of these warnings was 212. But do you know who was then the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, the one who made the biggest bank hole? Today's vice-governor. The one who says that the banks failed to take control was at the exact time in the place that could ensure it. And today it convinces me that the bank has done everything in its power. What if the lady did not do everything she could when she was president of the Supervisory Board? And we have one big problem with banking in particular, that there are always one and the same people swaying by the most important functions. Then we ask ourselves, as colleagues have repeatedly asked themselves, how is it that every time we have such a bad result? Yeah, well, if there's always one and the same solution that doesn't work, it probably doesn't always work out with the same people. SMC, the largest government party, has already announced that it will not support this proposal. However, I suggest they reconsider this. It's the first reading, and in the second reading, things can change with the amendments. And it is certainly the will and desire of the SDS to increase transparency and improve public money management in banks as well. SMC says there is an attempt at political submission to the Bank of Slovenia. I am here asking what is in particular about the political subordination of the Bank of Slovenia. What about Banka Slovenije being checked by the Court of Auditors? Is this the political subjugation of the Bank of Slovenia? I'm asking. Apparently, after today, the Court of Auditors will be considered a political institution. But the fact that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia should no longer set its own wages and operating conditions is therefore political pressure, political submission to the Bank of Slovenia? Who else in this world is setting their own wages? Except for the Prime Minister, this one goes to a lower number. But is there supposed to be a president of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, in addition to a government representative and a coalition representative, sitting in the world, i.e. a representative of the opposition? Is that political submission? But, SMC, look, you too, if you survive the other elections, you'll be in the opposition for once. And by the power of the government parties to challenge the opposition, that in such an important institution that the taxpayers have stood in this second recapitalisation of 5 billion and can even more, forgive, this is unworthy and, for the time being, totally inappropriate for me, but it is also totally not in line with a coalition contract that advocates some higher moral and ethical principles and more transparency. And the fact that the Bank of Slovenia has to provide additional information to Parliament – I don't know, I really don't know how a Member can oppose this provision. Do we want to have a group of unknown Members? I don't want any more information. I don't understand how someone who's been defended doesn't want to know anymore. Just because the profession said we should write one report. They're paid for it. They cost us a lot. EUR 5 billion and more can be done. Is the other reason why I don't want to be informed because if I don't know, I'm not guilty? But in this banking story, we are all too often witnessing this story, "we didn't know, we did everything in our power, we didn't do it." This was the former government, that was the director. But there are no levers. That is why it is the task and mission of our Members to amend the legislation and bring it into such a life as to enable proper supervision. Grande finale: The ECB says we can't. See, the ECB has quite an interesting point of view in this opinion. Let's say he's right at point 4. 5, "In the view of the ECB, the broad scope of the proposed amendment gives to the Court of Auditors concerning the Bank of Slovenia is not compatible with Article 27 and the principle of independence". [[…]] Look, this has nothing to do with independence. It's based on a diction called the rank of bankers, because that's what it takes to realize that bankers stick together and always will be. Just like the judges he holds together and always will be. Now, are you going to fall over these high words that the bankers have, or are you going to know how to separate the grain from the weeds? And the mission of the Member is to distinguish what is important and what is not. But according to the dictates of this point 4.5, independence means that you're out of control. Everything that's been out of control in history has, we know, gone one way or the other. And if it cost us 5 billion euros – will we be out of control, we will let ourselves be out of control? Look, Factor Bank and Probank were giving loans to Forum 21 companies without supervision. And who covered for them? Tax collectors. This is the policy that is supposed to allow legislation and that we Members should fight for. Of course, the definition that I read with different eyes than my colleague Ban, and I have quoted it once before, says: "The ECB points out that any violation of the law or constitution in itself does not in itself constitute a violation. The relevant national legislator should not define what a worse breach means." Can you imagine something like that? I do not know, I am personally appalled at these words – that someone says that a national legislator cannot determine what is a worse breach. That the ECB would say that in its opinion and that the SMC would present this as an argument as to why they are against this law. I can hardly imagine that we can support such views. I am particularly looking at the fact that the president of your party in the pre-election hearings said, "We will not submit to Brussels." Otherwise, it's Frankfurt, and anyway, it's foreign international institutions. But see, as far as the banking system is concerned and as far as Slovenian banks and Banka Slovenije are concerned, we cannot say that everything is fine. The sooner we realize everything's not okay, the sooner we start looking for solutions. However, the solution is not sought by killing any opposition proposal at the outset, but by seeking the good side and good definitions of opposition proposals, then upgrade them, because, lastly, you will take responsibility because you are a government party and then transform them into this direction so that the relevant supervisory institution has adequate control. All I heard today was, "We conditionally accept that the Court of Auditors is in control of the Bank of Slovenia." Therefore, I expect the SMC to table amendments to the Court of Auditors Act tomorrow, or at the earliest possible date. On the other hand, I call for reconsideration. Remember the 5 billion debt unaccounted for by irresponsible bankers to our craftsmen. And consider, though the proposal suggests the opposition, whether it is not worth supporting for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you. Replo wanted Mr. Tillen Christmas. You'll tell me what you've been misinterpreted about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u44	I was misunderstood, in particular, about the adoption of legislation by the National Assembly or what our task is. I would just like to highlight my position, which may not have been sufficiently understood. In my opinion, this bill does not solve what is the problem and does not solve the problems you are talking about. To a certain extent, however, it is true that it is currently in the process of the Banking Act, which solves part of this problem. It was tabled by the Government, and this law was also awarded generously by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Urska Ban also wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I would have responded only in my work when Mr Logar asked me to stand up and answer whether the Bank of Slovenia had forged documents. I was misunderstood here. I have been in the Council of the Bank of Slovenia since September 2014. I am not an investigative authority to investigate back there, you can ask other representatives who were then sitting at the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Your representative was a non-voting member at the time. However, all the answers regarding what you asked were made public both at the meeting of the Committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly. And yet, I don't know what the understanding is, you've been calling for the participation of a representative of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission at the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Here in the bill you refer to the Commission for the supervision of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Ange Logar will tell you what he wants procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you. I apologize to the taxpayers and taxpayers and to all those present for my unloving mistake. In view of the developments, I think that on that bench over and in view of the public controversy on another issue, I have been repeatedly denied a lecture by the President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services instead of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. So I apologize for that mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u49	Let's move on. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, get Mrs. Nada Brinovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying so, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! In opening, I would like to respond to the honourable Member of the Magi. I do not agree with him that we will reject the bill simply because it has been tabled by the opposition party of the SDS. I will briefly give the reasons why I think today is the reason for the rejection. We are certainly aware of the many recent circumstances that have had a significant impact on the banking system itself, and I believe that many new circumstances should be included in the Bank of Slovenia law itself in one way or another. First of all. We are already under a coalition agreement that the investigation of the bank hole and the definition of liability, and despite the concerns of the said Member, as we see this matter, is a fact that this responsibility is transferred from the Company for the Management of Claims to the Bank of Slovenia clearly in the event of a suspicion of criminal offences against the competent authorities. It's the other way around. I believe that the question of Banka Slovenije's responsibilities, which has already been expressed today by Banka Slovenije, is a very important one, and has a reduced competence with regard to the prudential supervision of the operations of banks in the Republic of Slovenia. [[..]] Furthermore, EU directives relating to the Bank of Slovenia concerning the integration into the monetary union. Banka Slovenije takes over the repair of the bank resolution fund and in mid-year also the deposit guarantee fund. Last but not least, in the case of the adoption of the Bank Act [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the exchange of information in the customer system. All of this, and something else, is certainly a reason for reflection, including initiatives and proposals today [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. The text is requested by the representative of the proposer mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u52	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleague Verbic, I completely disagree with your statements. It should be stressed that this is the first reading. I would understand your arguments which you have cited if it were for a second reading, but in the first reading only the green light is actually lit to this law, that it can go to a second reading and that this law with amendments and comments will be improved. Last but not least, the Prime Minister himself, whose member of the party you are, said in February that the Banking Act needed to be changed mainly in the appointment and discharge of the Governor. All these things are open. The SDS is aware of the situation we are in, and we have also made these proposals. You have also said a lot in the last two minutes that it is in your interest to disclose the consequences and, above all, the causes and responsibilities of the banking situation. I wonder, for more than six months, the Mira Cerar government has been in a position to take what measures you have taken to do so? Did you send any laws? Did you request a withdrawal? Have you proposed a solution? Not according to my behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the word to prepare the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Today we have heard several times in the Chamber, and we all know that the rehabilitation of banks, which was carried out in 2013 and partly in 2014, has cost us more than 5 billion. We must not forget here the interest that we will pay for it, nor are we waiting for the Constitutional Court's opinion on the opposition of holders of subordinated bonds due to their deletion. And there's probably another 500 million waiting for us. The rehabilitation of banks has therefore affected all citizens and the country is still insisting on a austerity policy. Where is the responsibility for the situation now? That's probably what we're all asking here in this room. I hope no one else here remembers and blames the taxpayers. I must say that I have said this because the coalition or coalition has recently proposed and enacted all possible laws. Last time, a local from the upper Savina Valley, where I come from, he said, "Well, in the National Assembly, you accept everything possible and impossible laws. I wouldn't be surprised if you passed the Water Act to get Savinja back up to the source of the Logar Valley. Anything is possible with this composition of the National Assembly. You will change the rules of nature in this way, and you will believe that this will happen in nature. That's how you take things in order with ease and confidence." Those are his words, and I must say that I laughed at it at first, and then I had a pretty good idea. A good year after recovery, it is clear that none of the objectives or objectives of the rehabilitation project have been met. Banks no longer credit, even less than before recovery, and companies still face a major problem in lending to state banks. This was last recognised by the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Boštjan Jazbec, when he spoke of the Slovenian phenomenon of growth without lending. I wonder who it was in the interest of Slovenia to invest more money in banks than they really needed. From official sources it was heard that Slovenia would restore credibility in the financial markets through a thorough rehabilitation of banks. Did you? We probably know the answer. I believe that the responsibility for the situation must be taken by the previous government, which has enormously entrusted itself with the rehabilitation of banks, as well as by the one that has not yet provided effective and effective supervision and management of banks. Of course, it is a responsibility, and it is also some responsibility, on the Bank of Slovenia, which apparently still does not exercise its control well enough. Banka Slovenije’s task is to control banks and savings banks and to work towards financial stability. The Bank of Slovenia should manage its responsibilities as regulators in an effective, responsible, independent, professional and legislative manner. Banka Slovenije is, of course, the responsible Governor of Banka Slovenije and the Council of Banka Slovenije. From this we can find that Banka Slovenije is also responsible for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. Likewise, the government, which has not yet adopted the State banks' strategy of operations, has clearly set objectives and policies for the return of at least the share of the tax money invested. We do know, however, that the recapitalisation of banks is taking place because the banks are still state-owned. And for the most part, the coalition still believes that state property is state silver. Here I will repeat the words of the debater at one of the February meetings of the Committee on Finance, who said in relation to this state silver: "State silver is a pile of iron lying in a warehouse for which we only pay the deck. Otherwise, all of us — and, of course, the taxpayers — should also feel something of this silver in our pockets." Although I must say here that in their pockets taxpayers really feel a lot; but in a negative sense. At one of the meetings of the Committee on Finance, the Governor of the Bank said recently that our banking system was good. I must say that the Minister of Health also said at one of the meetings of the Health Committee that our health system is good; we see where we are in the area of health, finance and banking. It only seems that this coalition is characterized by the fact that everyone is satisfied with their own fields or their own resources — and that is the biggest problem. Let me now move on to our proposal to supplement the law we have proposed. With these amendments to the Bank laws, we want to ensure, first and foremost, the transparency of the operation of the Bank of Slovenia and to establish the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its authorities, according to the Governor and Council of the Bank of Slovenia. With these changes, we would also like to point out that the human resources policy in banks continues and that the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia determine their own salaries and other rights from the working relationship, which is very controversial, as my colleague Ange mentioned earlier. And that we have not yet witnessed any proposed withdrawal or withdrawal for false reasons. The members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall also determine their incompatibilities as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. It's not only controversial, it's also very unethical. And here I want to knock a little bit on your ethics and the morals you like to treat in the coalition. In the proposal for amendments, we also propose to amend or limit the number of terms of office of the Governor and Vice-Governors and to appoint and dismiss members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, it is also very beneficial for the Bank of Slovenia to not be able to participate at the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia at this time. The presence of members of the opposition would certainly increase the transparency and responsibility of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, according to transparency. But we need to be aware that this needs to be allowed and that the bank is state-owned. The Bank is the property of all of us, and we citizens should all be aware of its business. In the area of the protection of confidential bank data, we propose that this protection should no longer be used as an excuse for bad moves if, of course, they relate to banks that have received state aid. We also propose that the operations of banks should be audited by an external audit firm chosen by the National Assembly, which should then also report on the operation of the bank. So if I sum up, the main objective of the proposed amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act is to increase or ensure the transparency of the business to which I will say again, in the coalition you like to speak; and to establish the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia or its authorities. I hope that there will be a change to the law before there will be any further recovery or recapitalisation of banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We have already said in our position in the United Left that in principle the solutions offered by the law or the amendment of the law are supported and that we will therefore also give the law a green light at first reading, because our programme is part of the democratisation of the banking system. We believe that this law that we have before us is taking the first steps towards more effective control of the Bank of Slovenia and further towards some democratic direction of this institution, which has accumulated enormous power in recent years. But I will take the next minute to comment briefly on the concrete solutions that this law offers from our point of view; that is, I will go straight to the articles. If I first stop at Article 26 talking about Banka Slovenije reporting. Here, in our view, the current law is bad, as we have seen mainly with regard to the rehabilitation of banks and the decommissioning of small shareholders and bondholders – we have seen that this system does not work. Banka Slovenije is currently sending reports to the National Assembly, which are essentially a summary of published reports on its website. The key questions we have been asking for months, however, are not answered by the National Assembly and the Slovenian public. Let's say how the liquidity value of banks was assessed, how could the difference of the burden test by the method from below and from above be as much as 45 %, how did they get the amount of the necessary recapitalisation and so on? We still do not get answers to these questions, and it is clear that the existing reporting was not sufficient to enable the National Assembly to carry out its work effectively. We therefore agree with the additions added by the novels, in particular the indent which provides that the report also contains confidential information, if necessary. As we have seen in all the cases described, the Bank of Slovenia has consistently referred to confidentiality. We believe that it is essential for the National Assembly to have access to this information so that it can exercise effective control over this institution. Then let's move on. If I stop at Article 33, this is the participation of other persons at meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Novela adds here that the presence of a representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances would also be ensured at the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Here is the position of the United Left to give the proposed solution too much influence to the two largest parties in the National Assembly. In fact, a representative of the Finance Committee, usually of the coalition, and a representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, who is usually of the largest opposition party, would now be sitting in the Council. The two largest parties would thus have an exclusive impact on the flow of information from Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly, so we would rather be invited here to extend Article 26 so that the National Assembly is informed of all that is necessary for the effective exercise of control. The National Assembly here, however, means all Members, not only the two largest groups of Members; of course, in accordance with the rules on data protection. If I go further, to paragraphs 35 and 36, which speak of restricting the terms of office of the Governor and other members of the Bank of Slovenia – we absolutely support this. Otherwise, we think that the problems of our banking system are largely not of a personal nature but of a systemic nature; but we support because in a democratic society it is not normal for someone to be subscribed to a position without any restrictions. We will therefore, of course, support the proposed solution to limit mandates to a maximum of two mandates. If I go to Article 39 talking about the discharges of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Here we agree with the view that in the current regime the discharge of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia is virtually impossible because it is very loosely defined. All it says is that this is a serious breach, which is why the Governor can be resolved in order for the Governor to violate the Treaty on European Communities or the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which is an extremely broad definition. We therefore agree that it would be more reasonable to have a hearing before the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in case of suspected violations by the Governor or any other member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. It is necessary to lay down criteria for what is a violation and what is a worse breach or what these criteria are for the purpose of being resolved by a member. This is not yet in the current order, but we think we can complete this by reading it again. Article 40, then, which refers to the organisation and operation of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposer would add here the possibility that the Governor, without justification, may dismiss the Director or Deputy Director of the Department. We do not agree with this in particular because there is no explanation. The aim of the amendment, as we understand it, is to make the Bank of Slovenia more rational and transparent. If we give the governor these powers to relieve the directors without explanation, then we are going in the opposite direction from the target. We cannot support this article from this point of view; however, we believe that the Governor should always be able to explain his actions when a person is dismissed. And last of all, paragraph 39, no, I apologize – paragraph 25. Here's a talk about a list of entities to be audited by the Court of Auditors. The proposer proposes to include the Bank of Slovenia. We agree with that, but we have two fundamental concerns. With regard to these substantive audits, it is our view that the Court of Auditors already has all the powers to carry out the audit of the Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije is a person of public law and owns 100 % of the country. It fulfils both criteria in the Court of Auditors Act in order for the Court of Auditors to exercise control over this institution. However, another reservation is that it is necessary to distinguish between the audit of annual accounts on the one hand, as investigated by the Court of Auditors, and between the audit or investigation of the profitability and legality of operations on the other hand. And the part that should be resolved by law is in particular the second – revision, investigation of the prudence and legality of business. This is not a task performed by the Court of Auditors. So briefly, these are our comments. As we say, we support the law in its spirit of greater democratic control over the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Mrs. Maria Antonija Kovacič should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When I listened to this debate today, I am hearing everything through about independence, autonomy, the inadmissibility of interfering with these institutions of the country, that is, also in the Bank of Slovenia, which is working independently, doing extremely fair, responsible and so on. We listen constantly from the coalition and also from the representatives of Banka Slovenije to the fact that God does not allow anyone in this country, even if the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to propose an appropriate legal solution that would strengthen, of course in a legal way, control over what has happened in the Banka Slovenije lately. If we look back at the first recapitalisation of our country, then we have come to the second recapitalisation, to the huge bank hole; but over and over and over again all those who are somehow responsible for this situation are coming to the National Assembly and convince us that we do not have the right to be independent and so on – and we must not do anything because they are doing the most excellent, maximum good, maximum quality, maximum responsible. And I wonder, of course, as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia ask. What, then, is wrong with this country if we have reached a situation in the banking system that this country is in if we have reached another recapitalisation of our state banks? What's wrong with this country? Obviously, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislative branch of power, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do not implement, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of their duty, and adopt appropriate legislation to ensure – and I am convinced that it provides in most cases, except for some changes that are absolutely necessary – that the Bank of Slovenia, as an institution, will carry out its task for the benefit of this country, citizens and citizens and in accordance with the laws and constitutional provisions. Interestingly, when so vehemently, so open, we so clearly claim that Banka Slovenije is oh and in general and everything is fine; but I see an article in Finance a few days ago and you can read it. Madam of the Bank of Slovenia, please read this. Don't look down into the ground, but look here. It's right that you know that. Please read it. I'll wait for you all to see and read what it says here. See what it says here? And you know what it says – how the Bank of Slovenia got involved in the rescue of Bojan Petan. Have you ever heard that before? Why are you so quiet now, but there have been so many different conversations before, my dear?Oh, my God! Those are questions. I don't mean that. That's what the Finance Officer wrote. Among other things, this magazine also states under item 1 — What role does the Bank of Slovenia play in the resolution of the DZS Empire? "As revealed in the next article, Franci Tušek, senior adviser in Banka Slovenije, has written that NLB is threatening a restructuring agreement and will decide how they will approach the solution. The Bank of Slovenia's excuses that this is not an official opinion are a little strange. Tušek sent a message from his official e-mail. So what's not clear?" And dear colleagues, now I wonder what is not clear. Here we have representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, and let them explain what is not clear. I understand everything. However, I expect that it will become clear to the others who are sitting in the National Assembly. And it says here, and I'm going to quote. "Bank of Slovenia and NFD Holding: 2013 for the Flood. He writes: "DZS is a financial holding company and Banka Slovenije helps him solve it. But she didn't do the same for everyone. The Central Bank also played a key role in the agreements on the existence of the NFD Holding in 2013, while in 2013 the Bank of Slovenia considered that financial holding companies should not be resolved. Why don't they do the same with Petan? They haven't answered." Ladies and gentlemen, is this not the questionable work of the Bank of Slovenia – in different cases different?Oh, my God! It seems to me that these are important questions that should certainly be answered. The proposal for a law that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party for a parliamentary procedure is intended to create conditions for more control in certain segments in all areas of this country, where we have been able to assess that it is too small, according to our assessment. And that in the future the consequences and problems that have taken place in our banking system and those large bank holes, when those who should and are responsible or responsible, would no longer be affected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want and we are also trying to draw the attention of the coalition and the government to the fact that there is an urgent need to make certain changes in this area so that such problems do not arise in the future. I have heard many times today that we are trying to politically subordinate the Bank of Slovenia through this law. This sentence is on a magnetogram where it can be checked. All those who have read this law, I hope you understand and know what it means to subdue someone politically; and here there is not a single word about it. This is about the proposed solutions that would follow the path I spoke of earlier. I do not think that he is in the National Assembly, which could oppose such a bill because this law follows a red thread – greater transparency, greater responsibility regardless of trying to hide behind independence. And that's what this law is about. I think he's in the right place at the right time. If you now release it through first reading, it is possible for it to be adopted in the second reading and to be sufficiently quality and well completed in the plenary session in order to pursue these objectives. But there may also be another interest – that certain solutions continue to be hidden in the fog, which are definitely to blame for having such a situation and such a bank hole in the country and that it must be repeatedly covered by our taxpayers. I think we need to end this one day. The last time is to make an end of it, to join forces – all the parties in this House, regardless of political affiliation – and to follow this path, because I think we are sitting in this Parliament because of the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia; not because of red, green, yellow or any of them. I think we must all step forward together, this must be in our common interest. Only this way can we get to the point we are talking about because we want a better and better future for our citizens and citizens. And not again and again those who will cover the messes that the banking system was doing when it was lending to beautiful eyes, when the political boors could get what they wanted without a guarantee, etc. If the Bank of Slovenia is not responsible, even partly responsible, then the devil should take me. One more question. Two days ago, I got one piece of information, and I'm interested. The last month, a month and a half had an extremely intense coordination between Banka and Banka Celje on merger, all merger procedures were under way. Two or three days ago, however, there was a clear indication that they should immediately interrupt all discussions. Who ordered it, and why was it ordered? That information holds a hundred percent. I really want to know whether Banka Slovenije is present as regulator in these matters or not. That's an important question. This is also a question for representatives of the Bank of Slovenia to check if they do not know what happened here. Well, interestingly, there are great things going on behind your back. I don't know what kind of towers to find out what's going on. And yesterday, before yesterday, a clear instruction was given that all conversations must be interrupted, strictly, no more communication, in one way or another. Please check this as a regulator of the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia, if that is the case. And that concludes it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you. The theme that's on the show isn't my mother's theme, but it is. I always pay attention when it comes to talking about someone being independent. We have made a number of independent bodies in this country since 1991, such and different; some are, of course, essential under the Constitution and the law, some not at all. This is one of those who is necessarily independent, but still; from the KPK to the Office for the Protection of Competition and so on, because we are obvious, or the left governments are obviously usually convinced that an independent body – everything will be fine. In Slovenia alone, independence in principle means work, abuse or bad work. So much for that. I listened very carefully to the former finance minister, Dr. Krizanič, who spoke. I don't know who listened to him, who didn't, but if I understand correctly, his debate was going this way, that this marriage was actually real and good. It just takes some changes, that's all I understand. I don't know if you SMC understood this, but he's just going to support some client logic; but I don't care. I am interested in the fact that the former Minister of Finance, who has been responsible for the functioning of the Ministry of Finance for three years, finds this out. Most of those who know about finance as much as I do – because I know more than I do in my wallet, but not anymore – you are obviously convinced of everything else, especially my colleagues from SMC. The ECB said so – yes, of course she said so, but what else would she say. But that doesn't mean we have to respect that. Why is that? Then why do you not respect the European Commission's report on justice? They also said that justice is one of the worst in Europe. But we don't, and we don't respect that, and here we have to respect the ECB's opinion; why, come on. Banka Slovenije – for my understanding, so at least I understand the situation – is the most responsible for at least the second recapitalisation, the most responsible and the third most likely to be if we continue to do so. It is the one who is also the most responsible for the fact that every citizen today is in charge of several thousand euros more than it should be. The same Bank of Slovenia, when the National Assembly asks it to provide the information required by law, says: "No, we will not give it to you, it is confidential. They get a few trucks of money, in narrated words, and of course they save two private banks and they dump half a billion there. But we cannot know that; we can learn from the newspaper what they have done — and that seems right to you. I don't think that's right. And they say to us, "You mustn't know." At the same time, the lowest official of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, who is involved in any findings, verifications of any tax returns, writes a letter to the bank, say to the Ljubljana Bank, and will receive all your information, for every euro he will get all the information you did. This official is therefore entitled to receive information on a small person, if I may say so; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is not entitled to the data where 5 billion went. You can't paint me with this, even though I don't know my financials, but nobody can paint me with this. The National Assembly is likely entitled to such information, not what they publish on the Internet as their report; and what is good for an old mother at home on the Internet is also good for the National Assembly. Come on! It's a stupid thing to settle for. According to my assessment, it is urgent – leave the ECB, come on, do we have a constitution or do we have legislation or do we not have it? Do we have only the ECB in this area? Surely we can arrange the relationship between the Bank of Slovenia and the National Assembly in a completely different way, roughly as we said in our proposal for a law. If you feel that this is wrong, then let the marriage go to another reading and correct those articles. But agreeing to the current situation means holding, excuse me, the wish of those who steal. But they'll both be guilty. Why? That's why we're wooding the next recapitalisation. And now leave these gentlemen on the Slovenian road in the Bank of Slovenia untouchable, which they themselves determine, at least the Council of the Bank, also pays and more, and then for me it is not independence, but it is already at the limit of what is called robbing citizens. I'm not going to be a part of this, so I'm going to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Mrs Eva Irgle ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. In the opening remarks, including my colleague Franz Križanič, much has already been said about this proposal for a law that we have today under consideration. Unfortunately, I will say, I also looked at last year's debate on this very similar material. The difference is only in one provision that the discharge of members of the Bank of Slovenia may be proposed by a group of 15 Members and Members. However, last year's proposal stated that the proposal could only be submitted by the President of the Republic. I think this marriage will be harder to support. In doing so, I must not overlook the fact that the assessment of the fulfilment of the condition for early resolution of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the conditions for the merger of the function cannot be an assessment of the National Assembly which deals with issues, unfortunately, politically, contrary to the principle of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, as set out in Article 152 of the Constitution and also in Article 2 of the Bank of Slovenia Act. I cannot go beyond this proposal that a solution can only be achieved by the majority of the members, while appointing the necessary two-thirds majority. Under our legislation, this does not apply either to the appointment of Constitutional Judges or to the President of the Court of Auditors; these functions require only the majority of Members. Otherwise, I must say that on 2 April 2013, Jazbec was named 77 votes, but the Social Democrats did not back up at the time. That means it was a two-thirds majority. I have also looked at the opinion of the European Central Bank, and I cannot deny all the above. However, I believe that today's debate and the proposed law will unfortunately not solve the problems of people who have lost their jobs, the fate of people who have lost their dignity, the fate of people who cannot live with their incomes, and the fate of people who have lost confidence in the future – unfortunately many children are among the latter. I propose that we do as much as we can at the January session to get recommendations from the Bank of Slovenia, to start solving problems and do something better for our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenia has carried out a second resolution of the banking system since its independence and has always been the same reason for this operation. In fact, banks granted controversial loans or later it was found that they were controversial loans to companies and individuals who were then unable or even unwilling to repay them. However, these loans were mostly granted through political-friendly lines. We have been asked several times by SMC on various committees and commissions on the basis of what we claim to have been the case with these controversial loans for political and friendly links. I'll give you an example. Mr Zoran Jankovic, as mayor of Ljubljana – even today – freely admitted that he had called on the New Ljubljana Bank to grant one of these controversial loans for the Stožice project. Concentrations that turned out to be an inherited project today. Here we have some policies that have actually wanted and have also influenced the granting of these controversial loans. Transparency in the banking system is therefore essential because transparency is the only way to ensure effective control of the financial system and the success of banks. Now I'm going to focus briefly on something else, because I know it hasn't been mentioned yet, but I see it as a problem. At the joint meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and the Committee on Justice, we have also considered criminal responsibility for those who are supposed to create a bank hole; no one has ever been responsible for this before. And interestingly, the Anti-Corruption Commission, led by Mr Goran Klemenčič at the time, was to investigate this bank hole and these controversial loans, but found nothing; because it did not come to any conclusions, because the Commission then withdrew very quickly as soon as the dirty business concerning the destruction of the government of Janez Janša was done. Then she stepped down. Even more, why do we see this as a problem? Since the Vice-President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Rok Praprotnik received a job at the New Ljubljana Bank three months later – without any invitation. This job was simply obtained because Mr Medja called him and said: "Look, we have a job available, you can get it in the bank's management system." Although Mr Praprotnik has never worked in the banking area, even if we know that at that time more than 700 people were fired from the bank, but they worked for a very long time in the banking system. At that time, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party requested an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and also made it clear that it was systemic corruption. The bank or bank hole, a multibillion-dollar bank hole, was eventually given a job in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. The one who fought to combat systemic corruption is then employed for the prize in the very organization he is supposed to investigate. If this isn't the highest form of systemic corruption and clienteleism, then I don't know what it is. And then, interestingly, the Commission to prevent corruption in the assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system, in terms of systemic corruption, will write down the following: "The Commission recommends that banks improve the selection and appointment of leading and leading persons by preventing the choice or employment of political, business and personal-related, under-trained and experienced individuals and at the same time ensuring the choice of individuals whose results of the previous work promise and guarantee more successful and responsible staff, thereby improving the quality of business and society management." I don't think there's any need for comment. As can be seen from the banking situation, the banks' boards acted unconstitutionally, acted irresponsiblely, the supervisory authorities did not do the work they were expected to do. Inefficient control, in particular by the Bank of Slovenia, by lending through political-friendly lines today shows inevitable consequences. And these are reflected in the poor economic and financial situation, in the collapse of businesses, in the increase of unemployment and in the lower standards of our citizens and citizens. I demand that Banka Slovenije ceases to hide documents and that things are cleared up in a transparent way. Mr Pogačnik led an investigative commission on banks in the previous term, and he could not obtain many documents at all because the Bank of Slovenia had consistently prevented this. And secondly, I hope that in this country, once and for all, someone will be responsible for this multibillion-dollar bank hole. However, I have the feeling that the ruling coalition — but perhaps naively, I thought that this would change with new standards — would obviously protect those who caused the bank hole. Why am I saying this? First, because you do not support our law, and secondly, because you were not prepared to give signatures for the establishment of an investigative commission that would deal with this particular area. I, I'm sorry, I understand that. It's been a while since you've been the greatest in the Peace Cerar Party, you've moved from words to actions. Excuse me, modern center party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. First, maybe one question, a rhetorical question. Why are the left coalitions — whatever it was — from the government of Borut Pahor, let's say the coalition of Alenka Bratušek or the current party of Prime Minister Mir Cerar — always opposed to any intervention or look at the intestines of the banking system? That's one of the key questions. They do not oppose this party, I do not know, SDS, Nova Slovenija; however, those parties who consider themselves to talk a lot about transparency are very much responsible. However, when anything needs to be done in this area, they simply block all procedures. This is not the first proposal to amend the Bank of Slovenia Act; it is not the first attempt to reveal anything within the banking system; especially or exclusively in areas where bad transactions and bad decisions are involved, even criminal offences. But there is always a convincing majority, which has a distinct foretaste that just blocks it. We pay the costs all, not small, are enormous in terms of the scale of Slovenian GDP and what is the worst – they are not finished. I think there's about half of the bad claims in banks that haven't been transferred, and that's just going to require an extra tax. Not to mention all those interventions by the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, when the state was in debt only to deposit deposits on the banking system, to at least create the appearance of the quality of the bank portfolio. I think these were also provocations from former finance ministers. Many of you refer to the position of the European Central Bank, but the European Central Bank also allows intervention in the staff structure of the Bank of Slovenia and other central banks in any country in cases where serious violations are committed. The governor can get rid of himself in this way, too. However, if you want to initiate a liability procedure in Banka Slovenije, then you need to get to the facts, to the data that the violations have been committed. It is not possible, however, to reach those in a situation where the matter is not transparent if it is not transparent, if you cannot, if it is not allowed to look into whether in certain cases it has been a crime within the operation of a bank, a banking system; or if it has been an irresponsible conduct of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the Governor, when they have not reacted in a timely and correct manner in cases where the infringements have been detected. Until something is established and it is allowed to look into it, it is said that even in those disputed or even criminal proceedings there is no transparency, until then it is impossible to fully exercise any responsibility. And what the coalition is doing, the current coalition, which was carried out by Borut Pahor's coalition, Mr Križanič was a finance minister, or Alenka Bratusek's coalition, means exclusively systemic protection for those who are doing bad or even causing crimes in the banking system. I think that's a serious problem. That something in the operation of the Bank of Slovenia is not good, the statement by Stanislave Zadravec Caprirolo at Tarča also shows when she said when asked about the methodology or input data, she said: "Methodology, which is also individual information about the committees and we cannot and will not publish them; however, more details will be available in court proceedings if the court finds that they are necessary for their assessment. [[…]] But this information will never be published publicly, because then we can all go to jail." Therefore, it is more than clear from the statements made by Banka Slovenije’s most responsible representatives that it is in the functioning of the banking system and the problems that we then pay by recapitalisation or by borrowing from the state’s resources only to protect ourselves from the responsibility to protect ourselves against the initiation of proceedings. And that is why this coalition will probably not allow even the Court of Auditors to interfere with the proper functioning and functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. In some cases, these are the protections that are permitted and caused by members of the Cerara Coalition or earlier by Pahorjeva or Bratuška, in fact, to protect bad decisions. And colleagues have already warned and shown, for example, a number of frauds within the banking system, where governments have been involved. For example, in the last programmed rehabilitation of these two small banks, it is already a very bad indication that something was wrong, because with State aid it ran out of Probank and Factor Bank a lot of money, paid dividends and so on; we paid the citizens. Until the system is opened until it is also possible in cases of obvious abuse to obtain data and responsibility, until then – please tell the citizens – the payers of the recapitalisation and rehabilitation of the banking system will be faithful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Replica, Mr. Križanič, you will tell us what you were misinterpreted about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u68	Your Honor! In fact, governments had limited or virtually no significant impact on credit activity. They were individual projects – that famous withdrawal of the country from the economy that caused the credit wave – then the decision to decompose one part of the reserves that had been placed during the Janša government – which had accelerated credit activity; otherwise governments could not have had a significant impact here. In my opinion, the government does not have the right to influence the Bank of Slovenia, but the National Assembly has a slightly different position here. That is why this law makes sense if it is processed; or whether it is expected that the government will prepare another, perhaps a more consistent law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have been shown to propose again a very similar law with similar content. That's true, but that's for a reason. At that time, there has been no movement in the banking system, which, as we have heard many times, has cost us €5 billion. We know why this has occurred – because of the granting of loans on friendly lines, because of inadequate insurance and also because of the irresponsible behaviour of bank management, supervisory boards of banks and also the regulator of banks, i.e. Banka Slovenije. In view of the many information that has been available in the media, the issue of transparency in the resolution of the banking system is rightly raised by the general public. In particular, there have been many indications in the area of unusual valuation of bank balances. Also, what was in public a few days ago about Banka Slovenije's involvement in the bank's resolution negotiations is totally unacceptable. In view of the large bank hole, i.e. EUR 5 billion, it can rightly be said that the Bank of Slovenia, as the regulator of the banking system, has failed. The Bank of Slovenia must carry out tasks effectively, independently, professionally and in accordance with the applicable legislation. It is her responsibility to have banks act in accordance with this legislation. We can rightly conclude from this that she is responsible for the situation. We can also rightly ask whether Banka Slovenije's reports are appropriate. Is it not some kind of cover-up that we would not otherwise want to reveal to the general public? Since we still have most state-owned banks in Slovenia, all the costs of this hidden information and consequently poor decisions are going to burden taxpayers. In February, the newspaper The Economist stated that Banka Slovenije is ranked on the highest level according to the number of 100,000 inhabitants; not on the European summit, but on the world summit. According to the number of employees, only the Russian Central Bank is included in front of it and, unlike Banka Slovenije, also performs the tasks of payment transport and monetary policy management. As has already been said, comparison with the Swedish Central Bank, I think it is right to think about these data. The Swedish Central Bank has 4.1 employees per 100,000 inhabitants, while in Banka Slovenije we have an average of 21.6 employees per 100,000 population. Now you will say that Banka Slovenije is an independent body – yes; Article 152 of the Constitution says that it is independent in its operation, but it is directly responsible to the National Assembly. Article 152 of the Constitution states in the 12th paragraph: "Parliament must be able to regularly analyse and control the implementation of monetary policy. The Governor of the Central Bank must always be prepared to explain to Parliament and inform him about all matters of monetary policy." So one is the independence of Banka Slovenije in its operation and the other is the direct responsibility of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly. There was a lot of doubt as to the confidentiality of the data in the report. The National Assembly is the one adopting the budget, so it is extremely important that it knows what is behind what it is accepting. And if we were talking about some normal situation, if we weren't talking about bailouts with taxpayer money, if we weren't talking about $5 billion, then we'd still understand why there's so much concern about the confidentiality of this data. But anyway, the National Assembly is entitled to this information. And that's exactly why we've proposed the changes we've made [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Proposer's representative? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I think it has been particularly obvious at this meeting, for the first time, that ministers do not come to the plenary meetings of the National Assembly at all, and for the second time that State secretaries or others who have the authority to represent the views of the Government do not speak at all, do not explain, do not participate in the debate. All these things are going on very unilaterally, as if the government were gone. I don't know why they announced here half an hour and an hour ago. The government did not even try to get involved in the discussion and explain matters, explained. I think that at the meetings of the National Assembly, the Government is an integral part of the process to hold a debate and representatives of the Government are obliged to explain substantive matters, currently, as they appear; not to wait for the time to pass, spend here three, four, five hours following the debates of Members, and then briefly conclude or not at all discuss and go. That's inappropriate. I propose that you inform the President of the National Assembly in writing that when ministers do not have international activities, they represent the Government in the National Assembly at the agenda items directly. And they don't send people to the National Assembly to replace them. But of these compensations, we have already seen at this meeting of the National Assembly, there is no information, no answers, nothing explained. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that you pass this on to the President of the National Assembly and make sure that the Government is represented by ministers who can answer with a mandate, or by those state secretaries or other officials who can speak on behalf of the Government and who will give appropriate answers. That's what we expect from the government, which is why we have it. We don't have the government to accompany the National Assembly meeting. By the way, it can do this on RTV Slo 3 when it monitors the direct transfer in its offices or where the government has its premises. This is inappropriate and shows that the Government is not competent to carry out the tasks entrusted to it by the people with the elections, and also the tasks it has assumed by establishing and designing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I explained the Government’s views in my opening speech to those who listened to it, namely, we defined ourselves in our speech to individual articles more or less. I've heard quite a few things that have been said to be rhetorical. Usually, rhetorical questions should not be answered, although they can. Mr Gorenak said that this is how the ECB said that the opinion of the European Central Bank should be respected. And he, I suppose, rhetorically asked — why should this be respected? Firstly, because Slovenia has voluntarily decided to become part of the European acquis and thus to take over the acts which fall within this order. It is said that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union decides and lays down the powers of the European Parliament which adopts the relevant laws, which the Member State should then respect; both on the side of the countries and then on the other side of the rules of the European Central Bank and the system of European central banks, to which the Slovenian Central Bank also belongs. The question was whether Slovenia really gained confidence in international markets. On 18 March, Slovenia issued a 20-year bond at the historical lowest cost, with a rate of 1.5%. I think this is sufficient proof that Slovenia has definitely gained the confidence of international investors. Mr Tanko asked why and then there were quite a few questions addressed to the representative of the Bank of Slovenia. [[…]] Now I see no representative of the Bank of Slovenia here in Parliament, so that I will be able to defend myself from these issues, perhaps these issues need to be addressed to the right address. As regards the opinion of the European Central Bank on whether Mr Tank's question is that it is possible to resolve the Governor – and that it can do so or decide when the infringements are worse – even within the competence of the National Assembly. The European Central Bank makes it very clear that infringements are always within the jurisdiction of the courts and not the authorities which are considered to be politically guided. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u76	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In conclusion, as a proposaler, I would like to say that during today's debate we have come to the Slovenian Democratic Party to realize that we have tabled a proposal or supplement to the Bank of Slovenia Act for a reason [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u77	Mr. Pogačnik, just a moment. Would you please, please, left like, talk outside?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u78	Banka Slovenije is one of the most important state institutions, the regulator of the banking system. We all know the state of the Slovenian banking system and that most of us have contributed to strengthening this banking system and to the rehabilitation of the taxpayers. It is regrettable that coalition Members and Members in the debate will come to the conclusion that it is necessary to amend and supplement the Bank of Slovenia Act, but will not be supported because it has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is a first reading and I would expect mainly from a coalition which, before the elections and then at the time of its term of office, said they expected some cooperation from the opposition. However, when the opposition offers a hand in cooperation, it has already become a rule that this coalition of the government of Mir Cerar rejects it over and over again. Today is a beautiful opportunity to show that Members and Members of the National Assembly are aware of our responsibilities to act transparently, effectively, by supplementing and amending the Bank Act, and to help the Bank of Slovenia, as an institution, act as a regulator to improve the functioning of the banking system in Slovenia. None of the arguments and reasons given, as it appears, will be taken into account by the coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this law, which we propose, does not reduce any independence of the regulator. Moreover, this law would ensure a more transparent, transparent and, above all, more responsible functioning of the institution than the Bank of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Bank of Slovenia must bear its responsibility for the position created in the banking system and that it is certainly also responsible for the situation. If Banka Slovenije acted more responsibly and faster, it would probably be significantly lower for taxpayers. Above all, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, regardless of whether any institution is independent, this certainly does not mean that this institution does not need quality control. I think that Banka Slovenije as an institution should need this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are disturbed that the coalition probably spends 100% of its time talking about the consequences of the banking system, not the causes. And if we do not eliminate the causes or determine responsibility for the underlying cause and for the bank hole, there is a high risk that Slovenian taxpayers will have to repair the banking system for the third time. Regardless of all the billions invested – the last recovery, €5 billion, December 2013. Even after the then assurances by representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and the Governor that after this rehabilitation we have one of the healthiest banks in Slovenia, there was a shock. The ECB’s stress tests have shown a poor year after this recovery that two of Slovenia’s largest system banks have dropped in stress tests. I am sure that this was a big enough slap for the Bank of Slovenia and that it is also responsible for this situation. On the one hand, we are pleased that the European Central Bank has taken over control of the three largest system banks by amending European legislation. However, we are convinced that Banka Slovenije legally and organisationally needs fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We haven't spent time yet, but it was all your turn. Under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, I give time for discussion if there is still a wish. Please sign up. Here you go, mag. Dušan Verbich, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As I have been running out of time before, I will now allow myself a few words about this so-called bank hole and the proposal of the law of the opposition party SDS. Since it was said by the proposer: yes, if in principle you agree that the bill is a good one, then it would be amended. I must say the following in this regard. I think that all of us here, Members and Members of Parliament, are aware that the area of banking is the one that is likely to be subject to many changes in the coming months. I have to mention again what I mentioned very quickly before, because that is why we will then come to the conclusion that this area needs to be settled; but really to do things not as individuals have said that this law has been implemented quickly. First of all, certainly an investigation into the bank hole and the definition of liability. This is a matter that must go with all the force and energy in action. If I speak from my point of view, I adhere to the principle of legality and believe in the rule of law. As a result, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also taken a decision which has committed certain enforcement authorities to actively engage in this matter. Secondly, directly related to this, and I am joining all those Members and Members, who have already been told many times in this House that the Bank of Slovenia is also responsible for the resulting bank hole, which was created mainly in the period 2008-2013. The circumstances in which this Banka Slovenije Act will have to be systematically launched are certainly what we already know that Banka Slovenije is being reduced in terms of bank prudential supervision. As stated by individuals, we know that the European Central Bank is directly taking control. Furthermore, we are all aware, but we do not know what it means for the Bank of Slovenia and the Slovenian banking area to be included in the monetary union within the EU. What we have somehow encountered is that Banka Slovenije takes over the management of the bank resolution fund. In this case, too, there has been a controversial debate on the parent's working body and we simply cannot avoid it. Close in this context is also the deposit guarantee fund, as we have already touched. Furthermore, I mentioned very quickly earlier that in the case of the adoption of the Bank of Slovenia Bank 2 Banka Slovenije also takes over certain additional activities, namely the specific system for the exchange of information on customer creditworthiness. I am also joining in the thinking of Members and Members about the number of employees or that place about quality. The comparison between Sweden and Slovenia was mentioned earlier. I don't have any doubts here about whether it's right or wrong. And all of these references point to us being involved in amendments to the Act on Banka Slovenije. However, I firmly believe that only through amendment would we not achieve what is needed today. Finally, if the proposer of this law really intended to regulate the whole content of the matter itself, it is unusual for me that in the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Bank of Slovenia Act is still referred to as basic capital. I believe the motioner has overlooked this unwittingly. I conclude that I am aware that the existing law needs to be corrected. On the basis of the comments, the proposals that we have heard today, I think we could come to a good marriage in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, today in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. How nice to meet you, Madam Secretary of State! The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, i.e. ZOFVI, is a statutory law governing education, education from kindergarten to high school end, covers all relevant elements for the definition and establishment of educational institutions, the network of such institutions, their financing, legal identity and organisation, while also setting out the objectives of educational programmes. The law is thus the basis for all other specialised vertical laws. The amendments and additions of the ZOFVI adopted in 2007 introduced solutions to the law on the development of awareness of nationality, national identity and behaviour about the history of Slovenia and its culture. This amendment to the ZOFVI was also followed by an amendment to the Law on Primary School in 2007, which renamed compulsory subjects of Ethics and civic education to Ethics, homeland and civic education. In 2013, this law was re-amended when the subject was renamed Ethika, native and civic education. Despite the record in the legislation, practice shows that the development of awareness of nationality, patriotism, national identity and behaviour about the history of Slovenia and its culture is inconsistent with the marking of the national holidays, which are part of the implementation of the Hemisphere Republic of Slovenia, and with other activities that take place during that period, which is too short for the in-depth development of the awareness of belonging and love of the country. It is estimated that a more in-depth approach to the subject should be made and that these processes should be integrated into the life of the school in all areas. In particular, in primary school, cities are seen, and in secondary schools, in recent times, very worrying appear when students are presented with totalitarian symbols as something positive; thus, the phenomenon of totalitarianism is something acceptable, even positive. Such practice must not only be interrupted, but should be implemented in schools on the basis of European and civil values. Therefore, fundamental values such as patriotism and awareness of fundamental human rights must be included not only in occasional events, school events, but also in the curriculum as such. This means that these values should also be included in the curricula of all subjects in kindergarten, primary school and secondary school. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the ZOFVI amends the provisions on the objectives of education and education and adds a new indent to Article 2 of this Act, which provides that awareness should also be raised against all types of totalitarianism. The law in Article 12 also redefines the obligation to determine ways of integrating patriotism into educational processes. Furthermore, Article 86 of the ZOFVI provides that the private school implementing the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided with 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programmes. On 4 December 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the workplace relating to public education programmes in private schools is inconsistent with the Constitution. We therefore propose that the provision in Article 86 should be amended and that private schools should be aligned with funding in public schools under a 100 % quota. The Council of Europe stated in its 2009 paper on Resolution 9004, that the Council of Europe and the Member States must provide an educational system that ensures equal opportunities and high quality education for all students to provide such knowledge and values as to develop and promote fundamental rights and democratic citizenship. They must also ensure the fundamental right to freedom of choice in education, in accordance with Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. Thus, the amendments to the ZOFVI Act follow the Constitutional Court's decision while at the same time allowing for the integration of patriotic content into primary school, secondary school, all subjects, all content, activities of interest and the whole school space.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport mag. Claudius Marquez.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! I would like to give the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members. I would like to say that on 24 February 2015, a group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes that proposal, which is justified by the following. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed amendment to Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, hereinafter referred to as the ZOFVI Turmin, refer to the Constitutional Court Decision, U-l-269/12-24 of 4 December 2014, which concluded that the first sentence of Article 86 of the ZOFVI is in the work relating to publicly established primary education programmes, in breach of the Constitution. With the proposed amendment, which provides that private primary schools implementing the programme referred to in Article 86(1) of the ZOFVI shall be provided with 100 per cent of the funding allocated by the State or the local community for the implementation of the primary school programme; and discriminatory financing of private primary schools should be eliminated. In addition, the SDS Group proposed to supplement Article 2 of the ZOFVI, which sets out the objective of education and education with a new objective of education for free society by condemning all totalitarianism. In this context, it is also proposed to supplement Article 12 of the ZOFVI, which redefines the obligation to determine the way in which patriotism is involved in educational programmes. The new bill assesses that the financial implications of the proposed law at annual level would bring an additional EUR 390 000 for the state budget; of course, not during the period for which the state budget has already been adopted. These financial implications relate only to the amendment of Article 86 of the Education and Education Financing Act. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the proposed amendment of the law and, with regard to the proposed amendments and additions, has adopted a position that the proposed solutions are not based on previous analyses, which are the basis for assessing the situation and preparing the main solutions to the changes and supplementing the law. The proposed changes relating to the financing of private primary schools are, in the view of the Government, flawed as private education problems do not fully address. They only summarise the decisions of the Constitutional Court in the work relating to the level of financing of private schools. In this way, they take into account only the aspect of private school funding and do not address the status of private schools and do not address issues relating to the adoption of private school programmes and the fulfilment of the conditions for their entry into the register of public education providers in the field of education and education. An amendment to the Law on Financing for Education and Education is already being prepared at the competent ministry, which will truly regulate the private education sector comprehensively in terms of financing private schools and the regulation of the status of private schools. With regard to the proposed supplement relating to the objectives of education and education, we stress that, despite the importance of developing awareness of nationality, national identity and knowledge of the history of Slovenia and its culture, a thorough analysis of the current situation in the field of existing education programmes in primary and secondary schools should be made prior to the adoption of that supplement. In this regard, it is also necessary to determine to what extent the proposed content is already covered by primary and secondary education programmes. Since the proposed solutions in the new ZOFVI only take into account the financing aspect of existing private schools, they do not represent the real financial consequences that such funding will have in the future. However, the new ZOFVI, which is being prepared at the Ministry of Education, will contain precisely those systemic solutions that will take account of the current fiscal situation. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education introduced by the Group of Members in the legislative process. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will put in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law that will adequately regulate the topic submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u86	Madam Minister, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education brings very important changes. We Christian Democrats recently highlighted the harmonisation of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia when appointing the new Minister as the first point of our expectations. Ladies and gentlemen of the SDS have come to your aid and saved you a lot of work, even though you say you'll be preparing your marriage soon. When establishing non-compliance with the provisions on the co-financing rate of the implementation of the publicly applicable primary education programmes, the Constitutional Court found, inter alia, that primary education is compulsory in Slovenia. Parents have the right to choose primary schooling for their children in a public or private school which carries out a publicly valid primary school programme or at home. From a survey of primary schools in the Republic of Slovenia we find that in Slovenia there are 458 primary schools, of which only three are private contractors of a publicly valid primary school program, that is only 0.7%. Then why is it such a fear that private education will destroy public schools? We Christian Democrats once again find that the country still has a rather negative attitude towards private education, which is a fundamental violation of the right of parents to choose how to train their children. The fact is that only one person receives 100 % co-financing from private providers of a publicly valid primary school programme, i.e. equivalent to state schools and only two 85% of the funds remain. Let us stress that it is the means to provide salaries and other personal benefits and to cover the material costs of the activities and tasks necessary to carry out the educational activity. The Constitutional Court explicitly stated that the application and the resulting decision and explanations do not relate to investment, investment maintenance and equipment and that they do not relate to the specific content offered by private primary schools, such as confessional education and others. The decision on non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers solely and exclusively to the different state funding of publicly applicable primary school programmes in different schools. Christian Democrats are convinced that private schools are an asset to Slovenian school space because they provide choices, improve the quality of education and promote healthy competitiveness, but above all they are cheaper for the country than state schools. In accordance with our programme, Christian Democrats also support the obligation to integrate patriotic content into educational programmes. We also hope that the novel will bring about a better integration of modern research, findings and lessons from neutral experts to explore new Slovenian history in subjects of primary and secondary schools. This is the only way we will face all the facts of our history, accept it as our own, even if we do not always like it; and thus overcome the divisions and blockades that plague the development of our country. Above all, it is an objective record of the facts in the lesson to young generations to look more objectively at the past, and above all not to repeat the same mistakes made by our ancestors. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The SD, Desus Group, the United Left and the Alliance tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution in February this year. The purpose of the initiative is a clear distinction between public and private education. The proposal was created in response to December 2014 by a decision taken by the Constitutional Court, which, in our view, is controversial and also inconsistent with the 2001 decision of the same court. Only six days after the introduction of the constitutional amendment initiative, today's proposal for the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education was tabled. The proposed amendment to Article 86, which would provide 100 % of the funding of the public school compulsory school curriculum for private schools, is by no means the only change that would be expected in this debate, namely in the debate on the delimitation of public and private education. The temptations to open ideological issues such as national liberation, the patriotic upbringing of children from kindergarten onwards are all too attractive for them to resist; although it is only a matter of funding publicly recognised programmes in private schools. The question of whether we finance private institutions from public funds has already, as has been said, been twice employed by the Constitutional Court. In 2001, the court took a decision and I quote that. "The idea that parents are children who send children to private schools and have to pay tuition is not justified in relation to those whose children attend public schools from the point of view of the Constitution. The legislator's decision to finance the state in its entirety only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution." In the Alliance, we will not be dealing with the question of whether it is, as some claim, a desire to privatise public education throughout the school vertical. Only the National Assembly, both the Alliance, has the right as founder to maintain in the Constitution the fundamental values of this company, which it has already enshrined in the Constitution in 1991; namely that the primary concern of the State in the field of primary education is the provision of public school funding from public funds. By supplementing the Constitution, we will only achieve that the Constitution states that public education is a value, as has already been interpreted in 2001, and will thus become the only form of primary education that has this kind of legal protection. Therefore, the proposal for constitutional amendments is without prejudice to the eluded relationship between public and private primary education, provides the same funding as before and will clearly oblige the legislator to take primary care of public education. We believe that the draft amendments to the Constitution support the principle of state neutrality and pluralism in the national educational system. In any event, it is without prejudice to the right to establish private schools and the possibility for these schools to form part of the national educational system. It is true, however, that it primarily ensures the survival and quality of the public school network. In the Alliance, therefore, we do not oppose the limited funding of private primary schools implementing the publicly applicable educational programme. Private schools, in our opinion, enrich the school space with different pedagogy or allow parents to train their children in institutions with the same global view that they are raising their children. However, we do not agree that the latter should impoverish the network of public primary schools. Private schools can therefore, in our view, be co-financed to a limited extent in the manner prescribed by the law. And if I touch on a little bit more civic education, when the awareness of belonging and national identity is brought up to children in kindergartens and later throughout education. It will probably be enough to say that different ministers, especially the right-hand side, had different ideas that they tried to enforce; however, it turns out that the results were not as expected. But we understand that the right-hand side is clearly tightening the muscles in showing patriotism in implementing ideas and proposing unusual proposals that are obviously not part of a law that should primarily address the financing of public and private education. In the Alliance, we believe that such content is already included in the curriculum and that the international comparative research carried out has shown that knowledge of the content mentioned is not so bad. Domestic and civic education has been of particular interest since the beginning of the independent state and is therefore included among the basic objectives of education and education within the framework of the education and education system. However, if I link the proposals already put forward by today's proposer in this National Assembly, which are related to the anthem and the question of national liberation, the attitude towards partisanism, I am sorry, I can't help but feel that you want to sell our political views under the cover of funding. The biggest opposition party again in this novel proposes the content that we had at the table last year or at the beginning of this year, and before that almost every year in the previous term. It is a topic that the applicant manages to include almost every document, irrespective of the basic content. This is a conviction of all totalitarianism, with SDS in mind mainly communism, NOV and partisans. In the Alliance's Group, we are convinced that history and associated symbols, such as the Red Star, do not change every day, especially because of the daily needs of the SDS party. It seems particularly inappropriate for us that the SDS Group will reintroduce this debate at the 70th anniversary of liberation and victory over Nazism in World War II. I would like to remind the applicants that for most Slovenians, partisans with a red star, a liberation front and a NOB represent symbols of freedom and resistance against Nazi invaders and their associates from 1941 to 1945. These symbols are also linked to the roots of Slovenian statehood, and most of them see the main force in which the partisan struggle ensured the survival of the national community. Let us remember what they swore at that time – that they will give all their powers and abilities to liberate the things of the Slovenian people, the working people and all the advanced and free people in the world of war against the fascist oppressors; that they will not put down their weapons until the complete victory over the fascist invader and the full realization of the great liberation goal of the Slovenian people. If necessary, they will also sacrifice their lives for their people. I wonder if this oath is not the highest possible reflection of the values of patriotism. Let me end the Alliance's position with a very fair statement by the NOB Association of Fighters on this venerable anniversary that history can be forged, "freedom and freedom never". We will not support the Alliance's Group on the basis of the above-mentioned arguments for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u90	Dear fellows! In the SMC Group, we place education and education as a fundamental policy for a man who is one of the key building blocks of society. In view of this, the content of the roof law governing the entire educational vertical is particularly important. Let us begin by stressing that the development of national and patriotic consciousness is already part of the Slovenian school system at different levels from preschool education further. This is also clearly stated in the existing educational objectives and complete with the targeted content within the various subjects and their curricula. Regardless of this, we are aware of the need to strengthen these content and to educate and educate national and civil literacy and democratic values; but not in the way and through the changes they are trying to introduce in a politically exclusive way. Upgrading the content of national and civil education must be based on expertise and modern social concerns and considerations. Compared to the applicants, we stand firm in the view that these content should be upgraded in content and expertise rather than in political or even ideological positions. Consciousness of fundamental human rights and obligations is not only linked to the domestic aspect but also to civic education, which the applicants in the draft law forget about. The active participation of individuals in the work of society always goes hand in hand, with love for the country, a positive attitude toward the nation and national consciousness. Civil and domestic education is inevitably also linked to values – but not to values that separate, but to those that link, strengthen and draw closer. Domestic education is always a "yes" education and not a "against" education. We also wonder whether the systematic addition of learning plans to home-schooling in all subjects makes sense, given that home-schooling is primarily related to socio-humanistic learning content. In the Group, we also believe that all school content that a school can create in the spirit of patriotic values is of paramount importance, without the need to amend legislation. With regard to the proposed supplement relating to the financing of private schools, with which the applicants are actually following the 2014 Constitutional Court decision, we consider that the amendment is not comprehensive or raises other issues affecting private schools such as. their status, acceptance of educational programmes, entry into the register of public service providers and so on. Our programming guidelines in this area are clear, while respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The private implementation of the educational activity is understood as a complement to the public, which guarantees the right of parents and children to choose. In the wake of the amendment to Article 86 of the Act, which takes into account only the aspect of the level of funding of existing private primary schools, we believe that the issue needs to be addressed more comprehensively than the proposed amendments to the law do. Since the education and education sector of the homeland has an important role to play in achieving the long-term objectives of the public education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia and since the issue of private schools is not only related to the level of funding, the successive changes to the basic law that we are discussing today must be deliberate, planned, professional and coordinated. For the above reasons, we will not support the new law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u92	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, everyone's welcome! This novel of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, namely ZOFVI, as we all know, is two simple solutions. In a normal country of law, it is ethical and moral, but in particular, respect for the constitutional order and respect for its own country should not be an obstacle to its adoption. One solution follows a very precise decision of the Constitutional Court of December last year when the Constitutional Court found that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes. Because this government has a lot to do with itself when ministers come and go every month, we decided in the SDS to do their work. Because it's a very simple solution. Article 57(2) of the Constitution now states: primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. Article 86 of the ZOFVI currently in force, contrary to that Article of the Constitution, provides that a private school implementing the public programme shall be responsible for the implementation of the programme only 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. The State therefore only finances the implementation of the programme, but not investments and equipment in private school; for the law is clear. Private schools do not have funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment. We therefore wish to follow strictly the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we hope in the SDS that today's debaters and the new minister have read. Because then support for the law would be self-evident. Well, in order not to have a problem with the financial consequences, we have placed the implementation of the funding in the mid-term date 1 September 2016 so that the coalition does not stumble into how we are affected by the already adopted budget for 2015. Here, too, is our exact calculations for the maximum amount of EUR 400 000 at the annual level – the maximum amount. For the matter of regulating the law in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Decision. Well, when one reads the government's position, one would be greatly surprised; they would be as simple a matter as the constitutional decision, rescue, quote, "systemically, with preliminary analyses and possibilities of impact". We wonder what is to be analysed if the Constitutional Court's decision is clear, simple and simple?Oh, my God! This means that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, which in practice means that schools implementing the public programme, namely private and public, should be provided with 100 % of the funding for the implementation of the programme. Moreover, the government even writes that the proposed changes are flawed. I ask the distinguished representatives of the Government if we have all read the same constitutional decision together. Then, in his opinion, the government writes another fog that we do not solve matters in full. Your Honor, we are handling the matter exactly as required by the Constitutional Court's decision, as required by the Constitutional Court. The new government is going even further, according to the Government's mantra, of course, the Ministry is already preparing the amendment of the ZOFVI, which will "collectively regulate the private education sector, both in terms of financing private schools and in terms of regulation of the status of private schools". One is the opinion; in practice, we all know that ZOFVI can go around following various departments' handicrafts, and finally we all know what the effect will be. We will probably have to wait for the SDS to reintroduce this law once again in September, because the coalition, despite all experts, will not be able to regulate the law as provided for by the Constitutional Court. We want to know why you didn't just write down that you're going to wait for a change to the Constitution, where you're going to want to just delete private education, as already announced by your colleagues in SD, and the support is already being announced by customers from the so-called left block. We'd do anything to bypass the constitutional decision. Apparently, this is about the expulsion of private primary schools. At any cost, they even said so on the Education Committee or likely soon the desire to end private health care, the private economy, and final private property will follow. As if this government does not understand the decision of the Constitutional Court, which speaks solely of primary schools, public and private primary schools, and the equivalence of their programmes. Private schools, once again, do not have the means to invest, investment maintenance and equipment. The government, however, says that the bill does not represent real financial consequences, but it itself does not have the courage to record in its opinion their assessment of the financial consequences. Indeed, analyses will be prepared that will together form a whole that will be the basis for reflection and discussions on options that will then be aligned with stakeholders in the field of education. Finally, a proposal will be made to abolish private education. The decision or decision of the Constitutional Court – ah, we have ethics and morality. The already well-fed private education at all levels, compared with other European countries, is clearly still a lot of fun for some. It is about the fear of enriching private primary schools, and in practice it looks like we have 3 private primary schools and, according to the latest data, 744 public primary schools. 3 to 744. Yes, fear among certain political parties has very large eyes. Dearly beloved, the golden times for the establishment of private schools are over. Everyone boasts that the financial situation of the church is not exciting in order to open up their schools; yet, even on the basis of the laws or regulations and regulations of that government there are many other problems and they do not engage in the establishment of private schools. We see no fear in the SDS to establish private primary schools. Well, even if one were to be established, the ratio would be 4 to 744 — great fun. In the SDS, we expected hope to bring about the fact that we have a new Minister of Education, whom we hoped to respect constitutional decisions. We hoped that the Minister would attach to our thinking that schools should be divided into good and bad; not to public and private. We also hoped that the Minister would agree that every minor competition brought progress and development. In addition to aligning the law with the decision of the Constitutional Court in the SDS, we also propose that education and education be added to the objectives of free society, to condemn all totalitarianism, and that general education programmes also include a way of integrating the principles of patriotism into curricula. If we read this text in a Central European country to develop a legal democratic state, we would probably be asked what your problem is. We probably wouldn't understand, but even less believe that we still have celebrations and celebrates holidays and people from the previous communist regime, and that even Members have huge problems when you ask them when the day of statehood and sometimes the day of independence and unity is celebrated. Well, at home we'd say that's what we've got. Usually, however, historical textbooks or at least the treatment of substances in history end shortly after World War II; perhaps someone in the next teacher is still caught up in the 1980s. Slovenians as a nation? Let us look at cases abroad — everyone proud of his people, his country, his country, his country, his nationality. What about us? For 25 years, we have our own country, and we are categorised as a nation, apart from the negotiating lack of confidence and decency, not respecting its history or its symbols, at least in comparison with other European nations or countries. In the SDS, we believe that instead of being intimidated by patriotism, it is necessary to give this area an important place in the Slovenian education system. Otherwise, a small step had already been taken in 2007 with one of the amendments to the ZOFVI when solutions were introduced to the law on the development of awareness of nationality and national identity and knowledge of the history of Slovenia and its culture. If more children in primary school than Members of the National Assembly, due to changes in this law, know when the day of statehood or the day of independence and unity is celebrated and what are the substantive reasons for celebrating these two holidays or why we are free during these two days of work, a great step forward will be taken. We must not forget, however, the new holiday, which we introduced recently on the proposal of our colleague Dolinska; on 25 October, we should remember the departure of the last JLA soldier from Slovenia. It is also a law that pays attention to patriotism and, on the other hand, to free society or the state, by condemning all totalitarianism. Both the Holiday Act and today's ZOFVI novels are important, as in particular in primary schools there are strong concerns when students are presented with totalitarian symbols as something positive and acceptable. Therefore, in our view, the SDS's proponents, such as patriotism and awareness of fundamental human rights, should not only be included as occasional events in schools, but rather incorporated into the curriculum. This means that, and possibly, these values and ways should be included in the curricula of all possible subjects in the programme. Obviously, however, the government, the former minister and apparently the current minister do not agree, as the government has written down in its opinion, you will not believe that "it is necessary to make an accurate analysis of the current situation, which will be based on the appropriate solutions". In our opinion, in the SDS, this is exactly what it calls and smells like in copyright fees in the field of education. Well, it is likely that after careful consideration, even more analyses will be made, each one will be paid fairly. In the end, it will probably be the one where it will be written that there is no need to introduce changes in this area. To conclude, we will support the proposed amendment in the SDS. This is the first consideration of the bill. The space and time for possible changes is more than enough during the parliamentary procedure. In particular, in the SDS, we are interested in the new Minister's personal opinion on the proposed law. Whether the copy-paste version will be followed by the former minister and her ideology or will try to give her personal stamp to this area. If the new Minister and the government coalition defends the opinion of the former Minister, we look forward in the SDS to the completion of all the analyses that will, after careful consideration, give a super systemic and substantive solution in the bill that will implement the Constitutional Court decision and give the patriot an appropriate place in the curriculum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u93	The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to read you the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. Proposals for a new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the text under consideration aim at two basic sets. The first concerns the objectives of education and education and the resulting content of learning plans. On the proposal of the SDS Group, the school should educate and educate for free society and condemn all totalitarianism. This topic is specific and does not go to be highlighted in particular; it must be linked to the other objectives of the educational system, which is mainly general and neutral in our society. It must also be dealt with in the context of time and space, the causes of creation, in short, not only with the political eyes of today. In our group, we have no doubt that students and students receive sufficient information and knowledge about all the historically existing social systems that have ever ruled in human history in the learning of basic subjects and related interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary content. It is right to get such knowledge; it is right to see all the injustices or, if you will, the horrors caused by individual regimes for mankind. Our children are certainly familiar with this in our school today. In this paper, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposes that the educational programmes also include a way of integrating the principles of patriotism into curricula. The inclusion would result in the systematic inclusion of patriotism as a special subject. The sixth indent of Article 2 of the Act, which speaks of the aims of education and education, has already in some way highlighted the content of patriotism. Thus, the "development of awareness of nationality and national identity and knowledge of the history of Slovenia and its culture" has already been quite clearly defined by the content already incorporated and implemented in pre-school, primary and secondary school programmes, curricula and curricula. Let us also recall the recently adopted decision of the Committee of the National Assembly on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. After a very comprehensive discussion on a similar topic – a proposal for the introduction of civic and domestic education and ethics as a secondary school subject – we have decided that before the possible addition of educational programmes, a thorough analysis of the existing elements of civic and domestic education and an analysis of the possible need to strengthen these content should be made. In view of this, it certainly seems premature for us in the Desus Group to adopt amendments to the law without the relevant findings of the profession today. Let's wait. According to the results of the results of the competent ministry, the Institute of Education, the Professional and Professional Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education and the Professional Public will be given the opportunity, of course, to strengthen the content of the curriculum with a more stressed patriotic note. The second topic of amendments and the amendment of the law is related to the recent decision of the Constitutional Judges on the financing of private education. On 18 February this year, the Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Matjaž Han submitted a proposal for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with a draft Constitutional Law. In doing so, we are Members and Members of Desus, co-signers of this act. The Group advocates the protection of the constitutional category of the social state, which consequently means that we are committed to maintaining public education. In doing so, we will always insist in the Group of Members, as only through public service forms can the State guarantee rights to all and under equal conditions. Of course, it is very important that public education is accessible to all, and because it is compulsory for all, even neutral in terms of ideological beliefs, world views, religious and philosophical views. This is what our parliamentary group believes, however, the current system of public primary education fully ensures. At the same time, the organisational and territorial network of public primary schools is well managed, and the quality of our public primary education is good. The proposed changes to this novel concerning the financing of private primary schools are contrary to our belief, even though the decision of the Constitutional Court is as it is; or as it is interpreted. However, a new constitutional aspect of primary education is also needed, according to the assessment of the Desus Group, because the current constitutional record is so general that the highest court and the highest guardian of the Constitution and the legislative compliance can interpret it completely differently over a period of several years. The National Assembly must address the position of the Constitutional Court, which is due, but the elected body has the right and the duty to form its position on the problem referred to; especially because the Constitutional Court of 2001 explained that "the legislator's decision to finance the state entirely is only public schools where all parents can enter their children in the field of their assessment and therefore is not inconsistent with the Constitution". To this end, in a separate rejection opinion on the last constitutional decision of 4. 12. 2014 also confirms one of the constitutional judges, who says, "to what extent the state will finance primary education is its sovereign right". To conclude or summarize our position on this novel. In the Desus Group, we believe that the content of the proposed amendments is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u95	Ms Andreja Katič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Without analysis, without reflection and without consultation of the professional and interested public, these words can be used to summarise the activities of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the field of education and education in the last few mandates. The result of such a system of destructive action is also a proposal for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of the education and education ahead of us. [[Incomprehensible]] Clearing the border between the public and the private is for social democrats, who advocate access to public services for all, unacceptable in all areas of society. We are particularly sensitive when these experiments are carried out on the education and education system. This is the only correction that enables the most socially vulnerable part of the population in particular to ensure a better life than it did in the environment from which it grew. Success does not only affect his position, but in the environment he places such an important sign of hope. Small competitiveness also seeks to implement the principles of a free economic initiative in areas where it works and works well. In order to achieve this, they are poorer in the field of public policy with restrictive budgetary policy. Of course, the lack of resources affects quality, and the frog is only one and always half empty. In playing, they cynically see opportunities to achieve new quality. But privately, those idols do not leave the functioning of the free market, but in their view even legitimately require permanent access to budgetary resources. One of the areas that has been continuously affected by attempts to create a parallel system for the public is education and education. Part of the political and interested public, the community, is constantly creating a private ideological apparatus as a means where new social relations are reproduced in order to achieve a partial political objective. Until recently, the public primary education system has also enjoyed the highest, constitutional support in addition to the public. In the decision of Constitutional Court No. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has ruled that the legislator's decision to provide full funding to only public schools in which all parents can enroll their children is not contrary to the Constitution. However, five judges of the Constitutional Court of the present reference gave the opposite opinion and in it ordered the National Assembly to grant public financing in the same way as private and to provide the necessary public funding. The opinion adopted unanimously by the nine Constitutional Judges in 2001 was also trampled on by Peterina judges not only on the opinions of four colleagues who opposed the decisions; she also questioned the opinion adopted unanimously by nine Constitutional Judges in the previous decision. The weak legal argument thus gives the impression that the decision was politically enforced. Furthermore, the decision of the five judges of the Constitutional Court, which is not consistent with the judgments of international courts and legal standards based on international documents, is not supported by the proposal under consideration by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thus, in one of its decisions, the European Court of Human Rights has concluded that the State is not obliged to establish or finance private schools but must not prevent or prevent their establishment and operation. Nor do international declarations and conventions require countries to financially support private primary education; however, it is true that they do not prohibit it. From this point of view, it is also possible to understand the views of the institutions mentioned above and the fact that, as a rule, countries devote a lower share of public funding to private education than to public education. In the debate on the problem, another issue is underestimated at all times, at least for the future of education in Slovenia. Five judges and a candidate for the novel open up a place where it enters the private sector in public; it does not have a proportionate impact on what is happening in this private work, given the funding. This makes it possible to intertwine between public and private, which creates the impression that it is public private; or worse that it is private public. In primary education cases, this constitutes a direct violation of the legal and constitutional principles in lay schools and a world-class neutral school. Finally, the European Commission also recognises human rights when it adopts the view that no country has the duty to care for the support of a special educational institution serving particular religious or philosophical beliefs. If this part of the debate is placed in the context of, in particular, religious pressures on public education, such as the extension of the study areas of the Theological Faculty by teaching teachers, the picture is at least slightly clearer. At the end of this work, we also note that the current regulation, internationally speaking, is already more than generous to private education in Slovenia. The statistical cross-section shows that private education in Europe is so generously supported by public funds as in Slovenia only in the Netherlands, Belgium, Finland and Sweden. Except for the latter, none of the others benefit from 100% public funding. In addition to the provision on public financial care for private primary education, the applicants propose two additional additions, which were forged in an ideological laboratory. As such, they do not need comment, but – education for free society by condemning all totalitarianism and integrating patriotism into education content is part of the curriculum and has been in Slovenian public education for many years. The exclusive adoption of a common human theme by those who do not recognize the acquisition of a free society, who do not respect fundamental state symbols, such as an anthem that does not respect the brightest events of past national history, such as the resistance to the occupying power, cannot be described as anything but an expression of a cheap demagogue policy. However, it may be the decision of the proposer to include in a proposal for a new law the regulation of 100 per cent of public financial support for private world-based foreign education, requiring further instruction for free society and patriotism, is not just a coincidence; or rather. In the Group of Social Democrats, a new step towards undermining a quality, accessible and ideologically unladen system of education and education will not be supported. We also express our expectation that, before further non-professional attempts to realize the will of the five judges of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly will adopt a position on the proposal to supplement the Constitution, which we have drawn up and signed in the Parliamentary Joint Social Democrats in charge of public education. In conclusion, we stress that the debate on entering the private field is public decision-making for the future of this country; whether we will have the same opportunities for all. At the very least, what Social Democrats are demanding is respect for Article 2 of the Constitution, which stipulates that Slovenia is a social state. This can only be ensured by ensuring the quality and accessibility of all services in public institutions; primary education has a central place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u98	President, thank you so much for your word. The proposal for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted by the SDS, with two types of measures, indicates the main trends that destroy the foundations of a public, accessible and quality school system. On the one hand, the proposal foresees a reduction in public school funding and favouritism of private education; on the other hand, it seeks to enforce certain right-wing ideologies or conservative world views into public laziness schools. We are not only opposed to both changes in the United Left, but we are assessing them as a threat to quality, accessible public education for all. The decision of the Constitutional Court on the financing of publicly recognised private school programmes is not in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is not in accordance with the interests of most people in that country. Constitutional judges and judges have their views, and this time they are — and this is not a lonely decision — taking a small majority to the side of private interest in the detriment of public, common interest. The right path is to amend Article 57 of the Constitution and to clearly defend public education. In recent years, education and education, if not decades, have been the subject of an extremely negative trend in intrusion of private interests into the public good. For private schools, this is a special form of public-private partnership where private interests are financed through public funds. It is logical that the private owner of the school does not have and cannot have the same interest as the State; whether he wishes to include his beliefs in profit or in the curriculum in some way. On the other hand, private interest in the form of cooperation with the economy, the neoliberal mantra, which is repeated both by the right and by the left. The solution is a consistent separation between private and public. At the same time, they would step on the privileged elites in the public sector, which are rich in fees at the expense of most employees. In the United Left, we strongly oppose the public financing of private schools, those with concessions and those without them. What does an additional 15% of private school funding mean? Fully funded private schools will only be able to achieve higher standard education through a small contribution of parents with tuition, leading to the long-term domination of private education over public education. Such education is not universally available, but it is selectively based on property, which strengthens class divisions in society, as we receive one school system for the poor and another for the rich. In addition, let us not forget how, due to austerity measures and belt tightening, public education is absolutely undernourished, yet new and new cuts are being announced over and over and over again. In the same ways that they are severely saving, they are parasitic to private schools. It is a clear, neo-liberal attack on public education that leads to increasing commercialisation, increasingly poor quality and increasing inequality in society. Education and knowledge must be accessible to all, since intellectual heritage is the property of all mankind. At the same time, from a development perspective, quality and accessible public education is an alternative to peripheral underdevelopment, where, through privatisation, belt tightening and structural reforms, all the last governments are taking us without exception. Let me give a few words to another trend, which is generated only by the right, which is what I think alongside political parties on this side of the National Assembly and their satellite organizations is also the high cleric of the Roman Catholic Church. This trend is not limited to education, but because of its specific role in education, it is very strong, because the school is the one that has the strongest impact on individual opinion and behaviour. It is the intrusion of historical revisionism, antisocialism and the defamation of the struggle for national and social liberation. This takes place under the symbol of totalitarianism, with which the right hand tries to equalize Nazism, fascism and communism, with only demonization of the latter. The entanglement with the word totalitarianism is not new and is not modern. Decades ago, during the Cold War, it became popular in the propaganda war against all systems that did not swear on capitalism and Euro-Atlantic integration. It serves the same purpose today. To blacken and stop all left alternatives that we want to end the predominance of the great neoliberal coalition, left-centre and right-wing parties. Education for a free society by condemning all totalitarianism – this is how the SDS wants to be incorporated into the law. What kind of free society is this? A society of market freedom that frees working people from the social security offered by public education and health care?Oh, my God! A free society that forces 99% of people to fully submit to capital?Oh, my God! A free society that discriminates against women and national and LBGT minorities?Oh, my God! It is a free society that is freed from the future for young people, free from working rights, a decent survival of old age and a decent life for all. This is a free society promoted by the SDS, a free society of capitalism. Finally, only a reference to patriotism and national ownership. With these words, almost all politicians, from the right to the right to the right, and left - centered parties, are knocking on their chests. All those who agree to the neoliberal consensus, all those who privatize our common assets, which you are fully servile to the Brussels technocrats, is that patriotism? Is it patriotic submission to international capital, the sale of national sovereignty for change, the invocation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel or American ambassadors, which they prefer to do right in front of the proponents, in the SDS? Those considered to be the greatest and most zealous patriots today have sacrificed the rights and standards of the majority of people and people of Slovenia by means of the most acute austerity and privatisation measures. In the United Left, we absolutely reject the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We reject them because it is a continuation of the neoliberal attack on public education because it is a re-invasion of right-wing ideology into the school system. We reject them because in the United Left we firmly support the laity, quality and accessible public education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Ms Jelki Godec's representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I have to say a little bit of a joke, it seems to me like I'm at the Avno meeting so many years ago, given what we're thinking about patriotism. I don't understand if I say patriotism, you start talking about some negative thing right now, about ideology, about separation, about glorification, I don't know what. I literally do not understand this matter, because for me it also means to hang the flag on the castle, it means to hang the flag at the public holidays, it means to protect the homeland of Slovenia, speak the Slovenian language, have your identity and so on. And far from talking about some ideological themes in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is what you have now opened, literally, with the last two debates you have opened. The survival of the nation requires more than material prosperity, which, of course, we want to give to our craftsmen, to our children, to our families. It is also important in what cultural spirit we train craftsmen or young people to raise them in the consciousness that the Slovenians are proud of their nation. To learn their identity, to defend their own language, culture and history. Our national consciousness, Slovenian national consciousness or the struggle of the Slovenian nation has never been directed against anyone else; but we have always fought for our existence, in this territory where we are today; and that we live in a independent Slovenia and that we live, thank God, in peace. It is true, though, that in these days or this year or the last period, we are being translated into an apathy, the milkiness of the citizens. Every word, when we say patriotism, is the right word to turn the matter away from the point of turning the matter back into 1945. But no one talks about it, at least not on our side. I must say that in the Republic of Slovenia – you also found this by the coalition when you supported Mr Dolinsk's proposal under the new law – began the development of democracy and free society when we adopted Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and defined it as a democratic republic. And the magnification of totalitarian regimes today is not based on constitutional democratic values, but on the values of the regime before independence. And dress up as pioneers, you've seen it all on the Internet, you probably don't have to explain it again, but in the Partisans, waving with Yugoslav flags – if you want to talk about it because you opened this topic – symbolizes the former totalitarian regime. And every glorification of such a regime is unconstitutional. This is also the subject of Constitutional Court decision No. U-l-109/10, who refused or spoke of the unconstitutional appointment of one of the streets in Ljubljana by Titus. Read that constitutional decision if you are already referring to all constitutional decisions. The adoption of independent documents in Slovenia has not only led to a break in the country-level link between Slovenia and the former Republic of Yugoslavia, but has also led to a break in the current values or the concept of values of the then common country. Human dignity is a fundamental value that predominates all legal order and therefore has objective importance in the functioning of authority in concrete procedures and in the adoption of regulations. And today, some of the discussers were talking about two things, or you didn't even know what our amendment to the Law was talking about. We are not talking about introducing a new subject into schools, high school, which was discussed on the committee that you quoted as having adopted the committee to analyse matters. Yeah, that's when we talked about introducing a new civic education course into high school. Today we're talking about something completely different. And some of you haven't read the bill at all. And already on the committee, Mr Pikalo, former former Minister, has told you that these analyses have been done. The analysis was carried out in 2010. And he wrote that it was waiting in the drawer and that the current government or the current government could pull out the analysis at any time, and he was waving a document at us there. And he said he agreed with the introduction of civic education in secondary school; therefore, I am surprised that today the SD is so opposed because it was their minister. So there are analyses. That's one thing. That's another thing. When we accepted Mr Dolinsk's proposal for a new holiday in Slovenia, which is 25 October, when the last soldier of the Yugoslav Army left Slovenia, you were thrilled, you were happy that we would mark another crucial moment in the Republic of Slovenia, another moment when the link between the totalitarian regime ended. But today, when I can say lifelong education in the ZOFVI or in all education, we want to include free society education among the goals, condemning all totalitarianism, that is, everyone; but you say that it is not appropriate for the SDS to speak, I don't know, about patriots, I don't know what we're talking about. See, patriotism or condemnation of all totalitarian regimes – this is also the subject of the 2009 European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, when they condemned everything from fascism to Nazism to communism. And you're saying that we're making up some new legal stuff and I don't know what kind of decision. And the involvement of patriotism, if you're saying that this is all already involved, then I don't know why we're so shy about implementing these content. I must say that from practice I know that some teachers are more, some are nothing or less; therefore totally dependent on the teacher. And all that needs to be analysed is this – these are all curriculums that contain civic education. That should be analyzed. And I don't think it's necessary to tell you again that Mr Pikalo said that this has already been analyzed and that the profession has already told its own. This has been said on the committee to which you refer. Isn't that right, Mr. Prickl? Yes, it is. It's patriotic content. Speaking of patriotism, don't take it negative. I would say that we take it positive and if no one would mind, because this was understood today, "we do not oppose the introduction of patriotism, this needs to be introduced, we need to be raised for patriotism, civic education and so on" but because it is proposed by the SDS and it certainly means this and that. Now I can't quote you because I didn't write to myself, but I was wondering what we didn't mean. I really don't know. You can include patriotism in all subjects, extracurricular, extracurricular activities, kindergarten, family. Of course, education begins first in the family, and I agree that it should be there first. Content related to patriotism can be found in Slovenian, ethics, home and civic education, history, geography, sociology, and all others, as teachers also train by their example. And if the students ask why the Slovenian flag hangs today, the teacher says, oh, that doesn't matter now – it's also education, it's patriotism, it's also a reflection of something. When we talk about patriotism, we talk about raising the development of patriotic consciousness in students, developing cultural competences based on patriotism, critical thinking, human rights, democracy and so on. Also belonging to the country and all the milestones that led the Slovenians to their independence. All the milestones! You should also be aware of that. I think we could be proud that Mr Dolinšek proposed such a thing, and it seems a little strange to us that for June 25th he is dressing children in pioneers and waving with Yugoslav flags. I hope the current minister is betrothed because I really hope she hasn't thought about what she's talking about. He says he doesn't see the problem if it's a topical or patriotic matter. Please! You have stated to Mr Dolinšk that this was the milestone and we will no longer have it in Slovenia, should not have it since then, but it certainly still exists. That is why we are talking about patriotism, and that is why we are talking about condemning all totalitarian regimes, because this is also what the European Conventions are talking about, and our Constitution is talking about. And let us also prove once that patriotism is the attitude towards culture, nation, identity; and not only what you yourselves have exhibited today. As far as private education is concerned, we need to make analyses so that things can be resolved non-systemically. ZOFVI has a specific public and private education in its articles. It starts with Article 6 where it talks about performers. We are talking about Article 17 – the adoption of private school programmes, Article 34 – the entry into the register of private schools, Article 36 – the status of private teacher and educator in Article 37. In the second section, you have from 86th to 91st Private School, title. It spells out exactly what private schools must fulfil in order to be able to register that they have a public programme. And now we're saying that we need to solve the systemic issue. Yeah, if it's written in the ZOFVI. One, two, three, four, five, ten, eleven articles, it's already written about private schools in there. I don't know what else to do with the system. At the same time, it says nicely that only programs are funded for private schools. It is financed only if I tell you what the Ministry is financing, wages and contributions to private school. In public school some countries, some municipalities finance everything, i.e. material costs, space, all financed by the State or the budget; in private schools only a public programme is financed. And in Article 68, you have the conditions for funding. And it tells you that private schools don't get funds for investment, investment maintenance and equipment. They can't get it, they have to get it for themselves. And you think these schools are about to grow like mushrooms in the rain. Where, then, is there enough money left to make room, equipment and everything? And these three schools that are going to, they're not going to stop, because we've told you what's going on. Article 87 tells you about the protection of the public network that a private school cannot exist at all if a public school is at risk. You also know that in other countries, you probably have these statistics, you haven't talked much about them today to finance private schools. In Finland, for example, 57% of the countries, 43% of the municipalities or their region are financed. So they get 100 % in total for the programme, I'm talking about the programme again, and no country is funding material costs. This is just like us. Then I can also say, the Netherlands 100%, Denmark even has material costs included, Sweden is an exception, it is those schools that charge tuition, etc., that I will not list everything now. And as has been said today, once you refer to the Constitution, when it comes to you, the second time you don't, you change it, the second time you change the law, just like it suits you. Read the Constitution and all constitutional decisions. Discreditation of the Constitutional Court – this was today a major debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get Mrs. Ludmila Novak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! In my debate, I will focus on the part of the bill that talks about content for free society, condemning all totalitarianism and patriotism. I cannot help but feel that we are constantly proposing amendments and additions to the Education and Education Act, even though we have competent professional holidays to do so. No one wonders what we do to young people always with new content that will be of little use to them in life. We feed young people with stuffed objects and contents. For this reason, too, there are so many children who have such or other learning problems and need additional learning assistance that primary school is too demanding and too productive. In this way, the proposaler should always ask himself in the future about the need for a change in education and education. Let me remind you that the Education Committee on the introduction of civic and domestic education and ethics as a teaching subject in secondary schools in the Republic of Slovenia is at an urgent session 4. 2. 2015 adopted a decision proposing to the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia and the Professional and Professional Education Council to prepare an analysis of the potential need for strengthening domestic and civil education. Only on the basis of analyses will it be clear whether additions are needed in this area. Applicants also propose to complement curricula where, after new education for patriotism, it is intended to be included in each subject and at almost all levels of education – from kindergarten to higher education and adult education. Let me touch on the proposaler's comments that there are worrying phenomena in primary schools when students are presented with totalitarian symbols as something positive, and thus the phenomena of totalitarianism represent something acceptable, even positive. The conclusion that the development of awareness of nationality and national identity is important and that a more in-depth approach to this topic should be made is correct. However, this means that our young people must know the history of their people from the arrival or settlement of our space in the 6th century, Sam's country, Karantany, Slovenian princes in the lower Panonia, the influences of the brothers Cyril and Method, the celery Counts and princes, as well as the bite of the defense of our territory by Slovenian soldiers during the first world war. The important foundations of our statehood were laid during the Second World War, when our people among the first in occupied Europe rose up in an armed fight against fascism and Nazism. This battle took place in the mark of a five - edged star, which at that time meant brotherhood and unity among the nations on all five continents of the world. This historical fact must be respected, for if it were not for Dražgoš, Pohorje and many other events, we today would not have our own country and democracy. Therefore, we must not allow our history to be deliberately illuminated at an unrealistic angle so that our young generation may even be ashamed of it. It is also necessary to preserve historical facts on the dark side, such as postwar killings, because where the sun shines, there are shadows. To erase from history the period of existence and development of our people under the symbol of the red star would be a crime. Let me remind you that one day a Slovenian citizen will assign us a task to do an analysis of how much state and social property in Slovenia was created during the time of totalitarianism and how much of it we still have or how much property we have enriched during the existence of democracy. Education for free society, condemning all totalitarianism and integrating patriotism into education content have always been part of the curriculum and at least in public school. As has already been mentioned, perhaps the text of this proposal of the law is a reference in particular to those to whom the novel was originally intended, i.e. to private schools. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education requires a 100 per cent funding of private education from budgetary resources. I cannot support this as a public defender, so I will vote against the bill. I would like to refer to Mrs Jelki Godec's proponent, who mixes and talks once about domestic education and once about civic education. The law does contain patriotism; however, since the experts on the committee agreed, it is civic education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Vesna Ververga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u104	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, we have different ideas about patriotism. For me, it is patriotism that I love my country, my nation, my language, our culture and also our people; some with a little greater sympathy, some little smaller, human. But patriotism is also that I accept the views of those who think differently and sometimes listen to things that I don't like at all. But it's democracy, and it's patriotism. I don't know how any Member could have, how anyone could have objected to more of this content in education programmes. I think that this is not enough, and especially at the time of globalisation, when the world has become one of you, it is still important for young people to be aware of where our roots are, why it is important that we keep our language, identity, culture, why we love this part of the world, why it is our country. I don't think it's ever too much. What is worrying, however, is that we do not know enough, know, learn about recent Slovenian history, i.e. about Slovenia's independence. This is proved by many surveys and, according to my data, there was only one senior issue on the topic of recent Slovenian history. So, if they didn't, and if they didn't, they didn't learn about it either. You'll fix me if I don't, but that's how they reported it to me. Slovenians have a rich history within different countries, with which we have not yet fully accepted and settled. History is as it is, only the records are sometimes different. If history has been seen as being written by the winners, I don't think it's correct, it's not objective; history has to be written by objective historians, and then these truths must be written in textbooks, and we have to learn about it. Only in this way will we be able to accept our history and learn from it all that is good; and to avoid repeating mistakes or those that were less good or even bad. We have frequent debates in Parliament and our country on public and private or on public and private schools, which also implement public programmes. I think it's an excessive fear, an excessive fear of everything that's private. I remember many times when someone once corrected me when I said that the Slovenians were a nation of farmers; but he said, “No, we are a nation of craftsmen. The farmers were something, the townsfolk, the dignitaries, and the others were carriers, the lizards, I don't know what else, the tailors. Our ancestors have done various trades, professions and now they call it craftsmen, entrepreneurs, small, medium-sized enterprises, family businesses. Unfortunately, in the past, this entrepreneurial cord has been slightly stopped or killed with this negative attitude towards private ones, those who are entrepreneurial; because we all have to have the same. No; let those who are better have more. And these concerns also arise in private education. If we find that it is only 0.7% of private education, then we need not be afraid that private schools will destroy public education. This allows for a choice. Who attends Slovenian private schools? Most of the time, not those who are rich parents, so these schools often have social funds. Social Democrats, who always stress social rights, usually attend these schools by the children of larger families, not so rich parents, so they also have social funds. That the tuition is still paid from these funds. After all, the state is always on the profit side because the investments are paid by the school owner, only the programmes are financed by the state. And these programs are attended by our children, our citizens, the children of citizens' parents who pay taxes; therefore, there is no point in us defending public education. Thank God we have a good network of public schools, thank God they are accessible to all; but private schools are also attended by children of taxpayers, citizens. There they teach teachers who are also, as usual, our citizens. And I can only explain this fear of privacy by explaining that there is a fear of losing control, because the characteristic of all totalitarian regimes is that alongside the military they immediately submit to the media and education. And if in the former country it was the domain of social Democrats or the content was controlled, teachers were controlled, the leadership had to be controlled, or they had to be socially sound; now other values may be present in private schools. It's the only way I can explain this mood against privacy because it's so small; and the owners of these private schools, I don't know if they can make it rich by having to cover their own investments or material costs. It is, however, a choice, the possibility of another quality, the possibility of another education – and this is, after all, all the diversity or beauty of democracy. I don't know why we have such a problem condemning all totalitarian regimes. The fact is, in our previous country, there was a totalitarian communist regime that determined everything and decided everything, so it was. Thank God he was less strict or less totalitarian in the end than in Eastern European countries, but he was. This is what the Council of Europe resolutions, the European Parliament resolutions, are talking about. This is undeniable. That is why it is said that we are aware of this, that we do not make the same mistakes that our ancestors did. But the essence of our concern should not be public or private, the essence of our concern must be children, a quality education to train or raise such children and young people in order to become better, better people and be able to take care of their own bread. This must be our leadership, our goal in promoting quality education.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I will begin with the words that will be the red thread of my debate today. Humanism and tolerance are fundamental prerequisites for domestic education; home education must be based on good general civic education. There are probably a number of questions, as Mrs Bachič mentioned earlier, which is the difference between national and civil education. Domestic or patriotic education means developing awareness of national ownership and national identity and knowledge of the history of Slovenia, its tradition, culture. Civil education, however, includes the development of civil literacy, namely knowledge of the political system, human and civil rights and duties, the adoption of critical thinking and analytical skills and the promotion of participation and participation at the level of school, local communities and of course of the country. Studies carried out in this area, on the one hand, show a relatively high level of civil and domestic awareness; on the other hand, they highlight insufficient knowledge in the area of civil literacy, where knowledge is particularly based on some of the grounds of civil literacy at a rather low level. However, reducing civic education only to domestic education is not a prudent decision because they are inseparably linked. The proposed amendments to this Act do not mention any strengthening of these content of civic education. Since the area can be a very good springboard for ideological debates, the objectives of home and civic education must be approached with full objectivity and, in particular, criticism. According to young people, the qualities that best define an adult patriotic citizen, his knowledge and protection of his rights, his respectful attitude towards the Slovenian language, his willingness to respect the Constitution and the laws and his non-discriminatory attitude towards fellow citizens. In the secondary school system, home education in addition to the content of the various social subjects is provided for in the compulsory selection content of a civil culture which takes place only 15 hours but which is the closest to home education. In the debate on the Committee, I have already mentioned that I have been teaching at the high school a subject which covered these objectives and the content of patriotic education. We have devoted a great deal of attention to this, aware of the importance of this content, especially for students who are entering the political scene as active citizens. In addition to this approach, however, there is an inter-subject approach. However, this has been increasingly effective or more effective than the approach in question, in my view and in my experience. The school should therefore carefully plan and anticipate activities and projects that systematically contribute to the achievement of the objectives of civic education in different forms of organisation and within different parts of the school programme. School climate, the willingness of management and professional workers to include a particular topic in various school activities, the involvement of the school in the local environment and cooperation with parents play a very important role in civic education. At national level, I think that a strategic approach on the emergence of domestic content should be developed in other institutions and media addressing young people in particular. Let me finish. The content and objectives of individual teaching subjects or curricula and their upgrades cannot be merely a matter of political but merely an expert decision; even when it comes to domestic content and objectives. And perhaps a brief reply from Mrs Novak on the issue of graduation. National and domestic content is included within the Geography Graduate course as graduation issues across all exam areas, to a different extent; once more, twice less. Geographical involvement is what it is like for other subjects, but I couldn't say it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u108	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before I focus on the topic of the law, I would like to remind you that a few days ago, without any need for analysis - no analysis was necessary - to redefine the family, to change the law and to refer to the fact that the problem is in the constitution, although the existing law was not unconstitutional and the existing law did not violate human rights. Today, speaking of a specific law decided by the Constitutional Court, you need no further analysis and I do not know what broad debate on how to bring this into line with the Constitution. Let me take my turn. Otherwise, I'm not going to go to SD because I understand they have to defend the mother of their client, the current one, but that's the way it is. Since you come from a party that ran a totalitarian regime, it's just that you're probably hard to be objective about it. But let's try to be objective, at least as far as the constitution is concerned. Slovenia is a democratic republic. If Slovenia is a democratic republic, then I do not understand your problem with the next article, which would have been added to the law. In fact, Article 1 would add that the school must also educate and educate in order to be aware of all kinds of totalitarianism. It doesn't matter which, we're talking about all kinds of totalitarianism. Finally, one of the constitutional judges in a separate opinion, when we spoke about the so-called Tito Road case, said: "They are all the same in their own self-despite of human dignity." What problem do you have for children to learn about a system that violated human rights that violated the dignity of a person who did not allow people to debate what we are discussing today? I just don't get it. Is it simply an ideological view, for the content of this cannot be understood. We're talking patriotic education. The government points out in its position: "In this regard, it is necessary to determine to what extent the proposed content is already covered by primary and secondary education programmes." See, these contents can actually be included, but what is implementation? What is our attitude toward these things? June 25th, Statehood Day – Totalitarian symbols in schools! What's more, I think they had all the guns. Is that what we want? Moreover, the primary schools are surrounded by monuments of totalitarian leaders. What do we tell young people? Although we are a democratic republic after the constitution, with totalitarian regime we simply cannot draw the divide. That's the problem we're talking about. And by introducing patriotic education into all objects — what is behind this opposition? I don't understand this, but it's a positive message. After all, these young people will grow up and someday lead this country. In the first place, it is probably important that they have a positive attitude toward values. It must be said that it is the independence of Slovenia that has brought this nation together to the greatest extent. That's where he builds all this. Let me continue as far as funding is concerned. Look, education is a sensitive topic because of its role, and it is also subject to a number of manipulations. There was a lot of manipulation today, and I'll tell you why. What are we actually talking about today? Are we talking about the budget financing of private schools as well as public schools? That's not true! We are not talking about this, but we are only talking about equalising funding for the compulsory programme in primary schools. We're talking about obligations. Now you tell me why some parents have to pay for this obligation, which is in accordance with the law or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, while the other parent does not have to. Or if I turn around. Is it right, then, that some children or schools have less money available for this compulsory program than others? Why 85 percent? That's all we're talking about. Last but not least, here you have taken a whole bunch of austerity measures also at the expense of the disabled, but here you are talking about what the problem is basically private schools that take care of, listen, take care of the building, take care of the maintenance, take care of everything else themselves. There's no public money involved here. If one parent pays the tax and the other, why are you restricting him from choosing which school he's going to run with the law mandatory program? And lastly, you know, we don't have equality here either, one of these private schools gets 100% funding because it was established before these changes were implemented, the other not. What are they afraid of? All additional programmes in these schools are paid by parents, that is their decision and so is their decision, but we are talking about a mandatory programme based on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, I'm sorry, but you're two-faced. Last time you spoke about rights, we quoted you from the European Court of Human Rights decision – you didn't care, you're laughing today. Today we are quoting the Constitutional Court's decision, and you say we are talking about political affiliation. But where was the SD when we constantly stress the independent judicial system and reject all matters? Today, when it suits you, you are even talking about the political dependence of the Constitutional Court. It's sad. Of course, I also understand some things, like the predecessor from the SD, that they defend certain things. Last but not least, what this country will cost — three times as much as it has earned with fees from the country at the expense of education. I'd probably have a bit of a double opinion, too, but those are the facts. Last but not least, no one in this country can prevent what is the child's right and the right of their parents to talk about compulsory education. We're talking about a compulsory education programme, nothing else. Not now here to deceive that there is a rush of schools and so on we know exactly how many of these schools there are, and probably given the state of the country there will be no more. [[…]] But take this as a positive, these schools are all self-sustaining. That doesn't help either. To wrap up my performance a little bit: you need the analysis, but maybe they have it in the SD, maybe the Security Intelligence Service has done something like that, and then everything will be seen and known how and what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u109	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u110	Dear President, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In my opinion, civil and domestic education in schools is always present, as it is also part of the mission of schools, and therefore civic and domestic education cannot be subject to evaluations, and consequently cannot be something that could be the subject of, for example, a correctional examination. Why do we have objects of history, sociology, sociology, geography, philosophy, psychology, Slovenian, music, art, and more if they do not have enough civil and domestic content? However, it is not clear to me how the applicant imagined that he would include the values of civic and domestic education in the curricula of all subjects in the programme and how these values would be highlighted during the course of physics, mathematics, technical education, etc. I fear that the introduction of ideological content in areas where it does not belong reminds me of some surviving samples from the former system, for which I personally do not want to be repeated in our society. It is also important to ask what is wrong with all selected content, school activities and various activities of schools if there is not enough civic and domestic education in them. Personally, I believe that our schools need to be trusted much more than they are trusted, at least in certain political circles. National culture is a reflection that every young person must carry out on his own, and the school can help him to think through the starting points that are appropriately included in the subjects and mandatory selection content. That's the only way to go. Everything else is an imposed model that has no future. However, it would certainly be right if the applicants could honestly tell which subjects they do not trust with regard to civil and domestic content in schools and why. Proposalers want to add education for free society through the amendment of the law between education and education objectives by condemning all totalitarianism and also to add in Article 12 that the general part of the educational programme contains ways of integrating patriotism into curricula. I don't think any of the two proposals are so new that this should be highlighted. The school is already training for modern society, condemning totalitarianism, developing national and civil awareness. I hope and want us to succeed in this way in creating broad and sufficiently critical young people. How about this, for example, in history? The concept of history learning has been working for years in Slovenia alone for a politically unburdened history that puts the cultural, economic and social history of mankind at the forefront and images from the everyday life of man at different times and spaces. The current curriculum for history, e.g. in the High School Programme, it was adopted in 2008 at the initiative of the then Minister, Dr Milan Zver. I'm taking some passages from this curriculum. Definition of the subject: "History also plays an important role in the formation of Slovenian national consciousness and national identities, both European and individual identities are highlighted". Further, chapter Objectives relating to the development of relations, behaviours, attitudes and attitudes quote: "Dealers develop an interest in the historical past and present of the Slovenian people and their achievements and strengthen national consciousness and awareness of state ownership." Next: "In selected cases from history, they develop views of the world that respect human rights, equality and democracy and democratic and responsible citizenship," and "condemn crimes against humanity, genocide, the Holocaust and other forms of mass violations of human rights." Then we move on, chapter of the Development of Democracy, the Goals of a Wider Theme, quote: "Dealers compare different forms of democratic order in the history of humanity," further, "analyse and assess achievements in the development of democracy in different periods" and continue to "analyse the causes of the emergence of totalitarian systems and their consequences for democratic order in Europe and the world" further "research the consequences of the expansion of democracy after the fall of the Berlin Wall" and "analyse, assess the success of democratic processes today" and "envelop a positive attitude towards the importance of respect for human rights, equality and democracy". And we could list it. Among the contents of the curriculum is, among other things, quote: "Totalitarian systems, fascism, national socialism, Bolshevism." End of quote. And chapter Key concepts and ideas. I quote: "Democracy, three branches of areas, constitution, dictatorship, totalitarianism." He's also in elementary school in the ninth grade, for example. compulsory theme of the crisis of democracy and the rise of dictatorships and totalitarianism, where it is stated among the objectives that students, I quote, "in cases explain the differences between democratic, dictatorial and totalitarian forms of government and explain why democratic, dictatorial or totalitarian forms of government have been established in some countries." End of quote. The same is true in vocational schools. Let me get this. If we trust the school and the history teachers, all the writings in the curriculum should be sufficient, if not, the applicant must obtain expert conclusions, face them with historical expertise, and only then may he require a change in the law. Finally, if I stop to finance private education, let me say that I believe that Slovenia has a good public education that provides all citizens with quality education. As far as private education is concerned, it should be based on the principle that private education with Slovenia alone has been given the opportunity to add something else to public education. In the absence of this supplement, there is also no clear need for the State to co-finance this school. But if this is proved, then it makes sense, even if it is justified. Regardless of what I have said, it is true that we have the Constitutional Court's judgment, but there is no need for the chilling rush of its implementation. For it is not only a problem at the level of funding, but also under other status conditions, such as the adoption of private school programmes, the fulfilment of the conditions for their entry into the list of operators and so on. It is therefore reasonable that this issue, together with the level of funding, is regulated within the time limit imposed by the Constitutional Court, but more comprehensive than in the proposed draft law. So if I withdraw, we leave the Ministry of Education to deal with this issue comprehensively and to prepare changes to the law, which we will then decide on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! After the last discussion, we can find out in the style of movies in the West nothing new. Again, we will reject the opposition's proposal and leave ourselves to the charms of studying, analysing and proposing. This, obviously, is the tradition of a new policy, which I cannot personally support anymore. Why did we decide in the SDS Group to introduce a new law on organisation, financing of education and education? There's two targets in particular. The first is that we follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia last December, which, by its decision last December, ruled that the area of education financing in Slovenia is unconstitutional and imposed on the Government or the National Assembly, as a legislator, to correct it accordingly within one year. Unfortunately, until now, apart from studying and analysing, the government has dealt with itself in this mandate, so in the opposition, as its own jurisdiction, we have done the will and judgment of the Constitutional Court across the way and have therefore prepared a novelty of the ZOFVI law. Since there have also been many discussions mainly by coalition Members and Members to force some financial costs and budgetary burdens, we have placed ourselves in the pre-emptive implementation of the funding on the 1st September 2016 cut-off date so that we do not today – or we have listened to discussions and observations to influence the adopted budget rebalancing for 2015. Even we were so good that we went across the street and prepared a law that also gave the government enough time to prepare and introduce it. Therefore, on the other hand, I find it very strange that the representatives of the Modern Centre Party, or Mir Cerar Party, who believe in sacred respect for the law and the Constitution, today say that we are not in such a hurry to correct the constitution, i.e. the unconstitutional state. Today, there was also a great deal here to hear ideological content and debate. We are all for the public; we must be publicly supported; privately – these are the ones who are rich. Then let's take a look at the primary school ratio. We have three private primary schools in Slovenia and 744 public primary schools. So what would we fight against now, because private education in Slovenia is almost gone? We have the lowest share of private education among the Member States of the European Union, so I do not know why we should even talk about the need to fight the private. Maybe it's from old times, from the time my dad made the movie, when every private property and private initiative was a crime. Today, too, we often feel that we are still living in these times. My dad's socialist ball also said that man is our greatest fortune, so he has to be constantly monitored. That is why I am not surprised by the behaviour of the Minister of Defence, Mr Weber, who is abusing intelligence and security services. Once again, we have three private primary schools and 744 public schools. I agree that the debate on education is more than welcome, and we will probably all agree that the issue in education is present. We have already pointed out this to almost all the parliamentary groups at the hearing of the candidate for the minister, where, regardless of which direction someone is coming from, we have acknowledged that there are many challenges and problems in the whole area of education, and that the government will have to solve them; but we will not solve anything by analysing and examining them. If I touch other areas or areas of civil or domestic education. I myself attended a meeting of the Children's Parliament, which took place a few months ago in the National Assembly. The good debate, quality, content was also on the Committee on Education a few weeks ago, where we all somehow defended our own, but I do not think that the issue of civic education is an ideological issue at all. The analysis in this area will not solve anything either, because we already have a lot of analysis and research in this area. The state paid a lot for that, too. We have seen this on the committee, and I will also present today some of the results of these analyses and studies. I would say, however, that in Slovenia we often say that domestic and civic education – that it is something separate. However, if we look a little bit at world literature, professional literature, I would point out the 2006 study by Abwiitz and Harnish, which, by analysing and reviewing American curricula, presented the characteristics and content and other starting points of two directions that would prevail in the area of civic education around the world. I am talking here about the republican and liberal discourse, which are the most influential and most common concept of civic education around the world. For the republican aspect of civic education, the emphasis on the nationality, identity and relation of citizens to the national and local community is always significant. Learning plans, however, have repeatedly highlighted the need for domestic feelings. The Republican aspect of civic education also places great importance on the political participation of young people, and this is understood as cooperation in the management and integration of civil society and voluntary organisations. More important topics that dominate such curricula are the content of democracy, the tradition of institutions and documents and national history. Students should also learn some values, such as patriotism, respect, duty and responsibility and dialogue, in addressing these issues. It is quite good to hear, not because there is also a lack of dialogue in Slovenia. Another dominant aspect of civic education in learning plans is, as has already been said, a liberal discourse. This aspect, however, highlights the individual’s freedom and highlights the individual’s right to the free design of his life. The dominant values include equality, tolerance, plurality and freedom. A particular emphasis is placed on the way in which education is conducted through artificial methods, that is to say, integration in various simulations and participation in the plural environment. The liberal concept of civic education refers to the treatment of multicultural societies, history, national policies and the system, human rights and religious diversity. The liberal concept of civic education does not expose patriotism as fundamental values; they only make it a loyalty to equality and freedom. In doing so, it should be added that both authors in their research were based on the national discourse on civic education. It is fundamental for the latter to understand citizenship as a legal status defined by duties and rights. The process of civic education in practice often depends solely on teachers and professors, while also in the field of civic education and these content in Slovenia it is noted that the knowledge of the content of civic education is often insufficient. It is also noted that the involvement of actors involved in civic education in the Republic of Slovenia is poor, but also often due to too much fragmentation – now I will also quote Mr Pavčka. Dominoes make up two beautiful words: the verb of all verbs to love and conscious, the monologue of permanence, home. The relationship between them is binding on both sides, both for a home that must accept or reject love, and for a love that is noble or desolate. What this relationship is, it depends on the quality of this situation and our relations with the country and the country. Domesticism is one of the civic virtues, but we cannot buy it anywhere, order it or even ban it. We need to understand patriotism as a feeling that holds a special place in the set of values. Having a positive attitude toward home and home is an important action, helping and ensuring the survival of both the family and the nation themselves. Domesticism has its origin in national confidence, tolerance and tolerance, and can therefore be considered an important tool for reducing conflicts and conflicts and social cohesion for society. Belonging to the State and to the nation can also be referred to as national identification. I've got some professional literature on my own now. To conclude, however, I would like to say or present something in my opinion of the more important results of the survey the attitude of young people towards patriotism. So maybe the Mira Cerar government won't have to study and analyze everything in the magnetogram. In a study conducted in March and April 2012, i.e. in the study Youth-to-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do. It should be said, however, that primary and secondary schools from all Slovenian regions or regions were included in the study. The most important component of this study was the responsibility, I think that, Dr. Resident with colleagues, was also financed by the Ministry – at the time it was for education if I am not mistaken. The most important set of research also touched on some of the content in the area of the independence of Slovenia, which showed the following results: a quarter of the participating elementary school students and students in history did not address the area of Slovenian independence, and a fifth of the primary schoolchildren and a fifth of the students did not remember if they had ever talked about it. Participating elementary school students were most frequently dealt with in the subject of geography and in the case of the subject of geography by students of the last year. A large proportion of the participating students considered Slovenian independence in the subject of Slovenian, and some also in sociology, i.e. the characteristic of civic education, if I continue to speak only about civic education, is also that it is possible to have a very broad relationship with other subjects, i.e. cross-cutting, but unfortunately again many times depends solely on those who carry out curricula. However, the survey has also led to some alarming data, i.e. 67% of high school participants, saying that in school they do not talk about subjects related to civic education, the self-reliance of Slovenia, and in the same breath, 68% of students said they wanted to talk about this topic, because they believe that events related to self-reliance are important for young people in Slovenia. So I didn't say anything subjective, nothing of my own, but I just said the attitude of the students involved in the research. At the same time, I would like to conclude with some concrete information that everyone might be able to think about. Only 19.4% of students answered the question of when the first democratic multilateral elections took place in Slovenia. Seventy-seven percent of the students correctly answered the question of what Slovenia and Slovenians decided on the plebiscite in December 1990. Among the 4 options offered, 41% of the students were correctly selected, 83% of the participating students were correctly chosen by the date on which Slovenia declared independence. The students also had difficulties in identifying the date of full international recognition, where the most participating students responded with 'I don't know', and the second answer was that 27% of the participants chose the answer to the European Union with the recognition of the countries. Of course, if we looked at some recordings a few days ago and weeks ago, it seems to be about the same situation and knowledge of it in the National Assembly, which I think is a very bad example, because people are laughing at us, taunting us and telling us why we should learn something, even if they don't know anything. So I would like to say that we, here in this building, have to set the pattern, the patterns, and maybe sometimes even read a book, but not try to guess because it turns out to be funny. That video of interviews about dates was, in my opinion, the most viewed video, linked to the political developments this year, and we probably didn't do ourselves a favor when we were so poorly able to answer questions. Not all of them, but it was problematic. To conclude: I also support the discussions on education in this direction, so that we can start talking about other problems of education. We are in the 21st century, and it will somehow be necessary to realize that young people will also need to get closer to the basics of the economy, entrepreneurship, including civic education, because we see that the situation is not good because we need to know that jobs in the public administration or in the public sector will not be so much in the future. Therefore, it will be necessary to give young people the opportunity to learn, say, entrepreneurship, other similar subjects, so that they themselves will have the courage to think about opening up their own company, or their own company, but not that when we talk in the National Assembly, the first coalition move will be to raise taxes or introduce new bureaucratic obstacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u113	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u114	Madam President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first to address Mr. Chuš, who introduced us to the debate with perhaps a somewhat inappropriate title or title to the book In the West nothing new. You probably know it's a famous novel about young boys dying for their homeland in World War I. If you are somehow involved in some of the quotations from the drama text My Dad, a socialist tower, I strongly recommend that you give us all the advice to read some book, perhaps some Partliche's book. Otherwise, the proposal for any amendments to the so-called statutory law in the field of education and education, namely the law governing the conditions of management and financing of all levels of education and pre-school education, requires thoughtful and thorough treatment. Unfortunately, however, the changes we now have on the table are far from that. In my debate, I will focus only on paragraphs 2 and 3 of the novel. The purpose and purpose of the amended two articles of the law are defined by the proposer as a desire to increase awareness of national ownership in the educational process, as practice suggests that the changes so far have not been successful. The proposal says that "it is estimated that a more in-depth approach to the topics and processes should be integrated into the life of the school in all areas". This, of course, raises the question of who is assessing this, because the claim 'is assessed' does not, of course, hold any serious concern about the failure of the regulation so far in the law. Some event at a primary school, referred to as an incident in terms of resuscitation or even intoxication with symbols of the totalitarian system, is, at least for me, a very clear, ideologically inflatable reason that acts more like generating fear and smouldering to our educators and teachers and which of them is likely to be well remembered from some other times, since from the ban on the pioneer cap to compulsory hairstyle can only be a small step. Although the event did not upset the wider Slovenian public, it was only those who wanted and wanted to give the event political importance that explained it properly and completely. Such a policy approach is totally unacceptable to me and means a way to spread hatred and to continue sharing between true and unfair citizens and citizens; even worse, among true teachers or true learners or unfair teachers and unfair learners. Therefore, if we want to follow the stated objective in the proposed text that a more in-depth approach should be made to the subject, then such flat-rate assessments cannot be taken into account as a basis for amending an important law. The new ZOFVI seeks to develop awareness of nationality and national identity, to significantly improve with the amendments containing 13 words, which are so much the proposed amendment. This scope of content already makes it clear to us that the proposal did not have any serious purpose with the proposal. It is simply about reintroducing ideological unrest into our space; what is even more worrying – into the premises of educational and educational institutions. It is important that the applicant's substantive solutions only concern strengthening the values and principles of patriotism in the entire educational verticals, and by no means mention is made of the content, values and principles of civic education relating to active citizenship, human rights, the role of civil society, basic ethical principles. I believe that the purpose of civic and domestic education is to train students and students to become active citizens, who will also be able to critically judge the interpretation of historical facts. However, the attempt at political or ideological interference with the content of learning plans is unacceptable and worth serious and reasoned rejection. For, my values, my ethics, my world view, life philosophy are different from values, ethics, the world view of someone else, but we can and must live together in this country, even though perhaps everyone in our own country. I also believe that it is time for the helm to be ventilated, but the content cannot be a matter of political judgment, but only professional. The three-fold change in the title of the subject Homeland and civic education and ethics in the last three years or in the last few years proves that we are playing politics with educational content. I think it's about time we stopped doing this. I do not have any problems with private schools myself, but of course I have a problem with the proposal for a new law that is ready to be extremely simplified, so I support the Government's proposal, including the part that talks about the deadlines for changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear secretary at the Ministry of Education, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! As we talk today about the amendment of the Education Law, it seems to me that this is one of the foundations of the vocabulary; the foundation on which we have been building for a number of years is certainly the foundation on which we will also build for the future. Sometimes I feel like I should have one switch in school when I put this switch on one or two, but maybe the students would think differently. Today we are certainly talking about a process that is long-lasting. I understand from the school after 1990 that it was probably not possible to change this switch all of a sudden, it was a long process. Let me also say my thinking when I think about the triangle many times; the triangle where the child, the parents and the teacher, that after these 25 years, when we were thinking about each other, perhaps the other, fell completely. There are a lot of things in this triangle, I want to say the following, that the basic things in this triangle are no longer, that is the basic respect of the student to the teacher, that there is no respect for the son or daughter to the parents, and that triangle also undermines the respect of the parents to the teacher. I myself remember seven years ago, I was chairman of a construction committee at one primary school, an investment that cost good three million euros. Of course, this investment was paid from the taxes of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Together we took care of the entire construction of this basic school so necessary that the primary school was built with quality. We did this with hard work, but when the day came of great expectation that we opened this school, we were surprised by many, certainly also children in this school, probably the slightly older one, when the opening programme started, we had to return to the former Yugoslavia together with all the performances on the stage that was in the great hall. I don't have any problems not going down in history with any of this stuff. Of course, I was disturbed by the fact that we were in the former Yugoslavia and that people or children who were born in Slovenia were already attending school. I also want to say when we're talking in this new patriotic law. Surely these are the things we are talking about today, but when we hear from some of the parliamentary groups that it is completely over, that it is useless not to accept it, but it seems to me that such an important law is certainly not ideal enough to not be corrected. And when we talk about these important laws, all parliamentary groups should somehow come together to the benefit of Slovenian schools, to form the best laws for Slovenian education. Of course, I will support this novel myself, and I would also like this novel to be supported as widely as possible by you, Members and Members, and, of course, for the benefit of Slovenian education, especially young Slovenians and Slovenians in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u117	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, which we are discussing today, also envisages strengthening the content, values and principles of patriotism in the entire educational vertical. The instrument to achieve this would aim to renovate all learning plans. The mandatory identification of ways of integrating patriotism into learning plans will result in the completion of learning plans for all subjects; that is, both social and natural and technical. At this point, I would like to express my fear that it is possible to insist excessively on the total introduction of education for patriotism in all the areas concerned, as the review of the subjects and their curricula shows that we have 33 compulsory and slightly more than 90 optional subjects in primary education, both in socio-humanistic and in science and technology. I agree that school subjects not only develop the knowledge and skills of students, but that there is a need to strengthen both civil and domestic awareness within them. Notwithstanding this inclusion of educational content in the field of home education and education for democracy in the school curriculum, it does not always provide a uniform response, as the proponents think, how to design and, last but not least, implement them in practice. I wonder what such a determined requirement for the inclusion of the principles of patriotism in all subjects actually means for science and technology, such as chemistry, biology, physics, science and technology, and what it means for selected subjects such as astronomy, electrotechnics, experiments in chemistry. The results of the 2008 Empirical Study on Civil and Domestic Education in the Slovenian School of Social Sciences among more than 2 000 Slovenian students and students showed that both groups of young people, i.e. high school students and primary school students, support the inclusion of domestic education in education only in a broader framework of social subjects without the desire to extend to other subjects. Notwithstanding the need to integrate the content of national and civil education, the objectives of social or humanistic and natural and technical subjects should be mutually separated. To illustrate, I will list some of the goals that primary school students are expected to achieve in the subject of electrical engineering: to learn basic concepts of electrical engineering and its role and importance in energy, to read and draw electrical connections, to analyse individual examples of electricity use and to propose more rational solutions. Even more obvious is the unpredictability of the proposaler's rigidity in this matter when we look at the targets outlined in the object of astronomy, where students explore their position in the world in relation to different relationships: me and earth, earth and sun, the sun and the rest of the universe, and learn conclusions that are inherent in all sciences. How should the astronomy teacher be satisfied with objectives that would be all along the line and not take into account the nature of the substance introduced by the applicant? The sun is the heart of the world and we don't have to whine across fences into other galaxies. In the spirit of condemning totalitarianism during astronomy education, will the term stars need to be avoided and renamed space plasma, plasma shining? And there's some kind of paradox to be carried out. What am I trying to say? A more in-depth approach to the topic of domestic education is needed and certainly welcome, but it is also necessary to consider how, where and how we want to complement learning plans with elements of domestic education. Perhaps we will cultivate greater patriotism if we trust our teachers to grow in areas where there is real potential for this. Instead, it seems wrong to me that we should adopt a uniformly unselective involvement with the themes of patriotism in knowledge, where formulas, postulates, gravity, and genetics reign — without natural wonders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u119	Mr Urso Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! I must express my joy at the fact that the opposition cares about the school system or the educational system, but at the same time I must express my clear conviction and vision that the ruling coalition also cares about this system. I believe that we will do something in this area together, if we are only constructive. Where do I see these key differences – I will not speak on behalf of the entire coalition, but mine to your proposals for a specific law. At the outset, I need to find out or express my conviction that our education system is good, if not excellent. I have heard from your interpretations that it is very wrong, that it is so bad, that it has to be brought back to life or changed dramatically. I am also deeply saddened by the fact that I have heard that Slovenians are not patriots, that we are not proud of our history. This, of course, is not true, I firmly believe that it does not hold; how proud we are of our history, how proud we are of our country that we have. We advocate a clear distinction between private and public. We firmly believe that it will not destroy the public in private, that is clear, because here we are also the parties or Members of these parties who have signed a proposal to amend the Constitution, which will guarantee that even potential privacy cannot destroy the public. Personally, I want more elements of patriotism in learning plans, and not only that, I want more content, more other subjects in learning systems, in curricula. I want to learn more foreign languages, I want more social subjects – sociology, philosophy, not least economics, which has already been said. I want more problems or subjects in the fields of culture, art, sport, and, last but not least, history, where it will be made clear, once again, that national liberation is the brightest moment, the brightest period in the history of the Slovenian nation, where it will be clearly stated and clearly condemned quizzling or national betrayal, which the entire advanced world has told him is its place in the history dump. That's what I want. But I do not want such an object, such ideological content, which would separate our nation. As I say, my opinion is that our system is good, if not excellent, and it is not valid ad hoc, to change on the nose and maybe make it worse than anyone would have wanted. Let the experts think about it, perhaps someone on the other side will laugh at me to explore some possibilities. I also believe that many of the analyses have already been prepared, done, but let me warn you, here is the Ministry of Education, Science and Education, here is the Professional and Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia, here is the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, here is the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education, and here is the professional and interested public, and I sincerely apologize if I have forgotten any state, public institution in this listing. We have all probably read the opinion of the Government, which does not agree with the amendment of the proposed law, but also commits itself to submitting to the legislative procedure a bill that will adequately regulate the proposed topic, which, again, my opinion, will lead to a comprehensive private education regime, as well as, or in particular, its funding, as well as or in particular, the definition of the status of private educational institutions. According to my information, the Minister can confirm or reject, and the amendment of the so-called ZOFVI is already in preparation, and I am sure that we will see it under the assumption that today we will not support this novel, we will see it quite quickly on our parliamentary benches. I'm not Mr. Pickal's lawyer, though I'm writing myself similarly; he's not the lawyer of the Picala, as my colleague warned me earlier: "Oh, no, Mr. Pikl?" A colleague of Godchev, who is unfortunately not here in the hall, promised me that in my debate she would, but I was taught that after a very comprehensive discussion on a similar topic on the working body – it was a proposal for the introduction of civic and domestic education and ethics as a teaching subject in secondary schools – members decided that before the possible addition of educational programmes, an accurate analysis of the existing elements of civic and home education and an analysis of the possible need to strengthen these content should be done. On conclusion. Of course, it is not a constitution, but it is a very binding, coalition agreement, coalition agreement - if you want - and we have written it, among other things, "in order to clearly distinguish between public and private education and education activities, where public education is a vehicle of public good, and it is privately understood as a complement of the public, within which the right of parents and children to choose is guaranteed, to ensure the possibility of achieving high educational achievements for all of us". So much for me. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u121	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u122	Madam Vice-President, first of all, I must say that what I am hearing today I really think we are living in 1939. Not even in 1940, not in 1941, but not to talk about any years later. Then I will try to show and prove with certain arguments why I think so. Because today a lot of words were said about the NOB, how this is part of our history, etc. I would rather now return to the beginning, that is to say to the law that we have proposed – I will of course support this law, but I will quote part of paragraph 2; the objectives, principles and main solutions of the bill. Here is the following in the second paragraph – one part of this sentence I will quote – "... and especially in primary schools there are strong concerns when students are presented with totalitarian symbols as something positive, and thus the appearance of totalitarianism is seen as something acceptable, even as positive. Such practice must not only be interrupted, but should be implemented in schools on the basis of European and civil values. It is therefore necessary to include fundamental values, such as patriotism and awareness of fundamental human rights, not only as occasional events in school, but also to be included in the curriculum as such." My colleague just before me discussed this particular area and said, among other things, that we are proud of our history. He continued that the brightest part of our history was a national liberation war. What about the independence of Slovenia? And as the brightest part of our history – the national liberation war, where we are very far apart – I will now try to illustrate with the following documents, namely the quote from the speech at the first AVNO meeting in Bihac in November 1942, the archive of the Military History Institute in Belgrade, the folder of the Staff of the JVUO Supreme Command, under the symbol KA2-30/12. Citrate by Mr Moša Pijade, who was one of the key people of the national liberation army. So that the gentleman you have discussed before me will now, please, listen for once to what we have heard, to young people in this society who have been silenced. Please listen. I quote Mr. Mosha Piyadh. "Therefore it is necessary to create so many homeless people that they will become the majority of the countries. That's why we have to burn, we're going to shoot, and we're going to retreat. The Germans won't find us, but they'll burn the villages out of revenge..." – remember the village of Dražgoše – "... Then the villagers, who are without a roof, will come alone and we will have a nation with us and thus become masters of the situation. Those who have no house, no land, no animals, will join us quickly when we promise them a great robbery. It'll be harder with those who have property at least. We will associate them with lectures, theatres, plays and other propaganda. This will gradually rite all the places. A villager who has a house, fields and livestock, a worker who receives a salary and has bread, is worthless to us. We have to make them homeless, proletarians, only unfortunates become communists. That is why we must create disaster and bring the crowds to despair. We are the mortal enemy of every prosperity of order and peace. "Mr. Mosha Piyade in 1942. Ladies and gentlemen. I continue with another document signed by Slovenian Boris Kidrič: Strictly confidential, just for the organization of the party, 16. 9. 1941, Declaration of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Slovenia. At the invitation of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, the Central Committee took the following positions. Under number one. All leaders in the Liberation Front, belonging to a city's direction, must be eliminated. Under number two. All dignitaries, capitalists, industrialists and fists must be eliminated. Under number 3. All leaders and civil servants who are not employed in the Liberation Front or in the NOV and who will not be liquidated there must be eliminated. Under number 13. All city newspapers must not be published, the radio apparatus must be removed immediately. Under number 14. All public offices and all vital institutions, as well as transport centres, must immediately be seized by the National Liberation Army. Number 16. All liquidations shall be carried out by the Special Sections of the Party. Party organisations in the field and in the National Liberation Sections must ensure the strictest confidentiality of these instructions. Only the most important old members, party officials are allowed to know about these instructions. You're the only one who's been assigned to identify the culprits. Long live the socialist revolution! Long live Stalin, the leader of all the working people! For the Central Committees of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, Boris Kidrič. And this is Boris Kidrič, who is still standing today, and you are everything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u123	Excuse me. We're talking. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u124	I'm gonna finish. I'm just asking for one more word. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u126	Ma'am, please don't interrupt me! This monument of Boris Kidric stands next to the Presidential Palace in the park of the Council of Europe. My dear ladies and gentlemen, if anyone listens today, including young people, children, schoolchildren, children who already understand this in kindergarten, elementary school, university students, they can understand from this how we have been misled by all generations so far by those who are still doing what they are doing and what they are doing. And they have everything in this society in their hands just to maintain their privileges that they have acquired in this bloody way, with bloody hands. Even today, there are people in this country who should be there immediately, long ago in The Hague, where the president of the SFRY was once, or [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u127	Can I warn you one more time, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u128	Serbia and so on [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u129	That we stick to the content of the bill? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u130	Well, Your Honor, I'll finish it slowly. I think I have illustrated enough and presented what has completely declassified Mr Pikl's debate, which has said that we are proud of our history, the brightest part of our history is the national liberation struggle. Now I may continue to say this very clearly, and it is amazing that when we talk about partisanism, which I am extremely supportive of, the Partisans were very honest people, but few of the partisans survived the NOB, because these revolutionaries from this story, which I am now talking about, were shot in the back, in the back. [[…]] Sir, do you know that, Mr. Prickl? Come and ask my mother and my old father, who, after the accident, is no longer among the living, how they destroyed what this Titus army was doing after the conquest. People were throwing in those old trucks, blood running down the road, guns killing them. Ask these people, please go to these people, and let the Slovenian public know the real truth about history for once! And do not interfere here with the partisans, the honest people who really fought with the soul and heart for this, for our then country and the present country. And once again, if you ask what happened to the Pohorski Battalion. The Mountain Battalion were not Communists, nor were any of them. Why were they killed? The question of history is to which many of us have no answer. The Germans killed them, but today you won't prove to me who betrayed them. She betrayed them, in my personal opinion, because they weren't party servants. This is a sad truth and a sad part of the history of Slovenia, the history of Yugoslavia, and it is right that in this House someone has eggs – forgive the expression – I have misspoke – to say this to the entire Slovenian public. I've got them! Therefore, never say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are against partisanism, we are against that, we are against the national liberation war and so on. We didn't! We acknowledge this and the whole part of history, but in the part where he was responsible, he was honest and he really resisted the enemy, not that you, even those responsible, turned the story to the head and anyone who was not in favour of the revolution for the revolutionaries, was against them and everyone had to be eliminated. In these documents, which I have read today, which exist, which you unfortunately cannot hide, you cannot hide, because you have burned 70%, but 10% or 20% – no, Mr Prikl, I am not telling you – but there are still. [[…]] These documents show what our history is and what our history is. Therefore, I claim and am proud of this, of the history of Slovenia's independence. Then and now – and I conclude – why did I say many times that I can't tolerate a red star in this House and I can't tolerate it in the Republic of Slovenia and I can't tolerate it anywhere! Why? When they were shooting airplanes in Shentyl and when I saw the bodies lying next to each other, you weren't there, and I was there! The one who shot — the one who wore the red star on his head! Those were the ones who were shooting at this poor nation. That one! Those were the ones who were slaughtering, the ones that were breaking bridges, and I don't know what. Come on, take a look at the movies that happened in Shentyl. The ones with the planes were shooting at their own people and they are today, and here today you hope someone in this House will wear a red star! [[…]] Come to Shentyl and they'll show you. But the one you're hoping to wear a red star is pretty bad with your heads. I have to tell you this. I'm sorry to have to say this here, but I mean it, I mean it! All I'm saying is that I'm going to support this marriage, I didn't intend to go into this debate, but after everything I've been listening to here today, I'm going to throw up, I'm going to throw up. That is why our school system needs to be changed so that children have the right information that those who raise them will also raise them in this way and teach them what is real and also Yugoslav history, not what is happening now. Therefore, it is logical that our system itself does not work as it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u131	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the words after this gruesome debate. I must say, although I am sorry that the Minister is not here among us, of which I expect much, as I have already said in the debate on Friday. I will only touch on the clear distinction between private and public education. The right of parents to raise children is to provide education for our children in accordance with moral and philosophical beliefs. Therefore, some parents decide to select a school for their children other than public schools and comply with the minimum standards laid down by the State. There's no denying it. Public schools are accessible to all and are established by both the State and the local community with a view to providing quality and accessible public education, and this has been achieved through a careful school policy at the heart of which to allow each individual, regardless of his or her initial position, to gain all the potential for further life in an ideologically unburdened environment. To this end, a public network of schools has been developed, which, of course, is complemented by private institutions. So all parents are allowed to enroll their children in free primary education programmes in the public network. At the same time, it is not possible to overlook the provision of the Constitution in Article 57, which provides that education is free. Freedom of education at constitutional level guarantees individuals and legal persons that they also establish private schools. Thus, the State creates the necessary legal frameworks for the establishment and functioning of private schools and recognises the public education acquired in private schools. However, it follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2001 that the contribution to finance depends on how much this State can do, but must be supported in such a way as to enable the actual existence of a private school. Any thought that parents who enter their children in private schools would be in an unequal situation does not exist in this place. I note, therefore, that the current system of financing education and education is fully adequate, and that 85% of the public school programme is financed by private schools. Once again, there will be no mistake: I do not oppose the establishment of private schools. On the contrary, they should be set up to ensure competition, and programmes should be implemented, but not entirely by public means. Every parent who enrolls his or her child in a private school wants a different system of education provided by public schools for his or her child, so it is also right that they spend some of their financial resources for this part. There have been many discussions at the time of entering the private field in public, but unfortunately we cannot go beyond the fact that Slovenia is a legal and social country as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the ability to ensure accessibility and quality of public services, with public primary education having a special and central place. Therefore, it cannot allow public education to be poorer in the face of an ever-increasing trend towards a competitive environment. Let me touch this content briefly on Point 2, Education for free society by condemning all totalitarianism. Content in education must be a matter of professional discussion, not a domain of political inspiration. To point 3, I would simply point out, recall that the Education Committee 4. 2. On the initiative of NSI, he discussed the introduction of civic and domestic education and ethics in secondary schools of the Republic of Slovenia. Without a vote against it, let me point out that an analysis of the already established elements of civic and domestic education in secondary schools is being prepared, including analyses of the potential need to strengthen all national and civil education. Finally and comprehensive information will inform the Committee within one year. Applicants also want to complement the curricula that are expected to be included in each subject and at all levels of education from kindergarten to higher education for adults after new education for patriotism. However, it is here to point out that the current regulation of the article, which is intended to supplement this, contains organisational rather than substantive guidelines. Unfortunately, it is not for the National Assembly to decide on the contents of the curriculum, but only by the professional councils. To conclude, I am aware that the importance of education is very important for democracy. From this point of view, I support today's debate, but I do not want the debate to take place exactly the opposite of what is supposed to be a concept in the curriculum and in accordance with international standards. In the center of the subject, an individual is placed as part of a society that should develop in a way that he is able to understand and respond to things around him as a responsible way of dealing with himself and others as a whole. Let it be a little more for a joke and a little bit more for real, as our Member mentioned: with regard to intelligence analysis, it only points to the fact that the Member looked in the mirror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u133	The word is Ivan Škodnik. Get ready. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today we're discussing [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u135	Wait a minute! Mr. Badass, just a second. Let me read it to the end. Mrs Bah Žibert wanted a replica first, then Mr Škodnik, and then Mr Horvat is prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'm replicating my colleague, the MPs from SD. Look, you don't understand what we're saying. We are talking about the fact that the same compulsory school programme is not financially equivalent. We're not talking about what you said about parents collecting some extra program at school. Okay, that's really their choice to pay for it. We're talking about what they teach all the schools. How can you now believe that one child can receive less funding for this compulsory education than someone else? That's the problem. And to quote you from a separate opinion on the constitutional decision: Individual's free choice – it is said that his personal free choice – is in which school – whether in private or in public – he will be educated – we are talking again about the so-called compulsory education – regardless of what the legislator thinks in this sense. The legislator cannot determine and somehow make a choice for him. Now you choose for them. That's not right! We're talking about a mandatory program. Let me finish with your joke. Unfortunately, there is no tail or head. Be funny next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Today we are discussing strengthening the content of domestic education in the Slovenian educational system. Let me just remind you once again that the development of national consciousness is already part of the Slovenian school system. In primary schools, pupils in the seventh and eighth classes have a separate subject of civic and domestic education and ethics in a total of 70 hours. The subject is an integral part of primary schooling and humanities education. Students and students also learn about domestic and civic education in other subjects, within inter-subject content and also at school level as a whole. I agree that it is necessary to strengthen civil and domestic content in curricula, but in a way that educates and educates critical, responsible and active citizens. National and domestic education must be a primary lesson for young people to train for an effective and successful democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, until recently our colleague, dear colleague and colleague! I am convinced that this proposal is a bill, i.e. the amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, a good basis for further parliamentary debate. It's not ideal, but that's why we have more treatment. It would be good for us to turn on the green light on this proposal and to optimize the text in the second reading. Speaking of patriotism, I should be allowed to continue the debate of our President of New Slovenia, Mrs Ludmile Novak. A while ago, I went to the State Audit Center Archives and found a graduation map for the autumn exam date from the subject of history, maybe I should find another map, has a date Wednesday, August 28, 2013, that is, the autumn exam deadline. Why am I talking about this map, August 2013? Because it is a historical map with issues of graduation: for the first time in independent history also with questions from the period of Slovenian independence. Within twenty-five questions you can find the last three questions about Slovenia's independence. The twenty-third question is: Due to the inability to reach any agreement in Yugoslavia, they set themselves the goal of the independence of Slovenia in Demos. How did the people of Slovenia decide to be independent in 1990? If you answer correctly, so with plebiscite, you get one point. The 24th question is: The Slovenian Assembly declared independence of Slovenia on 25 June 1991, followed by war. Question: How many days did the war last for an independent Slovenia, and who was the attacker? If you answer correctly, you get one point. And last but not least, the twenty-fifth question, which has six events and six years, which you need to put right before each event. If you write Slovenia's independence before this year 1991, you answered correctly. If you write before the event Slovenia's entry into the EU year 2004, you answered correctly. And if you write the 1990 anniversary in Slovenia before the first multi-party event, you answered correctly. But you have three other questions, such as: the conflict with the information desk, the creation of the Kingdom of SHS and the establishment of the first Slovenian university. Well, this very establishment of the first Slovenian University in 1919 could be much talked about. If you answer all these six questions correctly, you get three points. This is therefore the first graduation map from the subject of history in 2013, where two and a half questions, if I am mathematically correct, relate to the process of Slovenian independence. Today we are also talking a lot about our school system, but I think we are not really separating what public education is, what private education is, and we are not talking enough about state education. Yesterday I had this privilege to talk to one of the ministers of the Turkish government about their privatisation and their private and state schools, but of course it is a public school. We, however, have to separate what state schools are and what private schools are, and all of this is actually a public school system. Since the state is the organised political community that has sovereign authority in a spatially limited territory, the state sets up or establishes schools called public schools or set up a private or private group of individuals, which many people, or part of a policy, are very afraid of, namely, these private schools. Who's afraid of private schools? In fact, they are the same people who once feared craftsmen with too many workers and farmers with too much land. I'm sure you remember the older ones, but the younger ones must have read something else. "In socialism, we have allowed for a private initiative in agriculture and in craftsmen as a great deal of liberalism. Since privacy was a foreigner in the system, we severely restricted it. Farmers should not have more than 10 hectares of their own land, craftsmen" – I know this because the father was a craftsman – "not more than 5 employees. Anything more could jeopardize the integrity and existence of a system of socialist society, socialist self-government and united labour." The current attempt on the left of the political hemisphere to limit private primary education to a drop-down of a metered kindergarten somewhere far from the horizon, in fact, reminds me of the resurgence of this old heritage in modern times. Colleagues and colleagues, how much do private primary schools cost us, which we have stopped to date or today? Have you ever counted that? As you know, it's very easy for parents to enter children in all 3 private schools on the E-Government portal today. According to statistics, all 921 pupils or half a percent of all were enrolled in school flight last year. Half a percent, that's five miles. According to the latest available data for 2012, 141 teachers and professional, advisory and management workers were employed or 7 per cent, 7 per cent, 7 per cent of all employees in primary school. Last year, the country allocated 0.44% of all funding to private schools for the implementation of primary education programmes. I do not recall any political party ever proposing a change of constitution or even launching such a cry and a cry for something that is, in its material sense, such a small part of the whole system. So what's this all about? Apparently, money isn't the main problem this time. The implementation of the decision that compulsory programmes in private schools should be financed in the same way as in public schools would today require an additional EUR 290 000 or half of all public funding for primary school programmes. For a better show. If this money were to be distributed to teachers and professional and management workers in public schools, each of them would be paid only for a good euro with a higher monthly salary, of course, a gross salary. This is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, or we are not talking about it, because it is not about money, obviously about ideology or the ideological struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u141	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much. From today's discussions some of the coalition has shown that they do not really know what we are talking about, I have already said that we are not talking about the introduction of a new subject in secondary school, but about the introduction of patriotism in lifelong learning, if I may say so, and given that the opinion of the Government has somehow failed, because the Government's opinion states that the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth on the proposal for the introduction of civic and home education and ethics as a teaching subject in the secondary schools of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a 9th emergency session and that it will then study the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, the Centre of the Republic for Vocational Education and so on, and will then give a clear analysis and relevant systemic solutions, I would ask the representatives of the Government, of course the Minister and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, to give an opinion on the proposal of the proposer, namely, on the proposal of education which we have funded. Therefore, not to the opinion of the introduction of the subject in secondary school, but to the concrete proposal we have put forward. At the same time, I would like to hear, in the light of the debate and also the further debate, what are the systemic solutions you are preparing in the area of private education and which articles you intend to amend in the ZOFVI, given that you say that it is not enough to amend only Article 86. So, which ZOFVI articles are going to change? Do you know the analysis that was prepared in 2010 that former Minister Pikalo was talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u143	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I really don't know why in Slovenia there is such a fear of privacy, but today we have heard that we have three private primary schools in Slovenia and we have 744 public schools. Clearly, the fact that the private sphere is intruding into the public sphere and what else do I know, but if we are already trying to undermine any initiative in order to get some competitiveness in this area and not finally get competition. Because, like parents, they have the right to register their children wherever they want to, young people have the right to be educated wherever they want, whether publicly or privately. However, I can say that we are seeing more and more in all areas, and in health care in general, that the problem is often public and the private is obviously functioning without problems. What does it mean in public, and we have seen well in the end on the various fees shared by the professors at public universities, at the universities of the state, which are thus forged and magnified by the stars. This just proves, even though we are talking about some collectiveism, it is also in public universities, especially among professors, that there is obviously a very private one, but only when it comes to our pockets, not of course when it comes to pockets of everyone else. It was said that you would also examine this matter in the Government, this decision of the Constitutional Court, but there were still no dates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared this law precisely to remedy the unconstitutional consequences that have arisen since the Constitutional Court found that 80, 85% is just financed by public funds to make this illegal. You said we didn't do it based on some analysis, in-depth thinking and what I know. See, the Slovenian Democratic Party has been in existence for more than 25 years. We've already done a lot of analysis. We didn't get a call two months before the election, and one of us said, "Listen, do you have any time, do you want to run for an MP maybe or for an MP?" We just open the closet and we have things inside that we know how they've been done in the past and we don't need some special analysis because we know exactly what's going on and how things are going. But I am pleased that at least the analyses will be studied and analyzed, and we will probably then work, work, work, work when 10 months will come — virtually every week, one committee will order analysis, research. I don't know, obviously we'll be back by the end of the year, those months, and at the beginning of 2016, really from morning to evening in the National Assembly, there's no problem, only that something will move in the country for the better, and that it will be better for our citizens and citizens. I have heard that we also want to go in this direction so that right-wing ideologies can somehow penetrate public education. If right-wing ideology is that we are introducing economic subjects into school, that we are preparing students and students to learn about the labour market, that someone will be able to understand how things work and get some self-initiative to create a business, that they will already be interested in what I would do in order to, say, not get a job in the public sector. If right-wing means that we tell young people that they will have to know themselves in life and that they will not only count on social support and assistance from the state, then let's say right-wing ideology. But just because we don't have it in Slovenia, we are where we are. Since there is still a socialist mind in Slovenia, learn in school, then go on, go to college, then work in the public sector, there you will work well from 7 to 3 or 8 to 4, come home, the time will be for the family, and so you will be kind and obedient to the system. But God does not let anyone set up a business of their own, God forbid, that he may even hire someone, and God forbid, that he may make a profit because you are an ugly, corrupt capitalist because you exploit people because you exploit employees. This is the logic that is still present in our country today. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is not right-wing logic. That's the logic of socialists, that's the logic of the left, which is exactly the opposite of right-wing logic or liberal. In addition to eliminating these unconstitutional consequences, we have proposed to complete two indents in two articles, i.e. in the second article, to add a new third indent, namely Education for Free Society, to condemn all totalitarianism. I really don't know what you see here as a problem. I do not imagine how it would seem that we are not now in the National Assembly, but that we are in the Bundestag, which is said in the German Parliament, and there, for example, the Espedes – the CDU probably would not have gone so far – that we are not in favour of condemning all totalitarianism or condemning them only on condition that we condemn only communism, because Nazism and fascism were fine. You know, something like this could not have happened in the Bundestag, we have been hearing this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for years. Above all, constantly from one and the same party, constantly on the same side, against me, which would otherwise be against totalitarianism, but if we explicitly wrote down education for free society, condemning all totalitarianism, with the exception of communism or socialism. As you wish. I had a history at the prom, and I can tell you that we all finished our fourth year classes there in May, because then we had, from May to June, when graduation starts, only those who chose history as an object for graduation. This was in 2009, and in this regular part from the first to the fourth year we arrived right there at the information desk, maybe then the beginning of the cold war. One word not about Slovenia's independence! I am not saying that domestic education is not also the education of NOB, it is also the education of the end of what the Slovenians did during World War I, which we now mark as a anniversary – round. What they did during the Turkish incursions and back and back if we go. But there was nowhere to be conquered, nowhere, for example, in 1988, by JBTZ's affairs, after how the matter progressed. It was in the textbook, I think it was, we had a textbook by Dr. Boža Repeta, since the independence around there about 5.6 pages, but it doesn't even come to that, because history ends before, to start preparing for the graduation. Then you read on the portals, and who's this guy Jože Pučnik who's up there at the airport? This comes because they don’t know the basic concepts — and I’m not surprised! I've never heard of Jozet Pučnik in high school, either in history or in sociology. Not once! If the government hadn't renamed Janez Janša then, I think I was in my third year, not once before, I've heard of Jozet Pučnik. So much for how patriotic it is. And it's not just patriotism that we only know our anniversary. You can probably see that we want this patriotism, that is to say, this is in the second paragraph of Article 12, which we propose to add a new indent of "the way of integrating patriotism into curricula". It's not just that we're going to talk about how our country came into being. It's not just patriotism in history, it's mostly facts. You know, also, which artists, say, are dealt with in art education, which music works are highlighted in music education, whose composers are treated, whom we listen to, and so on, of course. I don't know if we're going to ask about some famous composers right now, I doubt they're mentioned, but most of them forget. patriotism goes this way, not only do we know some dates that we saw some of them known, but I knew them then. This is said, on June 25th and December 26th, I, too, should be able to be answered by journalists – to a variety of questions I probably would not be able to answer because we cannot all know; but on June 25th and December 26th, you must know this at midnight. [[…]] It's a good thing they didn't ask what holiday it was on September 15th. I doubt anyone could answer, or November 23rd, because it's not a day off, but it's a state holiday. In short, I will support this matter even though it will not go through. I hope that the government will come as soon as possible with its proposal to eliminate this unconstitutional situation and that it will go with the proposal – not to put private education somewhere on the side track, but to come up with a proposal that will strengthen competition, which will strengthen the offer, because private schools are looking for those market niches, offering programmes that may then be a little more useful in finding employment for the labour market. Last week, I was at the European People's Party's Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels, where we discussed the creation of new jobs for young people. The three main points were the emphasis: the first was the reform of education, where we learned and studied, in particular, the German and Austrian models of the dual school system, which will now be followed by some other countries in Portugal, Spain and so on. Then the second point was this guarantee for young people and traineeships. I've been talking about traineeships for a long time, and other countries have similar guarantees for young people to us, but they have paid traineeships. The third point was how, despite the fact that we are all trying to boost economic growth, when more work is needed, how can only people be allowed to have a private sphere, so that they can quit their jobs, if I say so, and when I say, what kind of proposal do we have on the table on public education, what do we have to write in the constitution three times, I have to repeat, and they have not yet believed me. Obviously, this collective spirit is still too present with us, because we kill every initiative, every individuality, and because we think too much together. We must give each individual an opportunity, without all being equal, we have the right to be different, but for the country everyone must be equally important and have the right to the same starting points. No one should be treated, one more privileged, the other less, just because of the family they come from. Once we realize that we have to invest everything in being a more individual society, then we will also be more successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u145	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u146	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am a little disappointed at the very content of the debate or the way in which certain individuals and parliamentary groups think, when you somehow take the view that something private is limited or that it would not be financed to such an extent and so much. First, I would realize that private education is already very limited. I don't know what you're afraid of. For we have only three private schools in this loving country; three private schools and fear and trembling in all this. Let me just point this out for a second. Private school means greater competitiveness; for this reason it means better services; because better services will – who will gain? They're gonna get our kids. And this is not exactly the goal of our children in schools getting better content to get even more. As a result, insistence and attitude in certain patterns that do not belong to this country, which does not belong to 2015, is indeed problematic and therefore I am disappointed with this way of feeling and thinking that, in fact, greater competitiveness is also problematic in the field of education. Further on domestic citizenship education. Not that I don't understand; I don't understand how you don't understand that the more native education, the more domestic consciousness doesn't mean, respected gentlemen, more nationalism, but no; knowing your own homeland, your own identity is one of the key things for the formation of a nation, for the development of a nation. I will also point out: there are too few key events in our history in school textbooks. This is the independence of Slovenia, this was a key event, and that is not enough. Not enough of this our youngest learn and I don't know what would be wrong to learn more about it, to learn more about the events of 1990, 1991, 1992 and so on. I will support the bill, the proposal is a good one, it is a good basis for us to continue this debate, and I especially expect the National Assembly to make a leap.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u147	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I am again disappointed by the government's irresponsibility. Now there is usually no minister, today the minister, practically after four hours there was no intervention, no communication, no further explanation of views. Madam President, I propose that, when there is no minister, you give the table where the Minister sits and we write: the Minister or the Minister is gone again today. In the event that he comes and doesn't speak, we'll give him a plate and we'll write that the minister or the minister won't speak today. So in this situation, let's get things straight. The other thing that stabs in the eyes is the views of the government and, as a result, the uncritical views of the coalition Members. Practically every opinion given by the Government on our proposal, whether it is the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Law on the abolition of free traineeship, the Law on the financing of education and education, is completely identical: that the proposal is not comprehensive, that it is not such, different, fifth, seventh. While the government in these same areas after 6, 5, 7, has not proposed anything for months at all. There is no proposal in these areas that I have listed, but in some cases, we have already tabled the law in between, and in order not to say by vote, we have crossed it. This seems to me to be a controversial conduct, it seems to me to be an improper act, because between what is now, let's say, nothing, and what we are proposing is a fundamental change in content, and take any law that we have proposed. It's a major change. That the parody or the joke is even bigger, when the government's full proposal comes, this government, we have a mountain of amendments on the table. Look at the laws you've adopted in this session, government proposals, look at any other laws. How can this be explained that, in such comprehensive proposals, such matters are faced with such major corrections, substantive, not to say procedural and others. I think that's a problem. Because you are already asking us to make a practical proposal without error. Here I must warn my fellow Members from the coalition parties that you are extremely uncritical. You have not yet rejected another proposal from the Government that would be incomplete, as incomplete, but we have been typing throughout the evening to put the matter in the right place. As far as the content of this law and your comments are concerned. You say some things are controversial. When I look at the correction proposed in Article 1, we have written that we are raised to be a free society by condemning all totalitarianism. What's the issue here? Or training for free society or condemning all totalitarianism? By the way, in the National Assembly, you took note of the European Parliament's resolutions on the condemnation of totalitarianism and the removal of the consequences of totalitarianism. You know resolution 1096, it was also discussed here. If you have been a party to the National Assembly and Parliament has accepted this and has come to know it, then this doctrine, which is enshrined in this law, is in no way disputed. In no way departs from the practice of the European Parliament and from what all Slovenian MEPs have accepted regardless of colour in the European Parliament. What, then, is the problem of condemning totalitarianism if the members of the Social Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour, if the former, now the Member of Desus, Wygel voted in favour of this in the European Parliament, if Members of the New Slovenia and the SDS in the European Parliament voted in favour of such a dictatorship and such a solution? So what's the problem? Let's play a double game? Do one rule apply to the face of Europe, within another country? Here I would expect an answer from you who have condemned the discussions of my colleagues and also the proposal we have put forward, and I would also expect a clear position from the Government at this point. And there's not one or the other, just some processing, some accounting just on the spot and on the mind. I don't think that's right. If you criticize our proposal for a law, then say, it is not a good Article 1; it is not a good Article 2; it is not a good Article 3; or it is not a good transitional provision. Tell the content of what is not appropriate. Here, one of the Members spoke of the fact that, according to the household, we will in some way revise history by condemning totalitarianism and introducing patriotism into curricula. Colleagues, a review of history has been made. What we have with us is not true. You can read daily online or anywhere, in public publications of the denial of what you consider to be a credible history. The town of Stromol has finally come out. What historical fact is this? Big pit, Kočevsky horn, Teharje, tank ditches. These are historical facts that have happened and that's not what we're talking about. I'm setting an example out of my congregation. Soon we'll be celebrating a day of rebellion against the invader. It'll be a holiday in three weeks. Here. But one real day of rebellion against the invader took place on 13 May 1941 on Mali Gora. This was the first armed conflict in the territory of the former Yugoslavia with the occupying party. Three tigers and an Italian army. Now look back to the history books, when, according to the former totalitarian regime, the first gun was given in Slovenia. Do you remember yet? I think it was July 22nd. Why was this date, which was the first in Yugoslavia to be so ignored, that we came to third or fourth place in Yugoslavia and some date that has virtually no connection? Can you explain to someone who knows so much about history? Why was that necessary? Why is the distance from this fact and the truth made? I think we should give these three tigers who camped over the Ribnica and was one of them killed, one trapped, one escaped, give the right place. The then - Janša government put this in some way with a national celebration. Not to say if anyone knows what was the greatest battle with the invader in the territory of Slovenia. But there were no civilian casualties, and there was no accounting with the local population. The Battle of Jelen's Cradle! Even in the valley of Ribnica, in the municipality of Ribnica. Is something celebrated within the partisan movement and other things? Is this battle celebrated in such a solemn way as some other events — for example, Dražgoš or Javorovice or something else? It's some kind of marginal story. And the tiger's story on Little Mountain and this one in Big Mountain, two buses comes along and somehow marks these two events. Why is this celebrated in this way, or is it marked in this way and in some other way? I think that in some ways these things need to be put in the right place and, in some corrective way, also spoken about and also dealt with in some other way. I think that it is only in some dignified way that these tragic things of the Second War, and especially after the Second World War, also in Slovenian textbooks as a reminder that something would never happen again, as we can remember in the National Assembly, say, these Bosnian affairs of Srebrenica, then we will do something, some breakthrough, some leap in the Slovenian nation and we will take a step in the direction of reconciliation and some things that are silenced in this country. I think those of you who have attacked this proposal of ours and are looking for some satisfaction either in Syria or in Venezuela, the Venezuelan revolution and misery. I don't think that's how we're gonna get far. Above all, what my colleague Pojbič said will happen when he read that paragraph from the book Sotirović, if you will follow this path. But I think that things need to be examined and said as they happened, and that shouldn't be any problem. Many have such trauma in the National Assembly, even though it is now on the other side. A lot of people. With regard to the implementation of the Constitutional Decision, however, it is said that when the value of public programmes implemented in a private or public school needs to be levelled, I think this is a completely indisputable matter. We should have done this by now, but some ministers have had a particular problem making this valuable difference in the financing of the programme and other things such as equipment, facilities and so on. There was a big difference here already. I think that this needs to be rectified, this needs to be corrected, and I also think that that proposal for amending the Constitution needs to be eliminated when the Constitutional Court's decision is tried in such a way that it is an inappropriate response and an inappropriate proposal to deal with it. In short, I suggest to you, dear coalition and others, that you are not indifferent when you do not propose anything, but you are wringing your noses over what the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing. Prepare a proposal, prepare a competitive proposal to be prepared by the Government and we will compete with solutions. Just what you are doing is that everything that is problematic is what we are proposing in the SDS, and it is not practical to have any debate, no member of the National Assembly, I think it is a very shallow expression and shallow conduct to do so. The government, the coalition, here you have fifty or more votes, if you perform in a rainbow, you're in 60, and you prepare something that will drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u149	The word has Miha Kordish, to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u150	President, thank you very much for your word. To begin my debate, I would like to reiterate the conclusion of the position of the United Left Group, which they have presented today. Not only are we rejecting the proposed legislative changes, we see them as a threat to the further decommissioning of the public school system. Last but not least, this is clear from the debates of the Member and the Members of the right. What's the problem? Decommissioning seeks to achieve legislative change in two ways. Firstly – SDS wants to increase the flow of public money into private pockets. According to their own calculations, an additional EUR 390 000 would be poured from the funds of all citizens and citizens into private schools. And secondly – SDS wants to show history in accordance with its own ideological beliefs and thus spread its creation of history with a very clear political agenda. The idea of public education is that knowledge is a good that belongs to everyone without discrimination. Therefore, it is not subject to market logic or individual political ideas, but it is easy, free and accessible to all. We socialists are unconditionally committed to the social progress project, so we stand firm on the side of education as means of emancipation, both the emancipation of the individual and the emancipation of the whole society. And it's only public education that fits this emancipation and can achieve it. Public education alone is indeed in the public service, in the service of progress and, last but not least, in the service of all citizens and citizens. But it seems we're in the United Left in this position at least somehow lonely. The new Minister of Education has, last but not least, expressed herself in favour of the profitable and ideological appetites of private people with the money of all citizens and citizens. With the confirmation of Klavdija Markež as school minister, all coalition parties have also killed their nails against the public benefit and for private profit ideological and ecclesiastical interests. What exactly is wrong with private education? Simply that it is not public and thus does not serve public benefit but pursues certain specific ideological or profitable goals. What motive, though, would a person want to establish his educational institution? And it is these private objectives in the United Left that we are opposed to because they are contrary to the principle of common good. One such motive, personal, is today's right-wing thunder of totalitarianism and the cry for freedom. We know what is really behind these exclamations: the mud left, the malignment of the people, which has risen up against foreign invaders and against domestic masters. He is deeply disturbed by the semi-existence of social and cultural liberation. People's resistance to occupations, fundamental social transformation into social equality and the cultural self-esteem of the SDS is defined as totalitarianism. This concept is a completely non-scientific all-gliharism, which is totally inconsistent with the applicant's arguments given in the light of the reasons given, if I quote from the proposed justification that came with these legislative changes. I quote, "Scholars are nothing less than simplified scientific material." End of quote. Otherwise, we know from past actions that SDS is not exactly committed to scientific standards and truthfulness, as shown by, for example, the manipulation of collages from archival materials and so on. Right hand, because this should not surprise us too much, because the right hand is not interested in understanding history, it simply uses it as a tool for collecting political points and manipulating. The field of education and education has a lot of problems throughout the vertical, from kindergarten level to doctoral study, certainly too much to go taxing at this point. And instead of dealing with how to establish a quality, accessible public education for all, we are dealing with Esdes totalitarianism again. Instead of talking about how to set up an educational system that will not be selective on the basis of wealth, it will encourage the most promising students, instead of talking about human development and stopping the brain drain or the best-educated staff, we are dealing with a lack of patriotism in schools. It's as if patriotism is responsible for people going around the world with a stomach for bread, but it's not the mania of some of their life prospects. Colleagues, colleagues, we have important questions to ask in the future, and let us preserve history and historical facts such as, from them, let us draw inspiration in the effort for the future by the scale of people, not capital. I would like to add a few more thoughts to this debate, some others. In particular, there's one thing I've been doing in the National Assembly since day one, since I sat in a chair, that's very annoying. It is that some mills in the National Assembly are turning and turning and turning, but this is a debate that is not actually a debate. One speaks through the other, the arguments are systematically ignored, but the representatives of some political options are repeating and repeating their mantra, even if this mantra has been rejected ten times in a previous debate. This does not fly on any particular political option, it flies on the general debate and on all political options. In short, the debate is under way, but this debate is not really a debate, there is no rational confrontation, but there is an argument, followed by an argument followed by a replica of this argument or a challenge to this argument, and so on through some argument line. Look, there is simply no such debate in the National Assembly. I'm sorry. If we look at a concrete example of today's debate and today's case of changes in education and education on the SDS initiative, which, with these changes, wanted to further channel public money into private school accounts and introduce its ideology into public schools. The debaters remain blind, deaf to the arguments already made, because their mantras do not tolerate them. If we look at a very specific case, we have heard today in the debate that private education is not a threat to public education, but it does have tuition. How did this claim go past ours, right at the beginning of a committed position? I'll just quote. "What is an additional 15% funding for private schools? Fully funded private schools will only be able to achieve superstandard education through a small contribution from parents, school fees, leading to the long-term domination of private education over public education. Such education is not universally available, but it is selective on the basis of property, which strengthens class divisions in society, as we get one school system for the poor and one for the rich. In addition, let us not forget how, due to austerity measures and belt tightening, public education is completely undernourished, yet new and new cuts are being announced over and over again. Private schools are parasitic to the same resources under which they are severely saved. It is a clear neoliberal attack on public education that leads to increasing commercialisation, increasingly poor quality and increasing inequality in society. Education and knowledge must be accessible to all, since intellectual heritage is the property of all mankind, at the same time, from a developmental point of view, a quality and accessible public education is an alternative to peripheral underdevelopment, where, through privatization, belt tightening and structural reforms, all the last governments are taking us without exception." End of quote. If we move on. We have also heard a lot about native education, and once again I can only summarize the United Left position presented. I quote. "Let me give a few words to another trend, which is generated only by the right, which, in addition to the political parties on this side of the National Assembly and their satellite organizations – I also mean the high clergy of the Roman Catholic Church. This trend is not limited to education, but because of its specific role in education, it is very clear that the school is the one that has the strongest impact on individual opinion and behaviour. It is the intrusion of historical revisionism, antisocialism and the defamation of the struggle for national and social liberation. This takes place under the symbol of totalitarianism, with which the right hand tries to equalize Nazism, fascism and communism, with only demonization of the latter. Compromising with the word totalitarianism is not a modern thing. It is not new, it became popular during the Cold War decades ago in the propaganda war against all systems that did not swear on capitalism and Euro-Atlantic integration. The same purpose today: to blacken and stop all the left-wing alternatives that we want to end the predominance of the great neoliberal coalition of left-centre and right-wing parties. Raising for a free society by condemning all totalitarianism, this is how the SDS wants to be written in law. But what is this free society? A society of market freedom that frees working people from the social security offered by public health and education? A free society that forces 99% of people to fully subjugate capital, a free society that discriminates against women and national and LGBT minorities? It is a free society that is freed from the future for young people, free from working rights, a dignified survival of old age and a decent life for all. This is a free society promoted by the SDS, this is a free society of capitalism." End of quote. But this story doesn't stop here, at least another third point I can mention here, and this point is the point of patriotism. For from the right we have received evidence that we are negative against patriotism. I don't know from which of our words you might have figured it out, our point may be quite the opposite; that those who talk most about patriotism, national identity, etc. are actually selling national sovereignty with privatisation, slave relations with Brussels and international capital. And I repeat: again the quote, "To conclude, there is only a mention of patriotism and national affiliation. With these words, virtually all politicians from right to right and left- centred parties are knocking on their chests. All those who agree to the neoliberal consensus, all those who privatize our common assets, which you are fully serviceable to Brussels technocrats – is this patriotism? Is patriotism a subjugation to international capital, a sale of national sovereignty for change, a refusal of German Chancellor Angela Merkel or the American ambassadors, which is what they do best with SDS candidates? Those who today consider themselves to be the greatest and most zealous patriots have sacrificed the rights and standards of the majority of people and people of Slovenia with the most acute austerity and privatisation measures." End of quote. Today's debate has reached some very low points, nicely put. Instead of exchanging arguments, we have heard a lot of malignment of history, defamation of national liberation fights, and on the issue of public and private education, we have stopped at some alleged fears of private schools. We have not heard anything about the impact of education on social justice, on the spiritual and intellectual development of an individual, on some social progress resulting from this. We have not heard or heard very little about the quality and accessibility of education, almost nothing about the development potentials of education and education. All these questions are based on the organisation of the school system. And it is clear that these issues can only be resolved for the benefit of working people through quality, accessible public education for all. However, in this debate, some classic controversy between partisans and patriots has no place. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u151	Mr Tomaž Lisec, first of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you, President, for your word. I'd have five things if you could make them happen. Firstly, I suggest that the United Left Group redistribute the bill we have drafted in the SDS so that they know exactly what we are talking about. Secondly, I propose that you also send them or deliver to the bench a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the basic reason for drafting the law that we have prepared in the SDS Group, so that they will again know what the debate is about today. The third item, please also provide them with the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly, that when they talk about how SDS always talks about the same topics, there is an ideology that we have today considered the Bank of Slovenia law as the first item on the proposal of the SDS. So we care about the economy and the finances and everything else. So, some of the material will already be for the United Left Group to have a holiday run, because they will probably not attend religious rituals, what to do. Fourthly, I ask that you send them a recommended invitation for the next Human Rights Commission meeting to the session of the Commission so that they can tell them what they think about patriotism, about values, but they are having a hard time discussing it because it is not there. The entire coalition could also receive a brief reminder if not a recommended invitation, Mr President. And the last thing. In view of the fact that in the last debate it was said that the level of debate was low, I suggest that this answer be most easily resolved by sending the predecessor a tapegram of his debate and seeing what a low level of debate is in the National Assembly. Five polite requests for the Joint Left Group. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u153	Mr Tomaž Lisec, now you have the floor to discuss. I've already given my word. Let's leave this debate at this point, and then there will be a time-sharing, and you will be able to apply for the debate. Okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you, President, once again for your word. Madam President, I hope to answer another question in five minutes. Today there was a lot of talk about partisans and patriots, instead of talking about the Constitutional Court's decision and more emphasis on patriotism in the Slovenian educational system. Decision of the Constitutional Court, i.e. Constitutional Court. We all plead for law, ethics, morality and so on, the decision is simple. I quote, "The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is incompatible with the Constitution in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes." It's a simple decision. I hope that at least one of the discussers, in particular those of the coalition species, has read: the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is inconsistent with Article 57 of the Constitution. Today, we have heard of public and private matters, but no one knows that we are talking about what the Constitutional Court has now said — a hundred percent funding for the publicly applicable programmes of private and public primary schools. And today we've heard about universities and vocational education and I don't know what. A purely simple decision, we have drawn up a proposal for a law, a European comparison, financial implications, and then the government says that the proposed solutions are not based on previous analyses, which are the basis for assessing the situation and preparing major solutions to the changes and supplementing the law. What kind of tests do you need? Decision of the Constitutional Court, Honourable Secretary of State and new Minister! We don't need any analysis, but we do have a decision from the Constitutional Court. Yesterday we listened to a contribution from some media outlets, but these Members do not respect the Constitutional Court's decision. While in the ministries they translate from ministers to ministers, and to new ministers, in the meantime, someone else resigns, which we learn from Tuesday to Thursday, we have prepared a proposal for a law that is fully in line with the principles of the Constitutional Court's decision. Not some GRECO organ, or I don't know what – the Constitutional Court! But today there are 101 reasons beyond the Constitutional Court's decision, but why not support this law. Someone said: "We respect the constitutional decision. But what will you do, honourable Members of the SMC, Desus, Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, SD, United Left? You'll press the "against" button. Those five other discussers, who said how nice it is to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, will deny your words by your actions. It's been seen so many times in this government for six months. In short, here too – as with the other topics that we have dealt with, with the greater recognition of patriotism in the Slovenian educational system – you will be preparing analyses for analysis, for authors' fees to get some effect, some assembly, you will discuss with stakeholders, and eventually – what? I am confident that the ZOFI-J proposal, which the Ministry says is already preparing and will probably someday see the light of the world, will contain a proposal from the SD, which will then be without concern in the coalition that we do not need private education. I propose that colleagues from SD be consistent, not only do they propose the abolition of private education. Personal health care delete, private initiative delete, private property delete, all of this is in the constitution. Be consistent, not preparing a partial solution, as this government is constantly talking about how it will prepare systemic solutions. Systemic regulation, adoption of the Constitution, so that private property in no area is no longer needed in our Slovenia and we will be happy in the company of North Korea, Belarus, Venezuela, which some so like to mention in their praises. In short, we have experienced 50 minutes of silence from the Government today about how they will not support the bill, but they say that they will, and we do not know, ever, nor how, nor the financial consequences will be calculated. In short, nothing of the sort, but it is important that they are against the SDS proposal, even though we are in the course of the first hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u155	The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much. First of all, I must point out once again that we have not discussed private education here yes or no, because private education under our legislation is placed in the system. What we have discussed, however, is whether this proposal submitted by the SDS Group is sufficient. I will now state the reasons why the Ministry considers that more specific articles should be opened on the placement of private education. And Mrs Godec, you were right, several articles are concerned. Indeed, it is a question of what is why private education has its place in the education and education system. Since 1996, private education has been a source of wealth for school space. Thus, with private schools, a private school programme introduces something that public schools do not have to do with education in accordance with their own beliefs or some specific educational approaches. At this point, the Ministry has never had a different drafting proposal and it does not have it now. What we have been facing lately is not now valid, but we are facing proposals that undermine this accommodation, the current accommodation or the current mode of placement. We are also faced with some proposals, including other Western European countries, such as Austria, which banned one of the private schools last month. So far, we have resolved these proposals at the principal level, but that the procedure has run as long as it has been going on, but the fact is that the Ministry needs to take a serious approach to a more detailed analysis of how to place private education in public space, in public education. It is said that there would be things that, as I say, are already faced by some other countries when they go beyond the objectives or are contrary to the aims of education and education on a given system. That's all this is about, and that's all we've talked about. As for the greater recognition of national and civil education. The Ministry never questioned that either. More than that, I have repeatedly talked about the fact that, especially in recent years, the ministry has always spent a number of resources each year, and again on projects that have touched on the level of the implemented curriculum, it is said that the implementation curriculum has been as effective as possible in the implementation of national and civil education. For we believe that this is already included in laws, regulations. For example, if I look at ZOFVI, we have explicitly written in Article 2: developing awareness of nationality, national identity and so on. The same applies to ZOŠ, for the Basic School Act. The one you've been talking about is how much of this is being done in schools. This is a second question and, as I said, the ministry devotes a number of resources each year to the activities and to the implementation of this in schools. Not only did we pay, as you correctly found, a number of analyses, research, some of which you also quoted, but we also supported various CDs, textbooks, manuals for teachers, etc. The topic of civic and domestic education is clearly one where it appears that, in the absence of a strong awareness and commitment in society, the school itself cannot replace it. I am not avoiding the responsibility of schools, I say again, but it is obvious that if we have a problem with national consciousness and identity in society, we have a problem with flag hanging, etc. that obviously the school itself is difficult to do something about this area. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something else I'd like to remind you of. When you talk about teachers. Teachers are often confused when subjects related to recent history need to teach. Why is that? Because it often happens to them that whenever they are dealing with these issues, one parents and another parents come up with the idea that they have acted ideologically, with different views, how the topic has been moved unprofessionally, and so when we talk to teachers, why they do not implement or why they do not exercise more firmly the content that is in the curriculum, they often accuse us of how, every time they face these issues again, they also face a series of pressures as to how the issue is being implemented. [[…]] Let me get this straight. In short, let us not avoid the need to resolve the issue of a constitutional decision in the law on organisation and financing. All I am saying is that we want to solve it in its entirety also with some of the experiences that the country has experienced recently, such as Austria. However, as far as civic and domestic education is concerned, I can only ensure that the ministry does not continue to avoid paying particular attention to this subject, but I would like to see the whole society support this issue in a way that will only be strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u157	Ms Jelka Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. In fact, today’s debate has shown that the word patriotism is somehow hated in the National Assembly as well as probably in our society. Whenever we talk about patriotism, whenever there is a subject, it is referred to as the ideological theme that has happened today. You're all talking about World War II. I want to know why no one talks, say, about the Master, why no one talks about Malgai, why no one talks about the man who wrote this: "The country in which someone was born is called the country of birth or the country. Be conscious citizens, appreciate your homeland, your roots and your Slovenian language, be proud of our history. Small ones can sometimes be bigger than big. This also applies to the Slovenian people." Probably about him and don't talk about it because it was Bishop Anton Martin Slomšek. And why don't you talk about the Ipavs who wrote about the homeland and the other conscious Slovenians? Why don't you talk about Jože Pučnik and so on? I think that we have to be aware of the Slovenians or our people that we are lucky to be living in a country of our own, which some nations have not yet succeeded in, that we have our own identity and that we must respect and cherish. I can ask myself, or I wonder where all the patriotism has gone, about all the talk you have today about how patriotic and conscious you are. It's hidden in some analysis, some statistics, some study, and it's actually blurry. Most of the time, patriotism opens up, the one in the society you were talking about, the secretary-general, especially at sports events – the last one was in Planica. It was indescribable and really warm to you when you see so many flags and in fact so much relaxation of patriotism. I would like to know how the Yugoslav flag would be accepted at the moment if it clapped among all these Slovenians. Still, I'll say, the Russian song Kalinka was accompanied by whistles. That's when this patriotism is released, and that's what's positive, let's say, which also contributes to what you said yourself. Where's that patriot every day? Look at the neighbouring Croatia! Every kid has a chessboard on his shirt, and we are ashamed to hang a Slovenian flag, every kid has a hat with a chessboard, everyone knows that we are talking about Croatia or that he represents someone and that he is proud of it. I think that in normal countries there would be no problem of such a topic as we have proposed, or changes to the law to introduce the law itself, or this would not be necessary at all. We're raised in all subjects. Those who wondered how this would take place in natural sciences or wherever. I have said this before: a teacher is raised always and everywhere, even in science classes, because I told the case of a teacher who is not a sociologist, and they asked her why the Slovenian flag is hanging out today, and she said that we will not talk about it. Yes, other teachers are also raising and even in the first grade, you know, children have a theme about the country of Slovenia because someone was asking how such little children could understand it. They understand very well, more than adults. If we want to know what our country will be like in 10, 15 years' time, then let's see how our children are raised, how we work in schools, how we don't get doctors of science, history that don't know holidays that don't know certain things from our history. And yes, I believe teachers, I believe teachers are good teachers, I never said we have bad teachers in schools, far from that. Madam Secretary-General said that we have these themes, but that the question is how far they are being implemented. That's the problem. What is the problem with someone showing a film about Sutjeska in history, but on the other hand, a film about Petričko. Is there a problem?Oh, my God! I don't think so. That's what some teachers do. They're showing both sides. One of them just stops at one thing, because we know which one. And to say that the brightest point in Slovenian history is NOB, I think that some other light would have been even brighter before the NOB and even after the NOB, I will not discuss this, because you will say that I am reopening ideological themes. I think it makes no sense to me, I think such phrases were that the NOB of course has to be told, it has to be taught, but there are other things to be learned. [[…]] We had STM, what was it like – self-management based on Marxism – which was an independent subject that was evaluated and where they had negative assessments, there was no problem. Now, if we were to have civic education, we would be judged negatively, but that would be a problem! Of course you would be. From my point of view, there would be a problem. In such subjects, all children should be positive, teachers should learn things well, or they should check matters meaningfully. As far as private and public schools are concerned, we have three private schools and that number and that number, in 740 public schools, and that private schools cannot really put these schools at risk. I'd rather wonder who's putting public education at risk. These three private, some of the coalition said no. Public education, I'll say, endangers itself. Professors who earn huge fees in addition to their regular work, then these anomalies, which have already been exposed to the fact that a teacher who has, say, sufficient competence or expertise to learn English at a higher level cannot learn at a lower level, must make an additional education costing several thousand euros. Above all, as I say, public education is basically destroying itself. I hate to talk about private, public education, it's really better to talk than good and bad schools. And I like that you said, Madam Secretary-General, that private education will enrich our school space and not destroy it and that all this promotion of private education will destroy public education. According to all statistics, once again: private education is less than 1%. Nevertheless, I appeal to the coalition to read the law or the amendment of the law again, because I stress once again, after all the discussions, I think that some people do not know what we are talking about. Some of you have still reiterated that the introduction of the subject Once again is not about introducing the subject of patriotism or civic education, but as stated in article 12 to add a new indent, which reads as follows: "how to integrate the principles of patriotism into curricula". [[…]] So let's get this into the curriculum. I think private education, I can't agree with you here who said that private education should be placed in our school space. After all those 12 members of ZOFVI, private education is placed in our school space. However, I am interested in how you will bring these ideas, the ideas that you have said that you do not oppose private education, that you do not oppose patriotism and civic education in the education process, through the National Assembly, as we have seen today that two-thirds of Members oppose it. I literally think everyone has said that they oppose it, but you intend to do so, I hope that you will come as soon as possible, because you must also comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, you must resolve these matters. Once again, on private education, the Constitutional Court is talking about a single article. That article is unconstitutional and that article must be resolved and that is why our proposal is. So once again, I ask myself, I don't know, I hope that you will succeed in six months or I don't know how much time you need, as you said, to do all the analyses, checks to convince this part of the national council that the introduction of patriotism and civic education into lifelong education is important. Only, if you can get there is the independence of Slovenia, then everyone will agree. Once again, look at the coalition, the proposals of the law. We are coming against the Government, you have heard the Secretary-General that in fact all these matters are supported and, in other readings, things can be complemented, of course, in cooperation with the Government, as well as with some proposal from your side. So I ask you once again to read and support the amendment of the Law on Financing Education and Education to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u159	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Everybody wants to. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mrs Jelka Godec, and the representative of the Government, State Secretary Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, please apply with a raise of hands. Now, I'm going to pull the trigger. I'm not going to pull the trigger. I'm going to ask you to sign in. Triggering and experiencing is the difference. So two, every five minutes. First of all, Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Domestic and civic education are inseparably linked. Both are connected both in value and in the ideological field, and therefore these content needs an approach based on the basis of objectivity and even criticism. We all agree that these contents are important, but today we have not agreed on this; we have not been united in our opinion as to whether these content will be sufficient or what the content is supposed to be. I also look at domestic and civic education from another point of view, as a process that takes place in the child's life, not in textbooks alone, not only in programs and curricula, but also in the family, in a broader and narrower social environment, which includes especially peer-to-peer associations, and the example we set for adults. Here I see no problem in the number of hours and greater integration of domestic and civil education into the program, but in us, adults. Children also learn by example, saying that they learn by means of nonverbal and verbal messages that we knowingly or unconsciously communicate to children. Here I see the great responsibility of us Members, by showing patience in our work in Parliament, to show that we know how to shape and confront different positions, on a level. During the debate, I took part in a parliamentary session of the students, and the president of the session reminded the students that their dialogue should be at the cultural level and not at the same time as his witnesses in Parliament. I think that young people have made it very clear how they see us, or have made it very clear what they expect of us. Young people want to gain professional knowledge, young people want a job, and they want a decent future. Young people are not directed to the past, but to the present and to the dream, to the future. It is right that they get real information about our history, but not by magnifying or equalizing actors in our history. But let them recognize the injustice and inadmissibility of every war. If we want good citizens, we are the first to set the right example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u161	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens! I will answer because I would like to tell my fellow Members that there are mostly very contradictory statements today, even to the absurd situation in the debates concerning the subject which I think is very important. Important not only for the continuation of some serious identity, the survival of some nation's identity, which has an extraordinary history, some nation that has stood on the line between Vienna and Trieste, but that in such a high place as here, a whole range of colleagues who have once been and who will be the bearer of teaching processes, interprets such lies and a whole range of irregularities and historical inaccuracies. Let me put it first. According to past history, World War II, the first in occupied Europe, we therefore resisted the invader. Dear colleagues and colleagues, World War II began on September 1, 1939. Poland was then attacked by a national socialist Germany and a communist Russia. The communist Russia also included Slovenian pre-war and then postwar communists, who were the mercenaries of Kominterna, such as Kardelj, Kidrič and everyone else. During this time, they did not resist a single statement, waiting always and everywhere only for a sign from Russia and Stalin. Let me point out that on September 3, 1939, even Australia and New Zealand, the Nazi Germans announced the war of the then Great Britain, France. As you know, Hitler later subjugated Denmark, Norway, in 1940 he attacked France and on April 6, 1941 he attacked Yugoslavia and Greece together. Even in those days after April 6, no communists who monopolized the so-called resistance were mobilised. So they were still waiting for a favourable condition for the evolution of the revolution, as Kardelj said in 1940 in Zagreb at the fifth party conference. The so-called left historian Dr. Janko Prunk also spoke about this. You can read it. I don't have the time to quote Dr. Prunk. The continuation of these inaccuracies was that the Communists, the Slovenian Communists, and the Nazis celebrated together in the Rippers on May 1st. And a whole bunch of pre-war communists even went to Hitlerjugend at that time. The situation changes after the attack, therefore, after the start of Operation Barbaross, following the attack on the Soviet Union on 22 June 1941, when after a certain period of time this agreement of Ribbentrop-Molotov falls and world communists somehow become opponents of national socialism. But during this time, two more things are happening in Slovenia. Comrade Tanko spoke about May 13th, when the tigers first started fighting the invader in the fight against the Italians, as well as the inaccuracies about the day of the start of the struggle against the invader on July 22nd – a pure historical lie and an untruth. Today, as well as several times, I mention some of the Slovenians, who are most often mentioned, who are the unequivocal heroes of our half-lived history, who are prominent figures who led Slovenian identity to the European and world pedestal. Let me mention these people again: Tribal, Nobel laureate Herman Potočnik, Stritar, Plečnik, Miklosič, Bishop Slomšek, mentioned by her colleague, then Luka Knafelj, who founded the Knaflje institution in Vienna in 1676, Ivan Cankar, Max Fabiani, Yuri Slatkonja, no one knows about him, became the Danish archbishop 502 years ago. These are all top intellectuals who took the country to the world pedestal. Look, Boris Kidrič and the others, Edward Cardell, these are the stories that my colleague Pojbič used to tell you. These are stories of how to kill all the Slovenian elite and how to destroy this nation and take it to the third. [[Incomprehensible]] You're raising this today, saying it's something romantic, and on the other hand, you're talking about humanism. What kind of people are you? I don't understand you. I never, as a human, understood you as a Democrat. Who are you, who made you, and what kind of people can you somehow excuse?Oh, my God! And you are the bearers of the educational processes! I'll never understand you here. And Ivo Banac, an academic who was a Ph.D. at Stanford, said days ago just about who defends the so-called Titoist Bolshevist system. He said there was no Tito and his symbols, the essence of the titoists. They also destroy themselves, their way of life, all their privileges and so on for the loss of these symbols. This is why you are disturbed by topics such as today's major solutions, because you are disturbed by all the truth that is coming, and you are disturbed by those civil norms that separate us. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u163	Ms Jelka Godec has the floor. Okay, then we're done here. I'm closing the debate. I got the wrong idea whether you signed up for the word or not. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u164	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving on to 15. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S ON MANATE VOLUNTARY MATTERS We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Minister Because she was a magician. Claudius Markež appointed Minister of Education, Science and Sport in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members may not act as a Member as long as she serves as Minister. The National Election Commission forwarded a decision to the assembly on which candidate has the right to replace the Member of the Minister. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent-worker who gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. You received the report and it was published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: At the time when the Member of the Mag. Klaudija Markež, acting as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as an MP, shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from today, Mr Dusan Radič, born 3. 6. 1963, residing in Jordan's 28, Troopers, Silence. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I invite my fellow Member to join us and take his seat. [[Applause]] I wish my colleague to perform the work of a Member successfully in the parliamentary benches. Congratulations. We turn to the motion for the election of a candidate or candidate for a judge or judge at the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg By letter dated 12 March 2015, Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Dr Mark Ilešić or Dr Verico Trstenjak be elected to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. On 23 March 2015, Dr Verica Trstenjak withdrew her candidacy for the seat of Judge to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. I give the floor to Mrs Natasa Kovac, Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u165	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! On 16 January this year, the Ministry of Justice informed the President of the Republic of Slovenia that five candidates and one candidate, Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič, Dr. Marko Ilešič, a special professor, Dr. Slobodan Dujić, Professor Dr. Verica Trstenjak, a special professor, Dr. Marko Bošnjak and Lucian Bmbič, had applied for a post of candidate or candidate for a judge or judge at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. The President of the Republic obtained the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Council of Justice, in accordance with the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts. Both opinions state that all candidates meet formal conditions, while the Council of Justice gave priority to the candidate in the following order: Dr. Marko Ilešič, Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič, Prof. Verica Trstenjak. After examining all the proposals received and following consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, the President of the Republic decided to propose two candidates, Dr Mark Ilešič and Prof. Verico Trstenjak, under the sixth section of the Act, to be one candidate or candidate for a judge or judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. The President of the Republic estimates that both candidates, both the proposed candidate and the proposed candidate, with their competence, experience and reputation at home and in the world meet the high professional criteria for carrying out this important function. In view of the announcement by the President of the National Assembly that the candidate Prof. Verica Trstenjak has informed the President of the withdrawal from the candidacy, allow me to explain further the proposal by the President of the Republic for candidate Dr Mark Ilešić. Dr Marko Ilešič has been a judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union since 2004. From 2012 to 2014, the President of the Third Chamber of the Court, one year earlier, was the President of the Fifth Chamber. He was a member of the Senate and a Judge-Rapporteur in a number of important cases that ended with rebuttal judgments. As a rapporteur, he is particularly active in the areas of institutional law, EU law, economic law, personal data protection, consumer protection, transport law and private international law. Prior to his judicial office, he served as an EU court candidate since 1970 at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, and between 2001 and 2004, he was a dean, and between 1995 and 2001. He was an arbitrator of several arbitrations. He is active in many domestic, international professional organisations. In 2014 he also received the highest recognition of the Association of Associations of Lawyers of Slovenia, a recognition for life's work. Since 1985 he has been actively involved in sports activities. Among other things, he was President and Vice-President of the Football Federation of Slovenia, a member of the Court of Appeal of the World Football Association and the European Football Association. He has been engaged in civil, economic and international private law for more than 40 years. Its bibliography covers 428 bibliographic units by 2014. The candidate, with his extremely rich scientific opus and work both at home and abroad, strengthened his professional reputation and significantly helped to raise the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the wider legal profession as well as the lay public. He is active in English, French, Italian, German, Polish, Croatian and Serbian, and passively in Latin, Portuguese, Spanish and other Slovenian languages. On the basis of all the above, the President of the Republic considers that the candidate can undoubtedly justify very high professional expectations in the performance of this proposed important function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u166	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u167	President, thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! Your Honor! Six candidates, six excellent lawyers, six excellent experts responded to the call for a judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union. We are proud that in Slovenia, as a small country, we can overcome so many good top experts. We believe that the President of the State did not have an easy choice, which of these to propose to the National Assembly. Perhaps that's why he chose two candidates, Dr. Mark Ilešič and Prof. Verico Trstenjak, and thus left us with a final decision. Today we have only one candidate, because Dr. Trstenjak has decided to withdraw his candidacy. In this place, I must say that in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have had a conversation with Dr. Trstenjakovo and have made a remarkable impression on us, both from a professional point of view, its rich experience and recognition, the reputation at home and abroad, are truly remarkable, as with the human side. In view of her energy, commitment, and commitment to our work, we believe that we will hear much more about her. As has already been said, today we have only one candidate — Dr. Mark Ilešič. Regardless of the fact that this is a secret vote, let me say that we will place our votes in the Desus Group in favour of its election. Dr Ilešič is more than a suitable candidate in terms of professional competence, experience and recognised international reputation. After all, he is already doing an excellent job as a judge of the Court in the European Union, and we expect him to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u168	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u169	Honourable President, Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleagues. Your Honor! Today we will make another very important decision in the National Assembly. At the proposal of the President of the Republic, we will decide on the candidate for a judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. For this important and responsible function, the President of the Republic proposed to the National Assembly the candidate Dr. Mark Ilešič and candidate Dr. Verico Trstenjak. Last week, she withdrew her candidacy, leaving Dr. Mark Ilešić's candidacy before us. Let me begin by saying that we will support Dr Mark Ilešić as a judge of the European Union in Luxembourg in the Group of Social Democrats. Dr. Ilešič is undoubtedly an authority in the field of civil law in Slovenia. This proves his past work and an extremely rich scientific opus. Although the candidate started his legal course at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, where he also successfully completed his Master's degree and doctorate in legal science. He was an assistant, an associate and then a professor of civil, economic and international private law. It operated primarily under the law of industrial property and copyright, transport and status law. He was also six years predecided by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and three years later by her dean. Since May 2004, Dr Marko Ilesic has served as a judge in the European Union Court of Justice. During that time, Dr. Ilešič gained an outstanding reputation abroad. He is recognized among his fellow judges as a judge who is highly qualified, and his decisions are based on sound and lifelike arguments, including complex or complex legal questions. As a judge, the rapporteur also took part in the decision-making process in more dissuasive cases, such as the case of Google Spain, in which the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled, inter alia, whether European legislation on the protection of personal data gives the right to be forgotten. From 2012 to 2014, Dr Ilešič was President of the Third Chamber of the Court, and one year earlier, the President of the Fifth Chamber of the same Court. With all clear legal knowledge, Dr. Ilešič is also considered a great speaker who actively speaks several foreign languages, often helping him to communicate in a foreign language. Finally, in December 2013, Dr Ilešič was also in the National Assembly, more specifically on the Committee on European Union Affairs, where he presented the work of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the proceedings that took place in court and also concerning the Republic of Slovenia to Members and Members. In the Group of Social Democrats, we would like to see similar useful meetings with Dr. Ilešić continue in the future in the event of his election today in the National Assembly. In our Group of Members, we will support the candidate as Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union and we wish him well in his further work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u170	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for her, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, dear colleague and colleague! The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to us the candidate professor Dr. Verico Trstenjak and candidate Dr. Mark Ilešić for the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. In Novi Slovenije we regret that based on arithmetic, which was shown in the media of public information, electoral arithmetic, of course, Mrs Verica Trstenjak found that she did not have sufficient support and therefore made a logical move and withdrew from the candidacy and wrote very correctly in her withdrawal of the candidacy. I quote: "I support Dr. Ilešič's sitting judge professionally and would represent Slovenia well." That's what experts say. I don't have much time to list references published by scientific works, about 300 of them, many books and so on and so forth. So, the scientific work of Professor Vera Trstenjak. Let me also say below that the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats Dr Ilešić will not be opposed. Today, it has already been said that I invited Dr Ilešič, as opposition president of the European Union Committee for the Affairs of the European Union at the end of 2013, to the Committee on European Union Affairs. He was evidently surprised and said that after nine years of service in court he had been invited for the first time to the National Assembly. I think that by this practice, we should continue to invite people to the National Assembly sent to the eminent European institutions and invite them more than once. When Professor Verica Trstenjak concluded her term in the European Union Court of Justice in 2012, the press asked her where her next job or next job would be. I quote her answer: "I have accepted the offer of the Faculty of Law of the University of Vienna, where I will be a professor of European law. I've been working with this college for quite some time." And he goes on: "I have always said that I will go back to Slovenia, and this to college, because despite my former short jump into politics, I am happy to work with students. Last year, in 2011, I wrote a letter to all three law schools in Slovenia that I was coming back and that I was interested in academic employment. Unfortunately, there was no real interest in universities. Although they responded, they did not have a specific offer. But I was immediately offered a job by the European Faculty of Law in Nova Gorica, which is obviously more open, so I was happy to accept it. However, there was only a minimum employment planned there, only about 20%, so I sought employment elsewhere. I had many offers from abroad at the time, and I was able to choose. I also chose Vienna because it is one of the most prominent European universities and because I will be in contact with Slovenia. But I think it's sad. I'm sure the University of Vienna didn't take me because we'd like to have a Slovenka or because my name is Trstenjak. They were convinced by my references, my publications in international publications, my quote, my membership in the editorial boards and something else, which also brings points to the Vienna University. Even at Vienna University there are some who have been waiting for ten years to become professor of European law. This was empty for some time, and many Germans competed in the previous invitation to tender with the Austrians. But they did not select anyone because no one met the requirements of international excellence or international influence. That's why I can count on the honor of being chosen now." End of quote Verice Trstenjak from an interview. Let me just say that he is also a member of the board of directors of the Max Planck Institute, which, as you know, is some sort of incubator of Nobel laureates. Too bad we don't have a chance to support a woman. In a way, we Christian Democrats are often inclined and attentive to women. Last but not least, the Catholic Slovenian People's Party passed the law back in 1910 and then 1920. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u172	You need to close slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u173	Election rights for women, too. [[…]] And we are the heirs of such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u174	The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u175	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representative of the Office of the President, distinguished representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the proposal submitted by the President of the Republic, the SMC Group expresses its support for Dr Mark Ilešić as Judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union. Dr. Ilešič, with his personality and the work of civil law authority, is both at home and abroad. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, where he later became an assistant, associate professor and then a professor of civil, economic and international private law, with a number of years as a carrier of basic subjects of civil and economic law. Its bibliography covers a total of 428 bibliographic units by 2014. He also marked the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in the managerial field as a prodecan and dean. It is generally spoken of between legal colleagues and students only in superlatives. Among other things, he was an arbitrator at the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia and Slovenia, an arbitrator at the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris, a judge at the Court of Appeal of the European Football Association and the International Football Association and a member of the International Association of Lawyers. For the past ten years, his professional path has marked the position of judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union, with a unique reputation abroad as a highly discerning, professionally well-designed and life-based right-to-do judge. It is a polyglot that speaks envious thirteen foreign languages. To enjoy high respect among the Luxembourg legal elite, among other things, they have been reflected in the presidency of the three and then the five-member Senate of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The work of Dr. Ilešič and his extremely rich scientific opus is almost impossible to sum up in such a short time, so I will conclude with a mention of a special and self-involved enough eloquent gift received last year by the Association of Associations of Lawyers of Slovenia. It's a confession to life's work. It follows that Dr. Ilešič has established his professional reputation and has significantly helped to raise the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the wider legal, professional and lay public. That is why we will support him in the SMC Group as a candidate for a judge at the European Union court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u176	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings for me, too! The final act will now take place in a few moments as regards the election of a European Union judge in Luxembourg. Six candidates applied for the invitation to tender. The Council of Justice supported three candidates, Dr. Ilešič, Dr. Trstenjak and Dr. Zupančič, in this order. In some ways, he also set his own priorities. It must be said that the Government has also forwarded this proposal to the President of the Republic. After the talks, the President of the Republic sent two candidates, Dr. Ilešič and Dr. Trstenjakovo to the National Assembly. During our interview with the President of the Republic, we supported Dr. Trstenjakovo, without in any way denying or overlooking the quality of other proposed candidates. We have based our decision on the references of the candidate and her experience and diversity in the functioning of the judicial sphere both at home and abroad. I'm afraid the candidate has stepped down. Only Dr. Ilešič, who is already the judge of this court, remains. We also had a conversation with Dr. Ilešič at the time when the President of the Republic sent a proposal to the National Assembly and we know his work. We've known him before. However, we would like to draw attention in particular to the conduct of the President of the Government of Dr Cerar, who met with Dr Ilešić in Luxembourg at the time of the opening of this candidature procedure and when the individuals or those who have been called upon to do so have not yet made a decision. That was February 11th this year. Dr Ilešič was, in fact, the only candidate with whom the President of the Government met during this period. This was also confirmed yesterday in response to the question. We are of the opinion that, in this way, the President of the Government has shown his preference even before the decision of both the government he leads and the parliamentary group which is an integral part of his party. We believe that such an approach is not correct, as all other candidates who have been registered have thus been placed in a deprived position. Here it is very difficult to attach to Dr Cerar's opinion that the election process was transparent, impartial or at least seemed impartial. It's not like that. In this way, the President of the Government has violated his commitments, part of which is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, in order to act transparently, ethically, fairly and to respect the principles of the rule of law. Unfortunately in this case, in other Presidents of the Government, too, this was not the case. He didn't tell anyone about his meeting with Dr. Ilešič. Even in this note, which was probably transmitted to the President of the Republic, and also in the opinion we received in the National Assembly, this is not to be observed. We believe that the concealment of the President of the Government, that he has met with one of the candidates in the selection process, but this is an important decision, means that he has hidden an important fact to the public. This mode of action is far from transparency, far from the public principle and also transparency. Here I can only say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we cannot agree with such an approach to the work of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u178	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The panellists are no longer present, so I conclude the debate. We will therefore vote on the election of Dr Mark Ilešić as a candidate for Judge in the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. The vote will take place after the conclusion of the debate by 15b on the agenda. We are moving on to the proposal to appoint the Director of the Securities Market Agency. By letter dated 12 March 2015, the Government proposed to the National Assembly that it appoint mag as the Director of the Securities Market Agency. Dear Time. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin, for further explanation of the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u179	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 11 March, the Director’s term of office expired to the Director of the Securities Market Agency and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in accordance with the Law on Public Agencies at its 26th meeting,12. On a proposal from the Board of the Agency's Acting Director, Ms Anko Čadež appointed Mrs Anko Čadež until the appointment of the new Director of the Agency or by 12 September 2015 at the latest. The Law on Public Agencies provides that the performance of the Director’s duties may be appointed for a maximum of 6 months. In accordance with the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the Director of the Agency shall be appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the Agency, in addition to the Bank of Slovenia and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, is one of the three supervisory authorities of the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to ensure the smooth work of the Agency and to appoint a director. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to appoint Mag. Dear Time. Mr. Time is a master of legal science. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, where he also completed master's degree in civil and economic law. At the Supreme Court in Ljubljana he conducted a judicial internship and a legal examination. He has obtained a certificate from the Association of Supervisory Board Members. At the beginning of his business career he was mainly involved in the project of the establishment and operation of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, Ljubljana. On the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, he served as Director of the sector for Legal and General Affairs and was also a businessman of the stock exchange. From 1994 to 1996 he worked as a researcher at the Department of Civil and Economic Law of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, from 2002 to 2006 he served as a member of the professional board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. From 2006 to 2012, Mr. Time was a member of the Triglav administration, the Management Company, and from 2012 he is a consultant to the Triglav administration, Sklad. In his work, he did more than just deal with the area of securities. He also actively participated in a broader financial area, ranging from insurance, banking to corporate and financial law. On the basis of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to appoint a mag. Dear Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u180	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has been given by the modern center's Members of Parliament, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister, Secretary of State is a very nice greeting! In the SMC Group, we believe that it is crucial that the Securities Market Agency be assured of a smooth functioning, since its fundamental mission is to maintain a safe, transparent and efficient market for financial instruments. The Agency needs a strong and professional leader with extensive experience both in the field of securities and in the wider financial area. Finally, this institution, together with the Insurance Supervisory Agency and Banka Slovenije, is responsible for the supervision of the entire financial system in the Republic of Slovenia. The government has appointed mag as the new Director of the Securities Market Agency. Miloša Time, whose term is expected to take place in early May. The SMC Group will support the government's proposal today. Mag. Time graduated from Ljubljana Law School. In his work he not only dealt with the area of securities but actively participated in a broader financial area, ranging from insurance, banking, corporate and financial law, which proves his membership in functions in various fields. For two years he also worked as a researcher at the Department of Civil and Economic Law of Ljubljana Faculty of Law, and as a lecturer and writer of professional materials he worked with legal and economic universities in Ljubljana and Maribor and other educational institutions. For four years he served as a member of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and was a member of several working groups for the preparation of systemic financial legislation. He was a member of various professional groups in the field of privatisation, capital markets and finance and a member of the supervisory boards of companies in the Republic of Slovenia and abroad. Throughout his career, he has been educated and it is appropriate to highlight in particular the practice of the Vienna Stock Exchange of Securities and Education in Foreign Institutions. Mag. Time has proven to be a reliable candidate for the management of one of the three supervisory authorities of the financial system in Slovenia with its expertise and rapid work experience, so we will support it in the Polish SMC Group as Director of the Securities Market Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u182	The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, for her mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, a respected government! If you type the word ATVP into your web browser, you will get a set of articles on the front page that say, the ATVP country has taken away voting rights in NKBM, Krka, Petrol, Insurance Triglav and so on. It is therefore an institution that plays a very important role in terms of governance of state property in a country that has a significant part of state property. The appointment in the debate on privatisation, real privatisation is therefore all the more important and requires decision makers to elect or appoint a person who is beyond all doubt as to the management of state property and the protection of legality. The controversy on the Commission's mandate was very lively. What did we hear? In the debate we learned that Mr Miloš Time was employed at the Ljubljana Stock Exchange between 1989 and 2006, and that he served as Director of the Legal and General Affairs Sector and was also an authorised or business officer of the stock exchange. We also learned that between 2000 and 2003, in his mandate, 566 virtual transactions were to take place across the stock exchange. The ATVP, that is to say, this agency, which controlled the functioning of the stock exchange, even found that between 1999 and 2001, the stock exchange, in which Mr Time was the Director of the Legal and General Affairs Sector and was the business authority of the stock exchange, did not control as much as 95 virtual transactions. Further, due to the suspension of the duty of conduct, the ATVP went on this basis to the management of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange to all except the Director of the Legal Affairs Sector and the business commissioner of the stock exchange to Mr Time. It is worth mentioning, of course, that at that time, the Head of Justice and Deputy Director Alja Markovič Time, the wife of Mr Time, who took part in the last local elections on the list of SMCs, was also a member of the ATVP. However, according to the auditor, since the government's performance, the transactions have increased fourfold. In the course of the debate on why Mr Time left Triglav, the Management Company, in June 2012, we received Mr Han's call, which was when Janša came to power. Mr Han therefore said between the lines that Mr Time's political color was not right and that a person clearly with a political pedigree was at the head of a very important institution. About Miloš Time, when the media announced that the government was proposing it, they wrote that this was a surprise and that Time "had never hidden ambitions after taking over any of the important financial functions", the end of the quote. The Coalition Treaty states: "The new political action must be decisive and unrelenting to all those who wish to use politics in any way for their own interests." Because this is what the Coalition Treaty says because it is a key time for privatisation because it is such an important function because the Government has also had concerns, because it has not placed this point on the agenda for two months, and since the Government has already appointed the perpetrator of the duty by September of this year, we believe that the Government should make an effort and find a candidate with broad support, so we cannot support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u184	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For several years now, in Slovenia as well as in many other countries, one of the key and priority tasks of finding a way out of the abyss, where the financial and economic crisis has swept us. And in Slovenia we are on a good path. The results of a series of measures taken are already showing. Of course, flowers are not yet laid for us, but we can see that we are slowly getting better. We all have a school in common, and we need effective, transparent and constant financial supervision. In addition to the Bank of Slovenia and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Securities Markets Agency, which represents one of the three supervisory authorities of the financial system in our country, is therefore crucial to ensure its smooth work, which means that the new management of this supervisory authority is called. As a suitable candidate for this function, the government has proposed a mag. Dear Time. I must admit that in the Desus Group, we did not devote ourselves to his family and other relations in deciding on the candidate's support, but rather decided on the basis of our professional competences and experience. We have concluded that the candidate is fit to perform this function, so he will receive our unanimous support. We don't mind his ambition either, but this has also been exposed at the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Equally ambitious, driven, and motivated are the qualities that each management staff should have. The Desus Group believes and trusts the candidate mags. Miloš Time that the agency under his leadership will further strengthen this role as supervisor of the Slovenian capital market, so we will unanimously support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u186	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. He has a word, Mr. Franz Breznik. Mr. Jože Tanko has also been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, if you're wondering why in important systems in this country nothing happens or doesn't reveal anything, you have a typical example of how in a narrow circle individuals rotate around important institutions in this country. Mr Time was, as we have heard before, employed at the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, a woman at the ATVP, and this was just at the time when many so-called managers were allowed to park hidden shares that they bought in various parking spaces within this country. It was just a time of unfinished transition still. And until there's been a change in the takeover law, and that's what happened in fact, I think in 2006 or 2007, there's nothing in the government until then. It was all parked by various mailboxes. And because of the change in the law they had to disclose their ownership, then this story opened up that the most Taiwanese loans were granted in the time of the Janša government. At that time, those who had parking spaces also had to take over certain things. And the next thing that I think is important to me is that this gentleman's wife was also in the AUKN, that's what she was doing with all the state property. And now let someone explain to me how non-clientistic it is that two people can occupy the highest places in three important institutions, one part at a time or the other. In the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, the AUKN and the Securities Market Agency. At the Securities Market Agency, they will even be both employed or married for one period before, and then for a little break and now again, husband. If in this country, we cannot find persons who at least awaken the appearance of impartiality, the appearance of disconnection, but rotate the same persons, then we can probably not make any radical changes and expect any procedures or findings. It's similar inside the banking system. It's happening exactly the same there. Between Banka Slovenije, business banks intertwine and pass people from one function to another. And when we demand information in the National Assembly to be transparent, everything is easily blocked. Minister Gaspari was Governor, was Minister, Mr Jašovic was a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and Director of the New Ljubljana Bank. And in this case, he has exactly the same. As long as you are so resourceful, individual chains will circulate across different functions and then block any action on transparency, transparency, as you like to say, until then, there will be no responsibility. It's just gonna happen, and the money's gonna have to be approved. Nothing concrete and correct will happen in this process. The only burden will be on taxpayers either through State debt or through new taxes. Things like this can't do any good. I think that the proposer, the RS Government, should withdraw this proposal for the reasons given in the position of the Group of Members and also in this debate. Otherwise you will put on this transparency, ethics, etc. one large stain. Mr Dobovšek can tell you, this is about establishing a definition of systemic corruption. And in this way, no significant changes are expected in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u188	Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg and the proposal to appoint a Director of the Securities Market Agency. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts or Article 477(7) of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments on the Election of a Judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg and on the appointment of a Director of the Securities Market Agency, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Mag. Bojana Muršič from the SD Group, Miha Kordiš from the ZL Group and Mr Jožef Horvat from the NSI Group – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 74 were voted against and no one opposed them. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes will be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or the word "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate for a judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. However, in accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 477 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, a candidate for the Director of the Securities Market Agency will be appointed, if also voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed votes to the ballot box, which will be placed at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 19.25 p.m. and will last until 19.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing our meeting. We are moving on to a closed 15th point, first of all to the proposal to elect a candidate for a judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of Dr Mark Ilešić as Judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg: The vote was held at the House of the National Assembly today, 31 March 2015. 72 ballots were distributed, 72 ballots were delivered. There were 18 ballots invalid, 54 votes valid, 52 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Marko Ilešič was elected candidate for Judgeship at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg by a majority of the votes of all Members. Dr. Mark Ilesich, I congratulate you on your election. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the appointment of mags. Miloša Time for Director of the Securities Market Agency: The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 31 March 2015. 72 ballots were distributed, 72 ballots were delivered. Four votes were invalid, 68 votes were valid. 49 members voted in favour and 19 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Miloš Time with the majority of votes of all Members appointed as Director of the Securities Market Agency. to the Director of the Agency for the Market in Securities Mag. Dear Time, I congratulate you on your appointment. We are moving on to a hearing on the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Tomaž Pavčnik as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the appointment of Mr Tomaž Pavčnik as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the motion for a decision appointing a deputy member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Nic Bezovar to the National Election Commission as a deputy member on a proposal from the parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 64 votes in favour, none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u190	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed law. In the SDS Group, we have included amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act for several reasons. The fact is that the Slovenian banking system was the only one of the transition countries that had been rehabilitated for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery cost us more than €5 billion, and the question is whether this is the last number. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that a large part of the responsibility lies with the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia, who did not do what is likely to be done as it should. That is why we have decided to propose certain amendments to this law. With the amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this institution would become even more transparent and effective and would have long-term implications for the more successful functioning of the Slovenian banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that by amending and supplementing this law we do not take the independence of this important institution for Slovenia, but, above all, we believe that even if the agency is independent or any other institution, this does not mean that this agency or institution must be unsupervised. The possibility is still, some of the debate was qualitative, all coalition parties agreed that the law itself needed to be amended, but I am of the opinion that today you will not turn on the green light of this bill simply because it was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u191	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Parties of the modern centre of mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, President. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre does not accept the claim that the proposal for amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act is not confirmed for reasons of being submitted by the largest opposition SDS party. Nor does the existing bill's amendment make sense because certain events are foreseen in the coming time, which will certainly affect the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. The reasons for refusal are as follows. First, the opinion of the European Central Bank of 2. 3. on the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the members of its management bodies and, secondly, in the last period, circumstances have emerged which should be incorporated into the Bank of Slovenia Act. These are: the investigation of the bank hole and the liability of the members of the administration and the supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks in state ownership, the responsibility to carry out the investigation, or is transferred to the Bank of Slovenia, which also raises the issue of the Bank of Slovenia's liability for poor action against managers in the period 2008-2013. The Bank of Slovenia has a reduced competence with regard to the prudential supervision of business banks, since to a certain extent it is directly assumed by the European Central Bank. Banka Slovenije also takes over the bank resolution fund. With three. 7. the Directive of the European Union on the introduction of the Deposit Guarantee Fund of credit institutions, which will also be managed by the Bank of Slovenia, enters into force. By adopting the Banking Act 2, it adopts a system for the exchange of information on client creditworthiness. Finally, today it is difficult to predict the impact of the European Union directive on the Bank of Slovenia on the monetary union. It is in line with the SMC's position that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u193	Even in a personal name. Please sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, chairman. The high amount we needed to rehabilitate the banking system, as well as the many publications that have appeared in the media over the past weeks and months, have certainly left us with little confidence in our banking system regulator – Banka Slovenije. Above all, we can assess this precisely because of the level of the necessary rehabilitation, i.e. the amount of €5 billion that we needed for the banks. Of the proposed changes, two are particularly important to me. The first is that Banka Slovenije reports forwarded to the National Assembly must be sufficiently comprehensive and contain all the necessary information. Even the confidential ones, if that's what it takes. The second is that a representative of the opposition, the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, is present on the very world of the Bank of Slovenia. These two changes, as well as the rest, would increase the transparency and responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. I believe that the adoption of the proposed amendments would raise the profile and restore confidence in the Bank of Slovenia and that, above all, the National Assembly would have a better opportunity to obtain more data, and thus in some way determine the responsibility for the situation in the banking system. For this reason, I will, of course, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u195	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this proposal mainly because the Constitution obliges the National Assembly to directly respond to the National Assembly by Bank of Slovenia. The National Assembly is faced with a question of how to actually control Banka Slovenije if, on the one hand, even the Court of Auditors does not do so. On the other hand, the National Assembly does not even have the information it would need for some supervision. Despite the fact that many meetings on the Bank of Slovenia and the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia have been held, the National Assembly does not, in fact, get the data that it would actually need in order for this control to actually take place and that it is running smoothly. The most important thing about this is that Banka Slovenije finally uses taxpayers' money. Banka Slovenije orders the owner, which is in most cases the Government of Slovenia to recapitalise banks, recapitalise them with taxpayers' money, and finally we are here to answer taxpayers for their tax money. For this reason, I believe that it is imperative to amend this legislation in the direction of, on the one hand, the greater responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia and the retention of transparency as well as the non-political functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. The greater responsibility does not exclude less transparency and does not preclude Banka Slovenije from becoming a non-political institution. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u197	Now we can vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. The conclusion is that it is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the assembly and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law on the law on the subject has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the first reading. It is a statutory law governing education and education from kindergarten to high school and, over the years, this law has changed both in content and in the areas of financing. We have also received solutions over the years to develop awareness of national ownership and identity in schools and kindergartens. Despite the legislation written down, we can today find that something is not being implemented consistently. In our country, the development of democracy and freedom of society is based on respect for human dignity, and this development began with a break in the previous regime and the enlargement of various totalitarian regimes is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that the Republic of Slovenia is a democratic state. The increase in totalitarian regimes today is therefore unconstitutional and not based on democratic values, but on the values of the regime before independence. In particular, we can see that in certain areas of education, especially in primary schools, totalitarian regimes are being promoted and the law that speaks about this in its objectives of carrying out civic education and education for democratic society is being consistently respected. Therefore, in the amendments themselves, we propose to amend Article 2 or to add to Article 2, which speaks of the objectives of the education programme, that awareness should be raised against all types of totalitarianism. At the same time, the law adds a new provision in Article 12 that it is also mandatory to define ways of integrating patriotism into the educational and educational programmes themselves. At the same time, with a substantive change, we also want to amend Article 86, which provides for the financing of private schools. Private schools are now funded at 85% and the Constitutional Court is by decision 4. 12. 2013 provides that this Article is unconstitutional and that private schools must be financed in the same way as public schools are financed. We therefore propose to amend the second paragraph of this Article so that private schools are financed by 100%. However, since today, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has failed to detect opposition to such changes, she has also said that she supports private education to support the integration of patriotic civic education into the whole of education. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u199	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we reject the proposed amendments to education and education that have come from the right because we see them as a threat to the further decommissioning of the public school system. Why is that? Firstly, the SDS wants to increase the flow of public money into private pockets. According to their own calculations, an additional EUR 390 000 would be poured from the funds of all citizens and citizens into private school accounts. And a second time. The proposaler wants to break down the complexity of history into some simple manic couple of good and bad, as he himself fits according to his own ideological site, according to his own ideological beliefs, and then wants to subjugate these beliefs to all generations that are growing up today. In short, under the sentence of totalitarianism, SDS wants to transform the education system into its special ideological apparatus. What exactly is wrong with private education? Private education does not serve public benefit, but pursues ideological or profitable goals. With what motive would someone want to expose his educational institution? And they oppose these private goals in the United Left because they are contrary to the common good, and they are often at the service of the high clergy of the Roman Catholic Church. One of such special motives, for example, is right-wing thundering over totalitarianism and exclamation of freedom. What's it really about, what's behind these screams really, we know. It hides a hysterical, cultural and ideological defeat of the people who defeated the invader, that is, our people. He is disturbed by all the crevices, the proposer, the half-lived social revolution and the cultural liberation that has taken place. In fact, the heroic human resistance against the invader, the fundamental social transformation into social equality, and the cultural self-esteem that began out of it, is referred to by the SDS as totalitarianism. In the United Left, we will vote against this proposal, but I would like to add that it would be more meaningful to deal with the issues of how to set up a high-quality open public education for all, rather than dealing again with Esdes totalitarianism and totalitarianism. We have very important questions ahead of us, as regards the specific field of education at all. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] History and historical facts would suggest that such things should be preserved and that they should draw inspiration from people's efforts to the future, not capital. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u201	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You are usually very specific in your explanations of vote, when some of my fellow Members fail. What we have now heard from Mr Kordiš, with much written by the gentleman, is not an explanation of the voice, but of the controversy or of the debate and controversy with the parliamentary group. I propose that you avoid further complications or instruct the Members of the United Left, what is the explanation of the voice in their personal name and teach them what the debate is and what the process proposal is and so on, because they have confused everything. I suggest that you warn your colleague, as you have given them to my colleagues and I, on several occasions, for discussions that have been standardized either as a replica or as an explanation of vote. I'm asking you to respond properly! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you for your procedural proposal. Ms Irena Kotnik has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. In the SMC Group, we believe that the upgrading of elements of domestic and civil education must be based on substantive and, in particular, professional starting points and considerations. The content and objectives of individual curricula and subjects and their each-time upgrades cannot be merely a matter of political decision-making, especially when it comes to such important elements as the development of national and patriotic consciousness. Let us once again stress that fundamental prerequisites for domestic education are humanism and tolerance, but integration and convergence are essential, not separation. Domestic education is always an education for and not an education against. Since the field of domestic education plays an important role in achieving the long-term objectives, the public education and education system, and since the issue of private schools is not only linked to the level of funding, every time changes to the umbrella law must be considered, professionally justified and well-planned. In the SMC Group, we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u205	There will be obvious reasons in their own name. Please sign up. Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, this time I will be very brief. I'm not going to support the proposed novel because I think it's too thoughtful. I believe that the purpose is good, but given the position of the Government, which has also committed itself, and according to my information it is already in the preparation of an amendment to the existing law, which will surely systematically and in the long term bring improvements to learning systems, including in terms of the additional placement of domestic education as well as other content, I think it is reasonable to wait at this time, to allow the professions to define the content accurately, and in particular in the interest of non-separation, as was the power to conclude very easily through today's debate, but in terms of simplifying the entire Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u207	Mr Franz Jurša has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u208	At the outset, I must say that, for some of my objective reasons, I cannot support the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, mainly on some fundamental issues. I must admit that, for objective reasons, I have followed this debate somewhere else today, but not in this Chamber, and I must say that what has been said brings a single controversy within the Slovenian people. The debate on one side, perhaps a little more than on the other, was unbearable, inappropriate, ugly, rude. I think that the President should stop this debate at some point. On the basis of such discussions, Slovenians and Slovenians have their views on us who are sitting here. It's a patriotic thing to explain to each other in his own way. One part of history would match one part, the other part would match the other. What if we sat together once and tried this matter and somehow twisted it into one common thought and idea and then applied it. But you know, I'm telling all of you, or all of us, because we all think that our business is the right thing to do. It's not. And to wrap it up. A nation that is ashamed of its history is not worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u209	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u210	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Of course, I will support the proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation of financing for education and education. But not because it is a proposal from the SDS Group of Members, but because it follows the Constitutional Court's judgment. Today's debate was really long and wide and I have rightly received the impression in the debate that a number of debaters have not read the Constitutional Court's judgment. Of course, in our parliamentary group, we are fulfilling our role, i.e. the role of the opposition, the government's supervisor, and we are assessing that the government is late. It doesn't work either. Look, sometimes there were modern jeans, sometimes sweatpants, sometimes Kelly Family gangs, sometimes shopping in Graz, but today, if I use or look at the name of the ruling party, it's modern nothing to do. That's why we came to work. If we keep going. The Constitutional Court's judgment clearly gives us guidance as a legislator to prepare a new Law on the organisation of financing for education and education. And not here, please, to sell some ideological flossules and a password against private, against capital. Look, we're in the 21st century, 2015. When we talk about private and public, let us look at the case of primary education. We have 744 primary schools, which are public, and 3 private primary schools. Now you're saying that these three private schools are responsible for all the bad conditions in the country. Please don't paint us, not fool the public. I support the debate on the issue in education, which has turned out to be broader today. But look, the Constitutional Court's judgment has to be respected. The law is at first reading, and we can complement it through further procedures, so I see no need to reject anything. Of course, I'll support the marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u211	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you, President, for your word. I will support the proposal for a law, because I have before me a decision of the Constitutional Court, which nicely states that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI is in breach of the Constitution in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes. We can think about the decisions of the Constitutional Court, what we want, maybe someone agrees with them, maybe someone disagrees with them, but I think they need to be respected, and especially read them before anyone wants to comment. The Constitutional Decision is very clear, and the bill in the first half of the law follows this decision of the Constitutional Court and unlike many debaters, I do not see in the three primary private schools any entertainment, no decommissioning of public education, no enrichment of private education, but I only agree with what has also been stated in the Constitutional Court that public schools and private schools should be equalized where 100 % of their programme is financed. Personally, I do not agree with the policy expressed today that the talk of patriotism is even some kind of spread of hatred or that the talk of patriotism is also an ideological question. This is a typical issue of the values of Slovenia, Slovenian countries, Slovenian people and obviously many Members and political parties have a problem with patriotism. I do not personally have it, so I also support the fact that it is necessary to include education for free society through the condemnation of all totalitarianism in primary schools and that the principles of patriotism in educational programmes should be included in all curricula where possible. I will support the law because I do not believe the promises of the government that will analyse, pay the author's fees, then debate, and in the end, it will decide typically ideologically.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u213	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u214	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you know, as I have already announced today, I will support the amendment of the law. I will support it because I am aware of what it means in public and what it means in private. I remembered a story I was going to read. In 1861, the famous naturalist William Barton Rogers founded an institution that he said he wanted to be an independent educational institution that would be important for an increasingly industrialized America. This facility is today called MIT. This institution is today the most important state institution in the world, it has given dozens of Nobel laureates. Dear colleagues from the United Left, this is the institution from which the patents come from, all those you have on your desks today, from mobile appliances, from notebooks to which colleague Tomić has just typed. This is the product of this ugly neoliberal capitalism, the market economy and, above all, the independent educational institution. The product of these scientists from those levels, from those educational institutions where there is no competition, where there is no scientific verifiability, as in our half-time history, where every document that Pojbič also drew means denying everything that they once told us. This is the sum total of this marriage. We want to get from this new generation critical intellectuals, people of the world, especially people who will have European and values of civilized nations. That's the essence of this marriage and the beginning is here on the table today. Thank you very much, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u215	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the law proposed by the SDS. I will support it because it eliminates the unconstitutional situation established by the Constitutional Court. It is that parents and children have the right to go to school wherever they want, either that the educational institution is public or that it is private. As we can see in the case of health care, there are no problems for private people, where the matter is public, but problems are piling up. The second reason I'm going to support this is that I haven't heard from Jozet Pučnik in high school before the first Janša government named the main airport after him. Not once did I hear what happened to the history of Slovenk and the Slovenians there after 1953/1954, where we reached the middle of May in the fourth year, and then we had history first only the ones we took at the graduation. I agree that all years of history are required, that's how I am. World War I, World War I and again, but it bothers me that we are not dealing in any way with that history, which is somehow the brightest light in the history of the Slovenian people, this is certainly the process of self-determination. I don't know if the problem of the people who were the main actors at the time is why it's not being done, on the six pages it was in the textbooks, but as I said before, we didn't get there. Last but not least, I will also support the article we are proposing: education for freedom and condemnation of all totalitarianism. However, I believe that this is a serious problem for some people, because if we tell young people in primary and secondary schools clearly what crimes and what injustices and human rights violations have brought us fascism, Nazism and communism, some of them will have problems here in parliament that are flirting with communist slaughterhouses, because they will have a large number of voters.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u217	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u218	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Of course, I will not support the bill, but allow only a few thoughts. This is a question of history that has been very much discussed today. I must say that we have no right, so I know for myself that no, to condemn our great-grandfathers who lived in Austro-Hungarian and were somehow satisfied or not. But it was their country. Our grandfathers decided on the State of SHS, a later Yugoslavia, and we can't judge them for doing so either. Their assessment at the time was that they went to something better, rather than an Austrian, German space. Nor can we condemn our fathers who went to another Yugoslavia. It seemed to them that they had done something good to go to a liberation war on the part of the fighters against Nazism and to form a community. We don't have any rights. We decided, of course, and went to Slovenia alone. And I'm not gonna let my kids say I made the wrong decision. I made up my mind at that time 20 years ago, just as I was then convinced it was best for me and for the future. So much for these big historical themes. Of course you need to know, school is always politics. It used to be a politician because the school was the monopoly of the Roman Catholic Church, and later the French Revolution began to turn this around and became a matter of laity. By the way, if I succeed, the fact is that 25 years ago we were persuaded, the school has to be neutral, the school can only teach, it can't raise. And today, interestingly, I've been listening all day to school having to raise. This is a great advance on the so-called right side.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u219	Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik, I presume. No, no, no. Mr. Hanžek would like to see you on a procedural basis. Sir, no sir, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u220	I can be a gentleman, too. I couldn't wait a while to react immediately because I didn't take offense. My grandfather's ancestors were communists. My grandfather spent decades and more in another totalitarian system just because he publicly admitted to being a communist, and then that system wasn't totalitarian for you. He spent two years in Italian and two years in German camps because he was a Communist. And he didn't slaughter anyone. And please, I'm protesting here that in this national council, you are comparing my ancestors to communist slaughterhouses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u221	Before we proceed, there is a general matter that applies to all such ideological speeches. Each speaker is responsible for speaking on the subject. The problem may be in the dark, but it is usually in the speaker or his or her attitude toward the darkness. At times, I feel sorry for just the listeners and the listeners, but no matter what, they are not to be underestimated, and even without yours or our warnings, they will be able to generate their own opinions. It's enough to get them to listen to us. Some sort of procedural or anything. Explanation. Please sign up. Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u222	I will support this law because I believe that private education is poorly treated in Slovenia because I believe that private education is too small and that it is right that children attending private schools have the same conditions as those attending public schools or that these programmes are equally funded. I also believe that in Slovenian education there is little consideration for the newer Slovenian history and that there is not enough content devoted to civic and domestic education and ethics. Since this bill proposes this, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u223	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law because the Constitutional Court has ordered the Government and the National Assembly to correct the injustice that has taken place in three private schools for decades. The Constitutional Court has imposed, and this must be eliminated, no matter what any of us think. This law also has financial implications – €390 000. And this is nothing in fact, it is only half of Stanka's honorary Setnikar Cankar, who has resigned or about the same fee of the Prime Minister, who received him for his scientific work. A slight expense. For some it is not even worth giving up for such fees and it seems inappropriate for anyone to refer to it. I will also support this law because it brings important content that needs to be upgraded and is not properly regulated in the current legislation and curriculum. It will probably also have to be remedied within the curriculums of some historical fact. Also, the fact that there were those who considered themselves communists by June 22nd, [[sign for the end of the debate]] Until the attack on the Soviet Union, the collaborators of someone you then condemn. These are indisputable facts. And in 14 days, we'll be celebrating a holiday on April 27th, a day of rebellion against the invader. But then it was the establishment of an anti-imperialist front, not a liberation front, and so on. In short, there is a great deal of content that needs to be defined in a new way, and it is also appropriate to present to schooling young people that we will not have problems like some coalition Members who do not know the two greatest public holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u225	Marijan Pojbič has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I have to say that I don't understand, I really don't understand why the coalition majority opposes this because 98.4% of us have only three private schools in the Republic of Slovenia. And I don't understand the fear of those who are trying to convince us here that this is wrong and that we are going the wrong way because they are afraid of competition. They cannot be afraid of competition if we have 98.4% of public education on one side and only 3 private schools on the other. And the second thing that seems very important to me is, Mr President, and honourable Members and Members, I simply cannot believe that we continue to listen to lies and falsehoods about our history and that some who speak falsehoods and lies in this House are trying to take advantage of the national liberation struggle for their privileges, that is, for the privileges resulting from this. This is distasteful, unacceptable and shameful. And those who talk about it in this way should be ashamed of you! For me, as a true Slovenian, the key is the independence of Slovenia; for me, my children, our grandchildren and all those who will have to live with what has happened in the future, and what we will do to ensure that they can live peacefully in the future and will not face such problems and situations as we now face to pretend to be history and try to convince us that we need to identify ourselves with what is not the truth. I wish our children, our grandchildren would live through this, so it's time to clear this up. I will vote for this law, of course, because I am sure that private education is by no means one that could have any effect on the fact that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u227	I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that, President. But to me, today's debate has confirmed how right it is not to adopt this law. If I had been in any doubt at any time before, I had been convinced that this law was not good enough to raise doubts that it was reopening ideological questions, accusing us of thinking differently than the right-wing option, of being a liar and so on. From this point of view, I have a very calm conscience and will vote against this law with a peaceful conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u229	Violeta Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I have to apologize to our constituents for keeping our mouths shut for so long. Our constituents say how we allow this fabrication of history and silence. Why do we let that happen? Because we want to stop doing this once. We want to stop, but don't stop. Making history is something you're very good at. History teachers don't hope in school when it comes to the NOB period because parents come up and threaten them. The fact is, Your Honor, I will say with respect, because you are only my colleagues that there would never be an independent Slovenia without a NOB. We'd still be under fascist German boots. Maybe that would suit you. Apologizing for collaboration is unacceptable. And if we want to come to any reconciliation, we have to stop these conflicts once and for all, stop with history and give people one perspective and keep talking. That's all I'm going to say. I'm not going to support this bill of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u231	Did I give anyone a word? Mr. Pojbich, I didn't give you my word. The debate is both at the main point and now in explaining the voice completely beyond what we are actually talking about and is completely ideological. I cannot do anything else as if I were to make those procedural proposals ahead of schedule. Now Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the word to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u232	Your Honor! I will support the bill myself because it follows the Constitutional Court's decision and strengthens education. First of all, more private education means better quality services or more competition and consequently better services – for whom? For our children. And let's be a knowledge society, let's be a development society. That is why I want this amendment to be adopted or to be read further. And secondly, the new law provides for more patriotism. And here, at least on the basis of the debate we had, some of you have completely bungled this bill. You mixed patriotism with nationalism. If we were in primary schools, if we were more involved in 1991 in classrooms, the course of Slovenia's independence – what would be wrong with it?. We don't deal with this much. Professors, teachers also tell politicians that at the end of the year there is no time for such content, and that somehow this period of Slovenian independence does not come on the day. Let me finish. I would like to point out that somehow a side-by-side view of half-time history in Slovenia, especially on the part of ladies and gentlemen, is actually inappropriate. And sometimes on this side we can be justifiably sad how you behave, ladies and gentlemen! For some of you have in the past sat in important, such and different coordinations, and also had an impact on what is going on in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u233	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. I will not support the law because the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of publicly recognised private school programmes is not in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is not in line with the interests of most people in this country. Constitutional judges and judges have their views, and this time they are, and this is not a lonely case, a lonely decision, with a small majority taking a private interest in the detriment of public common interest. The right path is to amend Article 57 of the Constitution and to clearly defend public education. However, the idea of public education is that knowledge is a good that belongs to everyone without discrimination. Therefore, it is not subject to market logic or some logic of individual political ideas, but is available to the layman for free and to everyone. We socialists are unconditionally committed to the social progress project, so we stand firm on the side of education as means of emancipation both in the case of an individual and the whole community. Public education alone is indeed in the public service, in the service of progress, in the service of all citizens and citizens. In any case, the school is in such or otherwise an ideological state apparatus. The school is man-made. The SDS proposal means education that creates, models a person in their own image. And I can't support that with the best of my heart.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u235	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u236	I'll support the marriage. But when I listen to this debate, I don't know if I'd cry or laugh, because I think very simple things are complicated to the point of disability. When you listen to today’s debate, it seems that we are talking about two different schools, obviously one where they teach that the earth is right, and another where they teach that the earth is round. That's not true, and it has nothing to do with the truth. Today, we are constantly talking about schools that are learning the public agenda. That's essential. Both private and public schools teach a publicly recognized program. And now we have 700 public schools on the one hand and 3 private schools on the other — all public schools. This means that individuals can go to all these schools and all these schools are carrying out a publicly recognized programme. Those Members who, before their term of office, would also have completed a term of office of a municipal councillor would probably know that state schools, where they are founding congregations, cost more than ten thousand euros a year. Those of you who were mayors, you know that. These public schools, however, relieve the country of this cost because they provide the money themselves. And now it is difficult to understand all this debate, what is the problem now if we talk about how a publicly recognised programme will be implemented in these schools. And it's a problem that this program has been paid everywhere equally, where state schools are, and where private schools are. Understand who can say that equal work is not equal to pay. Where are you liberals and socialists?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u237	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u238	I will support this marriage for a very simple reason. In view of the global situation, global analysts today predict that a billion new jobs will have to be created in the next ten years. Some of these new jobs will also belong to Slovenia. And you can only get any new job with a good education. A new good job can change a young person's life. A competitive job can change society for the better. And you can get a competitive job with a good education. This law introduces competition in education, for competitive jobs, in order to make it easier for young people to receive education for these jobs. This is actually the case, and this is the beginning of a process. Good education offers a competitive job and offers a perspective for young people. Without this, progress is not actually possible today. If both private and public education gives better results, and today all analyses show that this law also gives a better perspective for young people, that they will get a job, that their lives will change for the better and that life will change for the better for the whole society. That's why I'm going to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u239	We turn to a vote on the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 51. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on banking under the regular procedure. On Friday 27 March 2015, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u240	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the harmonisation amendment to Articles 53 and 402 before the third reading of the draft Banking Act. The Government of the Amendment shall submit, pursuant to Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the mutual non-compliance of the individual provisions of the Law due to the amendments adopted so far in the procedure for the examination of the draft law. The amendment to Article 53 is due to the non-conformity of the legal text which was the result of the amendment adopted to Article 54 of the draft Banking Act. In the second paragraph, it contained a period within which the candidate for a member of the supervisory board of the bank had to comply with the requirements laid down in Article 36, which lays down the conditions for the simultaneous exercise of several managerial functions. Because he was with the amendment by 54. The second paragraph of the draft Banking Act should be laid down in Article 53. The time limit remains the same, i.e. 6 months after the Assembly’s decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board to the Court Register. The second amendment concerns Article 402 of the bill. This is a correction of the error, as the amendment, which was adopted in the context of the second reading on the home working body, should be 401. Article, to refer to Article 402 of the draft law. As a result, the text of Article 401 has fallen out and the amendment proposes to include the content of the original proposed 401 in Article 402. The government expects the text of the draft Banking Act to be confirmed in the third reading as this will improve financial stability and investor protection in the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u241	Since the Government has warned and has also presented the amendment, this amendment will now be presented to all Members of Parliament on the bench before further consideration, as we have said in the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item after the end of agenda item 1. This concludes this agenda item. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have in fact prevented us from consulting in this part by imposing or distributing this proposal of harmonisation amendments on the parliamentary bench. At the time of the vote on the requests for answers to the questions sent, it is not possible to meet or consider this matter well. And you're asking us now when you're gonna give us a few ten minutes of time between just a meeting of the National Assembly to sort of quickly review it and then you're gonna technically pull down the session and finish it. I have already warned you that such a way of working as you have already chosen at one of the previous points when we discussed the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, when members of opposition parties had no opportunity to look at it, to study it, so that we could also prepare with the professional public an amendment, is now a similar matter. How can we act responsibly or judge this matter if we cannot? Above all, I would like to make a procedural proposal, given that it is likely that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will soon be held on the proposal of the President of the Government for a discharge, that this point, the vote on this amendment and on the law, should be postponed for a few days and that, at that time, the parliamentary groups should look at it, consult and see what this is really about. I think it's inappropriate for you to put a solution on the table so quickly and ask us to make decisions. Even with such an important law as this proposal, which is now in the vote. I propose that this procedural proposal be put to the vote. I also suggest you support him. In five days the world will not collapse, but it would be good to look at this and perhaps even look at the matter ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u243	There you go. In view of the consistent practice of adopting or carrying out second and third readings at the same meeting, I will, according to what has been said previously, order a 15-minute recess after the end of point 1 so that you can take a thorough look at the whole amendment and we will vote on it 15 minutes after the end of the first point. This is totally in line with what has been done so far in the National Assembly. All governments have worked this way and I see no need to do otherwise in this case. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, we've been listening to coalition Members all day, and we've read the government's position, and it's also been presented that our proposals are incomplete, they're not systemic, and that's why our laws need to be rejected in the vote. So far, you've done two of our proposals. You address us with criticisms, you ask us for some systemic arrangements, in this particular case, when the government came with a proposal of non-systemic regulation and the coalition supported it, and suddenly there's silence in the National Assembly and forget what you said a few minutes earlier about our bill proposals. I think that such double criteria in the National Assembly with the coalition Members and also with the Government are inappropriate. If you want the opposition party with limited resources to prepare a systemic solution, then it is perfectly normal for coalition members to ask their government to do so. But when the government comes with such a solution that obviously has no tail and head, and you accept something else that has no tail and head, then it's all O.K. and you go along nicely with these minimum standards of parliamentary procedure. You don't even respect them. That is why I propose, Mr President, that you have the same criteria and that you allow us finally once, that as an opposition party we can look at this in peace. The government has studied the law for two days to prepare the harmonisation amendments, and you want us to decide in 15 minutes, by getting to the House and back, it will certainly take some time. It's inappropriate. Unseemly. This law, which the Government has transmitted here on banking, is not necessarily a law to look at a transitional provision or a month longer than the law, but rather a substantive amendment. This has also been the case, and we would like, Mr President, to finally listen to the opposition party's proposal, which, by the way, is in no way inconsistent with the business arrangements. However, if we propose that the matter be postponed to the first session and that you vote on it, it is only possible to do so, I don't know, there until April 6th, by the day of the attack on Belgrade.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u245	I will examine the part to be examined and put to the vote as follows: On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the debate and decision on the harmonisation amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Banking shall be postponed to the next meeting of the Assembly. Do they want to speak about this in order to present the views of the groups? No, no, no. Can we vote on this? So we are voting on the proposal for a postponement. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] The decision is not adopted and therefore the third hearing for this law will be held at this meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, Mr Jožet Tank will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Jože Tank's question on human resources policy. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked the President of the Government about two nomination procedures, one for the Judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the other for the Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. These are two important procedures. It is correct that Slovenia proposes to these institutions the most suitable candidates, but unfortunately in these two cases it has proved that the President has met with one of all the candidates applied for. When it came to the Court of Justice of the European Union, he met only Dr Ilešič a month and a half before the completion of the proceedings, in an open candidature procedure. Six candidates were reported. In doing so, he has provided a certain positional advantage either informally or formally, since the Government has been a proponent in this process and in view of the position taken by the head of the SMC Group to always support these proposals by the President of the Government, probably also for some action by the sending group. The second proceedings still pending are proceedings for the Judge of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Many candidates have also been reported here, twelve, the process has not been completed, and this is where the President of the Government met only one of the candidates applied for. It's Dr. Gregor Virant. It is also difficult to speak here about the fact that the approach of the President of the Government is equal to all candidates. If he meets one of the candidates applied for, he is likely to have a certain advantage, at least informal advantage. And given that the Government is also a proponent in this case, this selection process also falls under the shadow of doubt. It is difficult to accept the fact that the President of the Government has said that he has not discussed the candidates in these procedures with the candidates. I therefore propose that the response of the President of the Government, which we do not agree with, by the way, because we know that informal meetings are sometimes more important than formal meetings, we also hold a debate in the National Assembly. I propose that this proposal also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u247	So we can vote on this proposal. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 46. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of the draft resolution, Ms Tomić, on the reimbursement of war damage. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you, for your word. This year it is 70 years since the end of World War II, and unfortunately we are still discussing ideological topics, as we can see. But war damage is not a darkness that distinguishes Slovenians. All are entitled to war damage, regardless of which side they were on. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this debate, because war damage is something that is not outdated. In addition, workers in Slovenia and the whole European Union are living worse and worse because of our debt, which Germany is irrelentingly demanding from us. Thus we must sell our most strategic companies, the companies that our parents and old parents built. Also support this debate in order to symbolically condemn fascism and Nazism, which is the greatest evil of past history. Fascism and Nazism, which also now raises its head again in the European Union, and not least because of the existence of the Society of Outcasts of Slovenia, people who have lost everything as small. The Fascists demolished their homes and expelled them as children to camps in Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Italy, Hungary. There were more than 80,000 of them. Today, there are only 11 thousand 287 of them still alive, while refugees and exiles are 12,000. Let me read from the book Ivica Žnidaršič, President of the Society of Evictions of Slovenia: "We returned tired and exhausted from four years of suffering, but happy to be back on our land. Many have not returned, many have returned to the mountains and looted homes, but all with the hope that one day someone will correct the wrong that has been done. But she's not. Under Article 50 of the Slovenian Constitution, the status and rights were regulated only for the fighters of the NOB, and there was no concern for civilian victims of war violence. The status of the victim of war violence was not granted to exiles and refugees until 1995. As early as 1991, the Society of Evictions of Slovenia had authorized the state authorities of Slovenia to erase the remaining war damage from Germany, which owed Slovenia and Slovenia several billion US dollars. At least what Germany should return to Slovenia is EUR 3 billion, if we do not take into account the revalorisation. Otherwise you will have to look these people in the eye and tell them to stop waiting, stop hoping, because you sold their dreams for good relations with Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u249	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 8 votes in favour and 53 votes in favour. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin regarding the measures taken by the Government to restructure businesses. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u250	People in the first place expect us to take measures in this house that will give people a job and a decent salary. I think that's the basis we all have to have in our heads. Today in Slovenia we meet a number of over-indebted companies living on the edge. If I'm speaking in a parable, I'd say they're not to die and not to live. At the same time, they have too much responsibility to continue to develop, invest in development, if they do not do so anymore, which are suddenly left behind for competition, they no longer have good products, and in this way they are lost jobs, including wages and the standard of people. That is why this country, and also this National Assembly, must actively engage in the production of measures that will enable small micro-enterprises, in particular family enterprises, to be able to restructure and thus recover. We haven't talked about micro and small businesses in this House. We talked in large mastodons, about banks, about billions, but we didn't talk about how an entrepreneur should get 10, 20, 30 thousand Euros of credit so that he could realize his business idea and create at least one job. And if anything, then I think that this debate would be useful if there were any problems. This was not the last reply from the President of the Government, which showed all the debate we have so far, which revolved around how we could start an economy in Slovenia, how we could maintain this economic growth, which we also achieved last year. If we don't do anything, then I'm afraid this bike will stop economically. We have one chance to start talking about these things and looking for solutions. As infertile debates such as many are, I think it is enough that now is also the time to engage in fruitful debates, although they may be difficult, even though they are much more complicated than debates about partisans and patriots, but they are essential for the future of the country, for the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u251	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion in the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Mesca on the question of quiet privatisation. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, six for them and 64 for them. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 64.]] I find that the decision is not adopted In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Nada Brinovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion in the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Mrs Nade Brinovšek's question on the emergency medical assistance project. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u252	President, thank you again for your word. The preparation of the emergency health-care regulations and the emergency health-care network has caused much distress and excitement between public health-care directors and the mayors as well as the general public. This is due mainly to the fact that this Regulation has been prepared in great secrecy and that the field profession has not participated in the preparation of this Regulation as desired. Therefore, it is also necessary, or a proposal by directors of public health institutions and mayors, to present this Regulation to all directors of public health establishments and to the mayors before the adoption of this Regulation. I therefore propose that a public debate be held, and here I also expect the support of colleagues from the coalition who have been to the Zagorje consultation and have also promised this support to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u253	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the same time, in order to avoid later problems, I inform you that the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 53 and 402 of the Banking Act has been published on the e-club. We move on to the next proposal. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonka Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smerkolj, to the question of Mr Lah on 11 environmental projects. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your word. In Slovenia we are available to draw more than eight hundred million European money from the old financial perspective 2007-2013 this year. Many of the projects that are in implementation have problems and some will not be completed and money will remain in the European Union. On the other hand, we have 11 cohesion projects that, following a decision by the Government last June, have already started and are now standing and waiting for decisions from the new financial perspective. It is possible to include some of these projects in the old financial perspective and to use European funds instead of those projects that will not be completed. We still have half the time of this construction season to finish this and make as much money as possible. The reply of one minister and another was such that it was possible to do so, but it was only necessary to obtain decisions from those projects that were not started at all and decisions were issued and those that would not be completed and to include those projects that would be completed until a certain stage this year, and thus we will avoid that much, probably even in 100 million, of European money in Brussels. It's not that simple. Contractors, investors are waiting for the projects to be started, but things aren't moving. The Ministry shall report every three months to the competent period on the progress of these projects. That'll be soon, 'cause it's the end of March. It is therefore reasonable to hold a debate here as soon as possible in the National Assembly and to speed up these projects so that as much money as possible will be drawn from the old financial perspective and we will draw on the new financial perspective as soon as possible. I therefore propose that a thorough debate be held here in the National Assembly, so that these projects will be launched as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u255	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič's question on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the constitutional legal provisions and relations between the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Justice and between the Supreme State Prosecutor and the Council of State and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Justice. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you very much. In my parliamentary question, I actually asked the Minister of Justice about his plans in this mandate, which he has in the field of justice, and I was particularly interested in his views on the three branches of government and the relations between them. But above all, I have included the Council of Justice. By the way, I found one study today that clearly says that there is no judicial council in the form we have in many other EU countries. Of course, there are now a number of reasons why we should discuss this in general, but above all these reasons are on the prosecution's side, on the Supreme Court's side and also on the Council of Justice's side. I don't have time to mention these reasons. We have talked about all this in extraordinary sessions or the agenda items in the National Assembly, so I think you know enough about it and I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u257	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on Mrs Eve Irgl's question of integrity and respect for legislation. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 49. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Matjaž Hanžka on the monitoring of Slovenian surface and groundwater and the sea. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group is given by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, the minister mentioned that she would try to find the money for monitoring the water that we are obliged to carry out because of the EU directive, and even more so because of ourselves. But that word "tried" proves to me that she doesn't know where she'll take it. I got the feeling that this answer was only meant to comfort me. But I can't be comforted that fast. These doubts also confirm the multiple decisions taken by this and some of the previous governments that only banks and those who irresponsiblely dispel our taxpayer's money are receiving attention. The people and the environment we're going to live in, nobody cares. It is also true that data should be generated for each year, regardless of when the results are reported in Brussels. This year will be the first precedent when we're late. These excuses that things are being handled by a new water agency are pointless. This monitoring water management agency will have nothing in common for a long time. Water monitoring providers in Slovenia were health care institutions, which were the only ones with accredited laboratories for these works. With the aim of a more rational work, all Slovenian health institutions joined the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which began operating at the beginning of last year. The national laboratory has accredited laboratories, accredited samples, equipment and everything that is needed. So we've set up a national monitoring laboratory, and now we're shutting down the monitors. More. As has been heard from the Minister's mouth, a new water management system is in place. However, as was the case with the words of comfort, the new organisation should take care of monitoring. This would make no sense to re-set up a system with extremely expensive analysis, a network of sampling, sampling sites, samplers and very expensive requirements for accredited methods. That is why, of course, I propose that we discuss this at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u259	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Anžeta Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Anzeta Logar concerning the owners of subordinated financial instruments. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you, President. My question, which I have asked the Minister of Finance, does not concern the reparation to any foreign country, but concerns in some way the reparation to our country and to the governments that have taken a seemingly unconstitutional decision, this is the deletion of subordinate financial instruments. The Minister of Finance, in his reply, which was not comprehensive, was very partial and was nothing concrete, provided only this information that the amount of these subordinated instruments purchased by natural persons is approximately €61 million, and the total amount, as we know, is €600 million. This is a question that can raise the costs of Slovenian recapitalisation of banks by more than 10%, which the Slovenian public requires and requires answers and responsibility. We have not received this, so I propose that we hold an extensive public debate on this and that the Minister of Finance adequately clarify the individual procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u261	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jernej Vrtovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, to Jernej Vrtovec's question on waiting species in the health sector. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u262	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our health system has a lot of anomalies. And one of the great anomalies is that we have really long waiting lines. Some information. In early February of this year, 105 thousand patients were waiting for outpatient examinations and interventions. An additional 87,000 patients are waiting for surgery and some other interventions. By 189 % waiting periods have increased beyond the allowable period in those who have a quick travel authorisation for operations and some other services. It's just a little bit of information about what kind of health system we have in our country. Given that taxpayers, citizens and citizens pay large, beautiful sums of money into our health system, they would expect to have a fair system for these sums paid in order to come at once. But no. The waiting species are still being extended, and I asked the Minister of Health about waiting lines, and I was not overly satisfied with her response. That is why I have also proposed that we discuss our health system in the context of the general debate. I also asked the Minister about the standards and standards of compulsory health insurance. With regard to the standards and standards adopted, two governments have already imposed that they must be accepted by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. This was the first Janša government and Pahor's government, and unfortunately Mr Fakin, his ZZZS of Standards and Standards, despite the decisions of the governments, has not yet been adopted. And I also asked the Minister about it, and I was unfortunately not satisfied with the answer. For this reason, I ask you to support me in our efforts to discuss waiting lines in Slovenian health care in the context of the general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u263	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the next draft of the National Assembly at its next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Pojbič on tax matters. We're voting. Excuse me. First of all, I thought you were waving at me and giving it up, but okay, obviously not. Mr Marijan Pojbič therefore has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. President. In the SDS, we will support this proposal mainly for several reasons. Firstly, this proposal is opposed by entrepreneurs, craftsmen, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and estimates that this introduction of the tax box will not lead to the upheaval of the grey economy. Among other things, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia cited the main reasons for tax evasion on the one hand and, on the other, the main proposals for reducing tax evasion. The main reasons for tax evasion are the high tax rate, the overly complex tax administration, the overly high contributions to employees, expensive conditions of employment, standards, certificates, permits, no rewards for the right taxpayers and a lack of a good state view. On the other hand, the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to reduce tax evasion: the introduction of a motivational tax relief in principle is considered by each account to reduce tax rates, to remove obstacles to tax administration, to reduce employees' contributions, to reduce transparency in budgetary management. They made it very clear how the country should address this issue of the grey economy. Not with the tax box. We also oppose this in the Slovenian Democratic Party and therefore we will also vote in favour of this proposal, which we are voting on today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u265	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Miha Kordiš's question on the official control laboratory of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. On 22 March this year, the legal deadline for the definitive transfer of the official control laboratory of the Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food – NLZOH was passed. The UKL under JAZMP has ceased to operate but has not begun to operate under NLZOH and the legal deadline is broken here. A bigger problem than breaking the law is that, at the moment, Slovenia exists without an operational control laboratory, pharmaceutical companies can graze on our market as appropriate. And as we know, they're good for profit, and no health at all. According to our information, the UKL is in fact unable to manage its function for several reasons. The first reason is human resources. The transfer of the UKL did not transfer his vital part to him, that is, the frame. As the Confederation of the Pergamum Trade Unions has warned, the new staff will not be able to be properly trained. And that's exactly what happened. The UKL cannot operate within the new NLZOH framework for human resources reasons. The second reason is the standards that the laboratory must meet to be able to perform the function of an official control laboratory. NLZOH also provides an analysis of the quality of medicines for private companies. In addition to the obvious conflict of interest at the expense of citizens and their health, the European network of control laboratories has a serious problem, as it explicitly prohibits the double role. According to the Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, NLZOH cannot obtain accreditation at all. Not only do we not have the UKL, we cannot even reach it, and this is in practice a significantly bigger problem than a violation of the law at the time of the transfer. We have no control over medicines, and we cannot put them back in place just like that, and in the given situation this is not possible at all. By destroying drug control, who acquires it? Due to the specificity of the situation, the human resources kitchen and policy, as usual, also fall short of the reason for saving policies, since savings are questionable or the Minister has specifically given the figures, but these were, as it were said, questionable or negligible. The only valid reason for a man to be born here is that he is somewhere in the interest of not having an operational control laboratory in Slovenia. In such situations, pharmaceutical companies may be placed on the market, which seems to them to serve their profit interests rather than their public health interests. That the powerful lobbies don't choose the means, and that's how we know. The Minister responded very harshly to my question. In fact, this core problem of accreditation of the control laboratory and the problem that the UKL does not exist at this time has been largely avoided, but in the end it has turned out to be a denial of the problem, let alone an explanation of how to solve it in any way. I think we need to discuss this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u267	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present and 12 votes against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: In the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Žnidar, on the question of reimbursement of the costs of toll control. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Chairman. I asked the Minister of Finance about the reimbursement of the costs to Dars in the exercise of the toll control. Dars as the operator exercises toll control and annually from this title collects EUR 7 million The total amount is the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The main task of Darsa is primarily to manage and maintain highways in the Republic of Slovenia, to build further missing road sections that are still missing in the Republic of Slovenia, and that Dars successfully repays all the credits he has rented, not to return or to fill the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with his operation. At the same time, it must be said that the DARS is in 100 % of its own countries and that the country has made a guarantee for all of Darsa's loans that we know to be very large. As we must all not be concerned and it is very important what Darsa is doing with such great financial obligations, I propose that public debate be held on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u269	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 22 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the harmonisation procedure in the Proposal for a Banking Act. Since the proposal for legislation was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to Articles 53 and 402 which was published on the e-club. The harmonisation amendment has already been presented by the Government's representative. At this point, I ask the leaders of the SDS Group, Mr Jožet Tank, whether he insists on a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest you take this break anyway. We'll try to take a quick look at this. However, the problem is when such proposals come to the table with incomplete solutions. We had already had a problem when in this law, which was comprehensive, you imposed on behalf of the coalition a whole bunch of amendments that you corrected the text, and in this case that was not enough, but you have to make the alignment. I suggest you give us these 15 minutes to look at this in peace and then we decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u271	We'll resume the meeting at 10 p.m. and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u272	Dear Members, honourable Members! We continue with the 8th item of the agenda.I ask if anyone wants to discuss it. Please sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In this short time, we, the honourable President, who you have given us for this harmonisation amendment, have examined this matter and found that in this case it is actually some sort of scarvest in the whole adoption of this law. I'm sorry. This law was adopted relatively late from the moment the government adopted it. The government adopted it in mid-December, 14 days ago, one week ago we adopted it on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and adopted 135 amendments. I think that the laws that have 135 amendments should not, in fact, be adopted in the National Assembly, mainly because they are ultimately inconsistent. During this time at our disposal, we have found that these articles are now in harmony. However, we cannot actually guarantee that the other articles are also harmonised. In fact, according to our assessment, there may still be certain inconsistencies between the articles of the law. As a result, we cannot guarantee in the SDS Group that this law is fully harmonised. I think we should conclude from this, however, that we will not adopt such weak laws in the National Assembly prepared by the Government of Mira Cerar, in this case the Ministry of Finance, together with the Bank of Slovenia. That's what we've been warning you all along. But of course the voting machine went its own way. And I call again or appeal to the ruling party to actually stop such a way of adopting laws. Today we talked about the banking law, the Bank of Slovenia law and your ruling party representatives talked about how things are going to be different now, how some other system laws are going to be better. But unfortunately they didn't. And this has already been shown by the banking law, which is a demanding law with over 400 articles and which is prepared to be nicely spoken of as a tramp. And then it is the responsibility of Members and Members to actually correct the mistakes made in this case by the government, because on the basis of government amendments then the coalition accepts its amendments. We know this procedure. We therefore propose that this is actually the last one to happen in this national assembly. So that we do not get back to similar or similar situations in the next marriage, and we will deal with this content once again. In the end, it will be our responsibility. And here the Slovenian Democratic Party is constantly pointing out that this is not how it works. It is up to you, Mr President, to actually stop such a way of adopting legislation with your authority, because it is easy to end up doing this to the detriment of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u274	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 20. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Let me say again that the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will vote against the Banking Act. We have already announced this in our position when, as a condition for voting for the law, we have also laid down our request or condition for our amendment to the 54th Article of this Law. What's this all about? This banking law does not provide competent supervisors precisely because our amendment has not been adopted. We have faced a brutal case for our taxpayers. Tax money had to patch up a bank hole that had a dimension of about €5 billion. But that's not all. At about this level, we still have bad loans in state banks. So it's only a matter of time before the next recapitalisation is necessary. And what did we do as a legislator? We didn't do anything. Although anyone who counts logically thinks, it is necessary to strengthen control. This is not the last thing European institutions do. This is what the European Parliament, the European Commission and, above all, this is why we have a banking union. And, thank God, the ECB took responsibility for banking supervision in the euro area on 4 November last year. But it will work closely with national supervisors, i.e. the ECB. How will a member of the Supervisory Board now be appointed by the Government, which is the Assembly of the State Bank and will not, of course, require competences, qualifications, licences, how this supervisor will now supervise a member of the administration who has a licence. In a way, the apprentice, with all due respect for the apprentices, will oversee the master. And it doesn't make any sense. And there's something else I'd like to say, Mr President. When we had a second reading and a vote on the amendments, at the beginning of the vote on the amendment of ZaAB to Article 53 of this Act, you announced that if this amendment was not adopted, our amendment of New Slovenia would become irrelevant to Article 54. We think there's been a procedural error here because we've tabled an amendment to 54. To the article and give a new address – it is true that in that haste as the vote took place, we simply did not act, as the Rules of Procedure ordered, to protest immediately and to demand a vote on our amendment. That's why we're disappointed. We're not going to make any noise about this, but this law will not increase control. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u276	Any other explanation for the voice? The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members of the State, the Secretary of State has another nice greeting! The main purpose of the amendments to banking legislation is mainly the transposition of EU legislation prepared in connection with and response to the recent financial crisis. The proposal for a law bearing the ZBan-2 code lays down the conditions for the establishment, operation, termination by new credit institutions, means banks and savings banks, powers and procedures for the exercise of control over the operations of banks and savings banks and the powers and procedures for the management of systemic risks related to the credit institutions themselves operating in the Republic of Slovenia. Surely there are risks and capital among important areas. As regards risk management, commonly known as liquidity and credit, this law extends to eight categories of risks themselves. In parallel, the implementation of internal controls, as well as the Bank's Compliance Institute, should be defined. No law, which is so good, makes it possible to do good banking if it is not followed in the first place by the most responsible in the banking management process by the right management board and the supervisory board. This is followed by responsible owners and ultimately by a bank regulator. In the SMC, we expect credit institutions to operate responsibly and in accordance with the principle of a good expert, and so on. to restore confidence in the banking system, especially in state-owned banks. However, we expect the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia to exercise full competence and responsibility and to take measures against managers in credit institutions in a timely and decisive manner so that the period 2008-2013 does not recur. The Bank of Slovenia must ensure banking operations in order to operate as expected by savings agents, commissioners and users of banking services, and last but not least the European Central Bank. In the SMC, we believe that the proposed law provides a good basis, so we will support ZBan-2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u278	Mr Marko Pogačnik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the PS SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u279	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support the Banking Act in the SDS Group for several reasons. Former President of the International Olympic Committee Juan Antonio Samaranch has always used one phrase after the Olympics were completed that these were the best Olympic games ever. But we could argue that this marriage is the worst that this National Assembly has ever seen. That the Legislative and Legal Service apply comments on so many sides as the content of the law itself, that we had to adopt more than 108 amendments to this law, that the Legislative and Legal Service found that there was a fragmentation of the banking system and banking arrangements, we can see in the SDS that this law would not contribute to the stability of the banking system in Slovenia, but would make the matter worse. We are concerned in the SDS, because according to some information this law was written right at the Bank of Slovenia, which is the regulator. How can we have confidence in such an important institution if it cannot produce one law? 5 billion Euros of taxpayer money. Whether it's the final number or not, we'll see. Finally, the voting machine of the Mira Cerar coalition made its own. You didn't support our amendments. An amendment that would allow taxpayers to see what and why they invested their funds in a bank hole, you did not vote. This means that the coalition of the government of Mir Cerar is not about getting to the bottom or to the conclusions and responsibilities of the bank hole. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that by adopting this law, the situation in Slovenian banking, there is a great risk that it can only worsen. The law is prepared poorly, it will allow for the fragmentation of the banking system, on the one hand will continue to apply ZBan-1 on the other ZBan-2, which means that additional opacity will be allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u280	Even in my own name, I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I will not support this law in particular because this law will not contribute to greater stability of the banking system. Nor will it guarantee greater responsibility for all those who actually operate in banks and not for the greater responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. As has already been said, this law actually constitutes the implementation of directives of the European Union. Unfortunately, however, if I use foreigners, these directives are mainly copied on the Bank of Slovenia and not understood. In particular, they are transferred without being understood, because this also indicates that the actual law was so inconsistent and that the Law-Legal Service had also warned that it could even be unconstitutional or contrary to certain provisions of the Slovenian Constitution. After all, ZBan-1 will still apply, other laws will apply, which means the confusion is perfect. In this confusion and in this mud swamp will succeed those who will have more information that will be in the information and will not be under control. And that will be guaranteed by this law. For this reason, all further responsibility for this coalition’s banking system and its acceptance and, when further recapitalisation occurs, please write this recapitalisation on the basis of the taxpayer’s money. Things must also be understood and not only copied and followed by instructions from the Bank of Slovenia and this government and this Ministry of Finance, because the risks here are too great.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u282	In doing so, they have exhausted their explanations of vote and we can move on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 6th meeting of the National Assembly with the desire to make it as sick as possible at future meetings and, of course, I wish everyone a happy Easter holiday.
