ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenko by 2 p.m., mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Claudius Markež, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Anže Logar, Mr. Joseph Horvat between 10 a.m. and 14 p.m., mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Jože Tanko. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to three, four. AND 5. It's a day's work. Following the agreement of the 19th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will carry out joint introductory presentations on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises, following a shorter procedure, and the amendment of the Law on the Amendments to the Law on the Support Environment for Enterprise, following a reduced procedure. The draft laws were tabled by a group of four Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer. I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposaler, to further explain the draft laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Good morning, some good morning, but still a good day! Today we will consider a very important law, which in fact represents a small step for Slovenian tourism, particularly further; given that we have gone back more in the past with this decision. It is also important, because today, when we talk about the very field of tourism, we need to be aware, here I would like to stress in particular that there is only one trifle, but I hope that there is a bright start; especially because in this way we will be able to make a number of things easier, especially in terms of visibility in the first place of the country itself and also in the part of the area where tourism is actually the most marketed, expected and created. Why such a decision, why did the Law come about, for under all normal conditions we would expect such an action from the government itself? And at the same time, why right now and not why ever before? It is necessary to know that such a decision has already prepared a decision in the previous term to return the national Slovenian tourism organisation for a simple reason. The decision taken in 2012 – to merge the WTO into SPIRIT with the remaining two areas, namely JAPTI, is true entrepreneurship, foreign investment; and at the same time the TIA, according to the Public Agency for Technological Development, has been made at least two steps. One step was certainly austerity, for there was a period of saving in all areas. The second reason is because the incredible synergies were expected if all three areas were to be combined; and based on the combined content, there would be greater results. The fact is, in all this time from 2012 until now, we can only find out the following. Apart from the fact that nominally less has been spent on tourism, to promote tourism; some of the effects on the other hand with this merger have not really been. However, we have had the result that the Slovenian Tourism Organisation actually drowned in SPIRIT itself. In fact, we are one of the few countries that no longer had a national tourism organisation, which would in fact have one of the main tasks of all other areas, as are usually national tourism organisations, and this is the promotion of Slovenian tourism. Some had objected to this decision at the time, but the profession was not heard, and that was why it took place. I believe and hope that today we are actually correcting only this act with this disunity itself. It must be said that this is too little to do for tourism, but it can be a good start. Here, the ministry will have a lot of tasks, or ministry, with all the other steps that are still necessary and necessary – and I believe that they will also be fulfilled – can ensure the conditions necessary to give us the right to live; and above all, that we get the benefits from what we have from our natural heritage in the field of Slovenian tourism. Let me say that the decision to take this step in the association is, above all, to save time. Why the time? You know that the government was only formed in September and it was practically difficult to expect that the Slovenian government would be immediately the next day, given that this organisation is important mainly because it remains important that the Slovenian Tourism Organisation be operational in the beginning of the new year. I believe we have saved some time with this step. In particular, it is time for the Minister to be able, with other decisions and other policies that he will set out in this area; for it is also true that the Minister also provides them, so that we have not intervened in any way within the law itself, and in this way begins to create conditions. Three things are urgently needed to happen in the same law, so we have considered and proposed certain solutions within this law. One is certainly a tourist tax, which has also been extensively discussed on the committee itself. The decision has fallen to the effect that the tourist tax will not be rectified within this law. However, in mind also the Ministry and Members, when we are always afraid and trying to turn any change in the tourist tax into a new tax. Indeed, it is not a new tax; it is an existing tax, which, in fact, is always going back to tourism by law, which means that these are strictly the means of purpose for the same area that we are dealing with today. It should be noted that this is a minimal increase, especially since the tourist tax was last changed in 2003. Last year's correction was so minor that by means of these additional funds, which would have been received and would have been devoted to the field of tourism, it would have been possible to resolve a number of complex and resource-efficient solutions precisely by these means. Well, if not today; probably this year, in the future with the decision of the ministry. It is important to say that, if we are already establishing a separate Slovenian Tourism Organisation, it is also necessary to provide the basic means by which it will operate. It is too small to say that we need the WTO, and then we don't give them enough money on the other side. In his own explanation and in the debate on the Committee, the Minister said that one of the major steps that will be taken this year for the task in the WTO is to visit Expo, which means that we only need €2 million for this part. However, we have already set up substantially lower funds in the balance sheet and in some ways have not allowed the Ministry and the Ministry of MGRT to provide these funds in this way. In this way, he will have to fight for additional funds in such a way or other way, since these funds are now a little over 5 million too small for the WTO to start making other commitments. The second thing that seems important to me is that we also have regional destination organisations within this law. As we know, these were created at the time of the previous financial perspective when some funds were provided for the operation of these so-called RDOs. Since the financing of these RDOs is over and these RDOs have had certain effects, it is in some ways pointless to simply sink and stop them. That is why I expect this part to be eliminated with the amendment, because the Minister's words are that he will in some way try to ensure the future functioning of these RDOs; I hope that we will be able to hold him to his word and that in this way we will maintain this activity, which has also produced results in certain areas. In this way, we will overcome a variety of mayoral logic that only works up to one border, especially because RDOs are generally organised in the area of a large number of municipalities. And you know that every mayor looks to his limit, and only within those boundaries does he regulate, and he doesn't really care about everything else anymore. You know that the effects, especially in the field, simply cannot be confused with a line that applies only to Ljubljana, Save or Drava. What is important to us is that today, with a decision, I hope that even with a fruitful debate, we will finally get the WTO itself, which will finally bring us back tourism. Let me put it this way. Because it is a sector that is one of the five industries in this country that brings serious funds under GDP – 12%, that it is an area where more than 45 000 people are employed, and because it is also an area where huge private capital is invested with a single objective, for the first time, to produce new employment and to get resources, and also to offer our natural wealth that we have, I hope that this moment, if we do not reach for bigger, more courageous legs in the field of tourism; in fact, all that we are creating today, is somehow gifted and made by accident. Unfortunately, we can still see that in the area of tourism, even in the past, there is a lack of listening and some way of networking. When we talk about tourism, we only want to talk about tourism; we do not understand that tourism can be in all areas: economic, sports, cultural, and various areas. Until we exceed this framework of thinking, we will not offer the opportunity to develop tourism itself. There's more to the debate, and I believe it will be fruitful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u3	The draft laws were considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the parent of the labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and everyone else in the hall! Let me first say that I consider it a great honor to be able to talk about these three laws, which are very important for this industry as a former tourism worker. Let me add, in addition, that tourism is, in my opinion, a difficult 21st century industry and that this is worth remembering and therefore working in this direction. As regards the report of the Committee on the Economy, which is held at its 4th session. 2. 2015 addressed all three legislative proposals – a law on promoting the development of tourism, the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises and the law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship – I can say the following. As regards the law on the promotion of the development of tourism, the Legislative and Legal Service considered that a relatively short period of time was intended for making changes. The legislative and legal service stressed the need for better explanation and sub-explanation with more specific data and analysis. The service also made specific comments on an individual article of the law and put it into consideration. The Committee was provided with the material of the Association of Tourism Guides, the opinion and amendments of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic Council. The amendments of the SDS Group and the Government were also tabled in accordance with Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me say that representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology, representatives of the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service were present at this meeting. All representatives said that it was important that tourism was one of the main and more important activities. At the same time, the importance of systematic and increased investment in tourism has been highlighted and is important for the promotion of the economy and culture. It was also welcomed that some of the solutions proposed had been agreed in order to improve the system-wide correction of the area. As far as the Legal and Legislative Service is concerned, the comments made in the written opinion on the scope of the argument and the related need for a better explanation and sub-explanation with more specific data and analysis were made. They also drew attention to certain specific comments on each article of the draft law. Representatives of the Council of State presented their opinion, where they in principle supported the proposal of the law. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia also expressed support for the proposal for a law. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia expressed support for the proposal and pointed out the need for a systematic correction of the tourism strategy 2012-2016. In the debate that followed, the members of the Committee expressed their support in principle for the proposed law and amendments proposed by the Government and highlighted the following: the issue of non-exploitation of potential and lack of financial resources, the need for better exploitation of natural property and transit through Slovenia, the need for better integration of the tourism economy, the need for better tourism offers, greater activities, stories and better staff; the lack of foreign investment in tourism and, of course, the need for better transport strategy and the link with neighbouring countries, particularly airports. In the discussion, the speaker highlighted the need for a thorough regulation of the staff involved in tourism and the need to find new markets and to define more clearly the development functions of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments from the Government to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 was then irrelevant, unfortunately. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. As regards the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises, it was also found on the Committee at the same meeting, in view of the opinion transmitted by the Legal and Legislative Service, which it examined in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, that this law should not be adopted before the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Tourism. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts and Tourism. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. In addition to the explanation of the draft law, the proposer submitted at the same meeting, when considering the substantively related proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism. In this he stated that the proposal for a law follows an effort to transfer the implementation of the tourism tasks now carried out by SPIRIT to the newly established Slovenian Tourism Organisation public agency. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the individual articles of the bill. No amendments were tabled to the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Since the Committee on the Economy has not adopted any amendments to the draft law as its parent body, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. And let me finish the last one. The proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on a Entrepreneurship Support Environment, which was also discussed at the 4th session of the Committee on the Economy, gave its opinion, namely that the need to harmonise the proposed law with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism is necessary at the same time. They were forwarded to the Committee: the opinion of the Government and the amendments of the Government and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Government on Articles 1, 4 and 6 and on the new Article 7 of the bill. The meeting was attended by all representatives of the Community and the Legal and Legislative Service, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Council of State and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, at the same meeting, gave an additional explanation for the bill's proposal for amendments and additions to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further explained, in the light of the comments of the service, that these two comments, which were tabled to the amendments of the Government, were duly taken into account. In the light of the Government's amendment to Article 6, it was pointed out that the first paragraph repeats what is already set out in Article 4 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. As regards the second paragraph of the same article, which was formulated as an exception to Article 49 of the Law on Public Agencies, she pointed out that it was not a situation under that law. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the individual articles of the proposal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Government's amendments, the Committee understood and adopted the new Article 7 of the Law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amended proposal is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u6	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member – the proposaler of the Troika of Laws! You have before you the proposal of three laws to amend the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism, the Law on the Support Environment for Entrepreneurship and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises. The novelties of all these three laws create a legal basis for defining and transferring the tourism tasks now managed by SPIRIT to a newly established public agency responsible for the marketing and promotion of tourism. In order to define and transfer the tourism tasks now carried out by the public agency SPIRIT Slovenia to the newly established public agency responsible for the marketing and promotion of tourism, our government or ministry, which supported this proposal by the proposer, is also taking part. Why? Because tourism is one of the five industries in which we intend to build the development of the Slovenian economy; because tourism today represents 13% of gross social product, it employs 45 000 people and creates a 2 billion euro inflow from foreign tourism. From this title, the state budget also has 250 million VAT collected each year because foreign tourists spend in Slovenia. It is fortunate that we have recognized the importance of tourism before time, but it is unfortunate that we have not followed this recognition by action. After a few years in this Parliament, the Strategy for the Development of Slovenian Tourism, which envisioned and still foresees an increase in foreign tourism flows from 2 to 3 billion euros on purely real grounds, things started to go in a negative direction. We halved the funds for promotion, followed by other reasons. Instead of 3 billion or at least a quarter of what we should have achieved this year, we are still in the same place, more or less we are holding onto these 2 billion. Here is one, not the only, but an important reason that we have abolished the Slovenian Tourism Organisation in this interim period, drowned it in SPIRIT, so to speak, and in some ways we have not achieved any of the intended synergies that were provided at the time in carrying out this act. In short, €3 billion inflows from foreign tourism also means an additional 10,000 people, but the potential for growth and development of Slovenian tourism is mainly in the foreign market. That is why we are obliged to do more to promote our country, which will benefit not only tourism but one of these five important industries for our country, but also all the other economies. What all countries in the world are finally doing, and if you want to in Europe, from 28 members currently have their own tourism organisation 26. I believe that at the end of today's 27th day, we will be a country that will re-establish its independent Slovenian tourism organisation. Of course, it must be said that the establishment of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation alone is not enough. If we want to launch and exploit all the potentials of Slovenian tourism, we will have to take several steps to continue. The one that is not related to this, but I will mention it all the same, is the internationalisation of Slovenian tourism, which we must carry out in two areas. Internationalisation in terms of more guests. We are today at 63% of foreign guests; we make a difference in traffic on the domestic market. As I said before, growth and development are possible in foreign markets. We have immeasurable potential in our immediate vicinity and this all relates back to the WTO. The second step of internationalisation also means internationalisation, however difficult this may sound, in the ownership sense. Indeed, there is no danger that we will reach not only foreign owners in the field of tourism, with which we will get even more in contact with the foreign market, new knowledge, technologies that will try to raise our tourism level to a higher level. The transition itself or the establishment of a new Slovenian Tourism Organisation must be said that this is the first step in waiting for us to see the things that my predecessors have mentioned. First of all, we need to stabilise the revenues of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, which will be based not only on the budget, but on the inclusion of this issue. One of the important things we need to consider thoroughly is the tourist tax already mentioned. It is also about the participation of tourism companies. In short, we need to get to a system that will work and that will, in some long-term period, if I transfer things from today's relationship, allow, to some extent, 20 million a year, the state – and within it – to present tourism to the maximum extent. The Slovenian tourism organisation will take care of two issues, development in the field of Slovenian tourism and – in particular – promotion in foreign markets. On the inside, we will have to tackle the problem of the above-mentioned regional destination organisations and establish a system that is now operating at local level. We have relatively good more or less throughout the country-wide distributed local tourism organisations. We have some regional destination organisations that have taken advantage of their opportunity through funding and European funds. We've got more where these things didn't happen. We also have this SPIRIT conglomerate, which also includes the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. I believe that this new law will establish a pyramid that will work. The first two – a local tourist and regional destination organisation on the domestic market and a Slovenian tourist organisation mainly abroad. I believe that when we come to the establishment and through the adoption of all three laws, the first step towards tourism is to take an important step forward, to get closer to these 3 billion foreign tourism traffic and to justify our role as an important industry within five in the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u8	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! We are considering a package of laws whose proposed solutions are the definition and transfer of the tourism tasks now being carried out by the SPIRIT public agency to the newly established public agency responsible for the marketing and promotion of WTO tourism and related urgent changes. Social Democrats will therefore give a common position on all proposed laws. We support the proposed solutions in our parliamentary group as we were detained and had concerns when adopting amendments to the legislation that meant the inclusion of the WTO in the SPIRIT agency. These proved to be justified, since despite the expected effects, the desired results have not been achieved. As the proponents state, it soon became apparent that the changes were adopted and implemented without serious analysis, causing significant damage, particularly in terms of the visibility of Slovenia as a tourist destination. One agency brought together too diverse content and no expected synergies. Tourism contributes to the Slovenian economy close to 13% of Slovenian GDP, generates about 45 000 jobs and contributes 250 million euros a year to the state budget. Tourism is an economic sector, but it is multidisciplinary and involves practically all sectors of our country. Therefore, it is so important that this is done in an integrated manner by an independent body, one of the most important tasks of which will be the integration and coordination of all stakeholders. In order to strengthen the contribution of tourism to economic growth, a quality move and targeted action is needed, complemented by the necessary resources. A new systemic source of funding is needed, as the tourism sector must not depend solely on budgetary financing, which is under constant pressure from the austerity policy. The functioning of the independent public agency for the planning and implementation of the marketing and promotion policy of Slovenia's comprehensive tourism offer on domestic and foreign markets will, according to the applicants, contribute to the effective implementation of the marketing and promotion of Slovenian tourism and the creation of effective instruments to support these activities. We attach social democrats to this. Slovenia is a wanted tourist destination that attracts guests with its varied nature, with the richness of its historical, cultural and culinary heritage; many with the highest level of service and with unique opportunities for experiences. Tourism is an activity that not only ensures the achievement of economic objectives but also enables the placement of domestic food products, also enables the maintenance of a balanced population and employment and is an integral part of the promotion of our country. From this point of view, it is also important to develop agriculture, not only as an economic sector, but also as an activity that also co-creates the conditions for tourism, which can provide tourists with quality local and typical food. Taking into account the experience of the European Union, therefore, the awareness of advanced, technologically developed societies is returning to nature. Ecological production has also spread to organic agriculture, one of the most dynamic sectors of the European Union. This opened the market niche for farms in the Slovenian space, as Slovenia has an excellent opportunity with its natural resources to make good use of positive directions. We have written in the Tourism Strategy that tourism in Slovenia will be based on sustainable development and, as a very successful economic sector, will make a key contribution to the social well-being and reputation of our country in the world. A well-preserved nature and nature are key competitive advantages of Slovenia, from which comes the top story of Slovenia and the basic area of the tourist offer of Slovenia, which strengthens the brand of Slovenia and Slovenian tourism I feel Slovenia. Social Democrats are convinced that economic development is primarily linked to people and their active participation in the creation of prosperity. Successful economies are, in our view, capable of involving as many people as possible in their processes and at the same time employing all their creative potentials. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the proposals of all three new bills. Also because the proposed solution follows the commitments of the Coalition Treaty, where we have committed ourselves to the exclusion of the WTO from the SPIRIT public agency and have identified the WTO as a central national tourist promotion institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u9	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I salute the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Every three, every three isn't bad. The trio of these laws at the very beginning is not a bad proposal; it saves someone, I must say, a mastic, for some important area – we are lonely back in the WTO because there was no synergy because there was too much noise. This WTO accession to SPIRIT points to some kind of reckless saving and tightening of the belt. Where it tightens, where it does not tighten, the WTO drowned in SPIRIT, the personnel somehow halved. The predecessors and the transition ahead of me have already outlined a history, and they have downed some statistics that differ slightly by some percentage up and down; so perhaps I will have a little more substantive freedom. And although I represent the position of the United Left coalition, which supports the package of these laws, just like my colleague Ferlug, I myself have been working in tourism for several years, or volunteering. Tourism is true, we can say, the heavy industry of the 21st century, but if you're working in tourism, you know that's actually working. And here we come to the first problem – the situation of tourism workers. Tourism workers are, comparatively speaking, poorly paid, working long workers, overtime, in the White Landscape they would say that they are working a saint and a Friday; and this must be realized. The Minister himself was also relatively critical of the situation. I've already talked to the board about this. Our tourism is fragmented. In certain regions, certain great actors have taken up space instead of connecting, instead of networking, they have somehow uprooted smaller actors. You could talk long and wide about the multiplier effects of tourism, you could talk about what tourism is in the broader sense, here I have on the table the book Food and the City. Not only self-sustainment on farms, but also some urban self-sustainment or added value. The Ambassador of the Alliance spoke about the RDO, which was a story that was somewhat unfortunate; like the environmental problem, which is also an integral part of tourism, does not end at the municipal border, such as the watercourses do not end at the municipal border, nor does tourism end at the municipal border. And well, I'm pleased with the territorial link that the minister mentioned. In short, LTO, RDO, WTO. The WTO is concerned about the promotion abroad, but if we are talking about two key tasks that the WTO will have, it seems important to point out that the development of tourism is in short, some of the knowledge that we are missing is being capillaryly penetrated back into the LTO. Although some local tourist organizations have these skills, some do not. It seems to me that the transfer of these hidden knowledge between these locations would also be necessary, which is an important factor. This, of course, will not be possible without additional human resources support from the WTO, this will not be possible without some higher resources. I kind of live between three countries and I know people working on the promotion of tourism in Croatia and Austria; I know a lady who even designed this promotion in Croatia. On the boards, we have spoken many times — there is no hot water detection. We need to tighten the belt if you want, or stretch it, as the United Left stands for, to find these 30, 40 million for the promotion that we need, if we want to take tourism seriously and if we want to overcome this petty thing; and even tourism think as I very often say, as some cross-sectoral field stitching – again this is my favorite lacanic expression. Look at one nice example, I read yesterday in the central Slovenian newspaper about Expo, which will be in Milan, literally in our yard, for half a year, it will have to be filled with content, and I read that so far it has shown interest to about 15 Slovenian companies. I will repeat again – 15 Slovenian companies to introduce themselves in Milan. There's something whispering here, I'm sorry, the minister's back, I'd be worried if there were only 150 companies there. Of course, tourism will have to be linked to a regional destination, as all tourism-wise countries do, and to go beyond what I call "Narcisms" of small differences. And in this connection, remember that in addition to the nearby markets, the slightly distant markets, especially the rich Asian market, are also interesting, where in fact Slovenia is too small because we have heard many times from interviews with ambassadors. With this internationalisation of Slovenian tourism, we also need to think about interstate, if you want, regional integration and the design of packages that will be attractive to an interesting, rapidly growing Asian market, where we will then be able to reach more multipliers in tourism. If I turn a little further to the so-called tourist tax, we all cut our ears. In a tourist cab, it's important where that tax goes back. It is a tax on purpose that goes back to tourism, but here is the question of how it goes back to tourism – in some petty way or in some thoughtful way. Here we quickly come to these infrastructure issues, which are very similar to those in the narrower area, with infrastructure – whether each congregation will have three circular intersections or think a little bit more about it. On the second committee, I explained how a friend of mine who deals with cycling told me how the Drava cycling network is planned; however, one municipality has little on one side of the Drava river, the other on the other side, the third one back here, etc., which suggests some very "pretty", unfortunately, under the terms "nice" cases of non-cooperation. When we welcomed the government, I strongly pointed out – that I will not provoke the SMC – that societies will also have to think about the importance of future development at the level of design and designations of ministries. Somehow I wasn't listening at the time. If tourism is one, I would say, of the three most important industries, it is unacceptable to me that it is not in the understanding of your ministry, Mr. Restoršek. The advantage of Slovenian tourism is our diversity and also our accessibility. Colleagues from Koroška are missing, and I can't say again about the third and fourth axles, which are very important. Oh, there you are, buddy, sorry. It is also important that we go to tourism on the outskirts of some tourism, which I call the tourism of the concrete mafia. We have a bed relatively enough, these beds, as the minister has said many times, are poorly occupied. This is a major problem of Slovenian tourism. We have 38% employment if I have the right information to work on somehow. The challenges are more than enough, strategies are to change them, complement them and even shorten them, to put them in a time book. This troika of laws is a slight shift in the form of a WTO self-sustainment, which must primarily be strengthened humanely at both levels and take some new forms of communication with the local and regional levels. We will support this package of laws and I hope that this multiplier of tourism will take over when the United Left takes over, at least 17%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, welcome! We are people tourism – a slogan that we are already talking about in all events related to the promotion of tourism in Slovenia. Of course, we cannot deny this, because the area of tourism is an inseparable link between natural heritage, hospitality and all the economic sectors that are developing in Slovenia. In fact, tourism is a mirror of the development of each country, which means one of the key indicators of economic development. The three laws before us today prove that tourism cannot and must not be left to itself. It needs a lot of support from the country, which has to provide financial and human resources conditions for its development. Slovenia has, unfortunately, also declined in the field of tourism in recent years. And it seems that we do not know how to cash our tourist pearls and knowledge in order to be more recognizable to foreign tourists and more attractive to domestic guests. The multi-annual attempts of the strategy in this area have so far not produced brilliant results, unfortunately. We are therefore convinced in Nova Slovenija that the activity of marketing and promotion of tourism offers is the first step towards strengthening a better tourist offer in Slovenia. Therefore, of course, a good organisation and better-known standards and more efficient tourism activities are essential. Re-establishing the Slovenian Tourism Organization as a strong national promotion organisation – yes or no – our answer is yes. If "yes" means more emphasis on the promotion of Slovenia and if "yes" means a self-organization that will truly represent the brain of Slovenian tourism, as the Minister of Economy has said. Most important at this point is that we are aware that the area of tourism in some way is our saving plant in the current economic situation and that it is through tourism that we can create more. It is not negligible that in the last three years the tourism economy has been in unenviable numbers, that they wanted to be substantiated, somewhere below 40%, and that even the number of arrivals of tourists is increasing and the number of nights is decreasing. Inflows from foreign tourism still amount to 2 billion, although we had planned 3 billion years ago. This is why the recognition of Slovenia as a tourist destination is crucial; especially for foreign tourism, which is one of the key factors of the greater contribution to the state budget. Unfortunately, this year's budget rebalancing for the promotion of Slovenian tourism has not been the most encouraging, as it provides just over €6 million for this purpose; the findings of those who get to know tourism well say that at least €20 million should be provided for the effective promotion of tourism and tourism activities. Sometimes one wonders why it is difficult to provide these additional 15 million euros for tourism, which could have many multiplier effects and contribute to the state budget, while for other things it is much easier to provide 15 million euros, even though it does not have such effects as tourism. And it is up to all of us who are sitting in this house to ask ourselves, in adopting the budget, exactly such things – whether we are investing our money in the right things, or whether we are dedicating our money to the needs that can create more jobs in the long term, and thus more flows into the state budget. Therefore, the financial and human resources reinforcement of this new, emerging agencies is once again an important issue. Without the added value of the new independent Slovenian Tourism Organisation and without the clearly established strategy for the development of tourism, there will certainly be no progress. Christian Democrats are convinced that just the formal, legal re-establishment of a stand-alone public agency of the WTO in itself does not constitute better conditions and consequently better results in the field of the tourism economy. But it can be the beginning that all of this is going to happen. For everything we say in New Slovenia, we will support the new proposals of all three laws. However, we expect the government to take the following steps to ensure that Slovenian tourism works better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u13	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u14	In the Alliance, we are pleased that the law actually enjoys much support in the National Assembly and shows that it will be adopted. However, this is one fine opportunity to talk about tourism, especially in the part where the minister indicated what else needs to be done. I agree with all the predecessors who say that the establishment of the WTO as such is, of course, absolutely insufficient. With us, we have divided this into at least three key objectives, three key issues that will still need to be resolved in the Slovenian space. The Minister made it very clear that Slovenia has a strategy for Slovenian tourism, but let us not forget that this strategy applies until 2016. And if we really wanted to implement this strategy, if we went to look at it very carefully, we would see that more than half of the things within this strategy have not been realized at all. The second thing that seems very important to me is that within this strategy there is also a very clear need to amend the action programme – until when, where, in what way. This also means certain obligations, obligations in terms of how much resources we will spend by the State – at least from the point of view of promotion and internationalisation itself, so that we will not talk again at every budget and rebalancing, at least from the point of view of what is right and what is wrong. And even with a decision by Parliament, with some strategic document they have made it very clear to individuals to make clear what areas are where we will give priority and also a primary and important role. But not that we should generalise everything and make a budget for everyone; but for no one. Another important thing is that whenever we work on a strategy, we have a lot of ideas, a lot of professional support, a lot of suggestions. Every time strategies are made, I feel that everything is always accepted, which is only possible if it does not deviate from some unprofessional views. Then this strategy is simply cleaned up and mentioned only when it is absolutely necessary to say that you have a strategic document. In fact, content is never important anymore. As the current minister actively participated in the last strategy, which is valid and valid until 2016, as well as in the role of the President of the Chamber, I think, for hospitality or tourism, something like this, at the Chamber of Commerce – he knows this strategy very well, and he knows what really needs to be changed. The second thing that seems important to me is that we are always talking about the natural, beautiful goodness offered by Slovenia. There is a great deal of talk about foreign tourism, which we have heard several times today, and how important it is to increase the number from 2 billion to 3 billion. In fact, we are forgetting another segment, which is that if we want to place tourism on the world map of tourism, Slovenia is to say, at that moment, we must first make sure that only one decisive step can really contribute to getting to this map. This is that we are aware that we must have at least two components that are essential for tourism to succeed. These are: international links to air transport and regulated rail transport. It doesn't work for us. It doesn't work for us. Although we have an airport, this airport does not help us if a tourist has to travel through not knowing which airports and intermediate local transports to reach this beautiful Slovenia. The second airport does not really work – and this is the biggest problem. Then, if he comes by plane to the airport, he can't get by rail to the center of the city, where he then has all the possibilities of transport across Slovenia, at all ends, so gladly called "our beautiful tourist destinations". MGRT, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Infrastructure are three key ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which must make the most of their contribution in order to make a difference in this area. Finally, the third issue is, once again, compatible and competent decisions taken by the State when it speaks and includes tourism in this country. On the one hand, we hear a lot of nice words today about tourism; on the other hand, when we talk about SDH and DUTB, we are not aware, but now I am banally saying that you have two different organisations for the same hotel, each of your strategies, what to do with it. I give an example – DUTB is a partial owner of one hotel and partial owner, or the country with which SDH operates. If one manages and wishes to make a profit, the other share of the sale and perhaps even makes SDH no longer affect the management of this one hotel. On purpose, I do not mention the name, and on purpose, I am not talking about a specific hotel destination. But there's something about hotels like this. Let’s just see how hotels sold after the collapse of the company — from the Union Hotel and beyond — are sold to another chain that does not actually have the basis for managing tourism itself. In a similar way, the hotels were hit by Istrabenz, who in the past had no vision at all for these same hotels. Where do these hotels end today? We all know. And this is the decision that is urgently needed to talk about, and that is why we need a serious strategy. And if you look at the strategy that goes into effect until 2016, it does not talk about these issues; it only talks about how to grow GDP, how to increase foreign tourism, how to invest further in tourism infrastructure. Talk about how to provide jobs, in short how fairy tales we will all be fine and right in this Slovenian tourism and how we will all want some results. But if you take a real look, you will see that only in the last year and a half is a lot of tourist destinations before they shut down and shut down. It is therefore important that, immediately after the adoption of this law, MGRT as a key institution and the WTO take the following steps. This is the preparation of a new strategy that will take at least one year to seriously deal with all stakeholders and to bring them to the National Assembly. And not until the end of 2016, but at the beginning of 2016, because it is always important to note that we always forget the implementation of certain solutions, which we always accept with the same strategic documents, and then simply do not come true because everything is going too slowly. Let me finally say – what matters is that if we don't raise the tourist tax, I will say very plastic and simple, because the only way to understand is not with some artificial language, where half of the Slovenians don't even know what it is. If the hairdresser decides to cut and if a Slovenian citizen comes to him, it is good and wonderful; but then the money circulates within the Slovenian space. But when a stranger comes to this same hairdresser, it's an added value, but not just for the hairdresser, but for a substantial amount. And with this plastic, if I put it that way, you have to think in advance. The idea of this, Slovenia are people, must turn into something else – Slovenia is welcome and friendly to tourism. How and in what way – it depends only on us and the results. That is why I expect great effects in the coming months, and above all move in concrete steps, not only about what I could do, but what we would do, where and when we would want these results. We'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u15	The word is given by the SMC Group, in its name mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we have before us the so-called Troika of Laws, which provides for the definition of tourism from the public agency SPIRIT Slovenia. The tasks are therefore transferred to the new public agency for the marketing and promotion of tourism or the independent Slovenian Tourism Organisation. I too will present my position under all three laws. We have heard a lot about how tourism is of particular importance to the Slovenian economy; and we agree with that. In 2012, the government adopted proposals for three pieces of legislation allowing for the transformation of institutions to promote competitiveness and development, entrepreneurship, tourism and internationalisation. TIA, JAPTI and the WTO thus merged into SPIRIT. We believe that a step has been taken in order to save money. The subsequent withdrawal of funds for the promotion of tourism has resulted in a final material, human and financial degradation of the WTO. In this case, too, we can learn, as in the case of many companies, what happens when we take money away from promotions at a time of crisis. At the time of the crisis, it comes back to us as a boomerang. We will achieve this by establishing an intolerable state and using a great deal of resources to restore the brand's visibility back. Today we are on a similar path, and we must be aware of that. Above all, it turned out that the expected synergies of the merger were not at all; on the contrary, there have been negative physical and recent financial indicators. It was therefore a matter of merging the various organisations into a platform of one organisational structure. The debate has often raised the question of what we will gain if the WTO is singled out. Can the organizational change itself really mean anything in the substantive and strategic sense of the organization? And we answer with the organization's theory — yes. Because we believe that's the key. It is precisely the organisational structure that many times defines only the functioning of the organisation; and the organisational structure is in fact the one that has to adapt to the content; and not the other way around, what happened in the case of the WTO merger. In the case of the WTO, which is a strong market organisation, which must maintain a high level of flexibility, creativity in thinking and communication, and highly extraverted towards its external and internal stakeholders, the organisational structure is the first important basis for good functioning. It also needs clear responsibility and expertise to manage the organisation, personnel and operations; as well as the strategic orientation of the same organisation and all persons within it with a vision of their own. It is the organisation that determines the relationship and relationship between key stakeholders at different levels of business. If we don't know where we're going and who the captain is, every way through the sea is useless. The government has therefore adopted an opinion on all three novels and supported them, as well as amendments to the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism proposed by the ZaAB Group. In order to eliminate the professional and developmental tasks in the field of tourism as soon as possible from the work of SPIRIT, we will, of course, support all three legislative proposals in the SMC Group, including government proposals for amendments. Indeed, we do not agree with the proposed legal arrangements for regional destination organisations or RDOs and thus with the rise in the value of the tourist tax point. The SMC Group supports all amendments, as it seems to us to be the regulation of independent RDOs and to modify the tourist tax regime at this time premature and non-strategic. While RDOs were created on the basis of three years of funding for the promotion of cohesion funds regions, they had many positive signs. In particular, certain RDOs operated extremely well or operated, such as the RDO of the central Slovenian regions. Shareholders were linked and new active tourist products were created, but the project also had negative effects or views; for example, these RDOs were not tourist destinations and many new brands were created. On the other hand, as we have heard, we already have financial difficulties with the support of the basic national brand. Such a proposal also opens the door to a further increase in the number of RDOs, which is totally contrary to what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed to – so to speak, the reduction of public institutions. Given the limited resources, it is therefore advisable to strengthen the national trade mark first, and this is also the opinion of the tourism economy itself. The systematic provision of resources and the functioning of the RDO would reduce already limited resources for the implementation of tourism activities or in the area of the development of Slovenian tourism. We also point out that the WTO's independence is just the beginning, this is the first step that needs to be followed as soon as possible by organisational and substantive consolidation and, last but not least, the provision of systemic resources. However, we believe that a strong national promotion organisation is key to the quality development of tourism, and we agree with the estimates that knowledge of Slovenian tourism offers abroad is currently poor. We have lost the strategic thread, so we need to highlight new, innovative market paths as soon as possible, but we can only create them within the WTO. The new WTO also shows the following areas in the analysis: the specialisation of the governance structure, the organisation of work processes, more flexible cooperation with all stakeholders, the preparation of a independent long-term vision, easier transformation of additional resources and the establishment of a programme council and more active policies; and, above all, greater responsiveness of organisational units to current events. Establish new agencies in terms of the costs associated with the establishment does not currently entail additional financial burdens for the budget. In the SMC Group, we believe that the WTO, as a single national tourism organisation, will carry out its mission more effectively, such as good planning, quality marketing and promotion of Slovenia's comprehensive tourist offer in domestic and foreign markets. It is important that the strategy of Slovenia and the vision of the development of Slovenia and the functioning and vision of the WTO go hand in hand. We believe that this objective will be better achieved on the WTO's own path and that Slovenian tourism will become one of Slovenia's major economic development sectors in the 21st century. In this way, the WTO will be able to deal more actively with content alone and thus support all stakeholders in the economy. Let the world with us finally "feel" Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u17	Mr Daniel Krivec, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises and the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Support Environment for Entrepreneurship are linked to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism and provide that the implementation of tasks in the field of the planning and implementation of the marketing policy and the promotion of Slovenia's comprehensive tourism offer in domestic and foreign markets currently implemented by SPIRIT is to be transferred to the newly established public agency of the Slovenian Tourist Organisation. As we have been able to understand from the debate on the Home Economics Committee, we are united that there are still many untapped opportunities and potentials for tourism in Slovenia. We all agree that the area of tourism needs to be given more weight, that we need better and more effective promotion of tourism. As an argument for the change of organisation, the proposal states that the number of guests and overnight stays in Slovenia are falling, although the truth is completely different, as official statistics also show. It also adds that tourists who visit Slovenia come to us more by chance. This is highly underestimating to all employees in Slovenian tourism, as official statistics also show. We have a comparison between Europe and the global arrivals of guests; the Blue Chart means Slovenia in recent years until 2014. Another argument is that the number of employees in the time of the independent WTO is 31, and now only 18 is a complete lie, since there are currently 26 employees there; whereas just at the time of the government of Alenka Bratusek, applications for replacement employment for pensions, departures and one death were rejected. The lie is based on the fact that in the first case he counted all employees, departments and joint services. In the second case, only employees in the departments. Also, the claim that the WTO drowned in Sprite and that the funds for promotion were reduced is not true. The merger pursued two fundamental objectives, namely rationalisation and synergies. Rationalisation has succeeded as operating costs have decreased from 4.4 million to 4 million euros per year; Slovenia has visited a record number of foreign tourists over the past two years, which is the primary objective of the WTO. As a major expert, the applicant has silenced the key development problem, namely that tourism in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek was completely out of line with the European Commission's demands despite numerous attempts by the Slovenian tourism economy and the Tourism Directorate in the new financial perspective 2014-2020. In the SDS Group, we believe that the promotion of tourism should start elsewhere; and not in the distribution of SPIRIT. The arguments for a stand-alone agency do not seem sufficient. The arguments include better optimisation of work processes, resistatisation, preparation of a vision for tourism development, better tourism activities and so on. All of these could also be achieved under the auspices of SPIRIT, perhaps even by facilitating the uniform promotion of the economy and tourism and the promotion of Slovenia as a whole. Of course, it all starts and ends with people, as the tourist slogan tourism also says, we are people. Regardless of the facts raised above, in the SDS Group we feel it is good to take a systematic and comprehensive approach to the areas of tourism. We believe that in the near future we will also touch on other problematic areas that limit our development of tourism. However, if the existing coalition believes that the tourism development strategy can be better implemented within and with the help of an independent agency, we will not oppose the establishment of one.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u20	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises and the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment. At the same time, the legislative process has been accompanied by three proposals for laws which I have listed and which are intended to make substantive and organisational changes to the implementing institution in the area of promoting competitiveness, entrepreneurship, innovation, development, investment and tourism. The aim is, of course, to restore pre-regulation in some way, as the current regime has proved not to be effective enough, especially in the role of the promotion of Slovenian tourism. In the opinion of the applicants, the independent tourism organisation will, among other things, focus more on the promotion, implement more effectively the ministry's programme orientations, facilitate international discussions. At the same time, the use of resources will certainly be better reflected in the independent tourism organisation and the responsibility will be clearer. Remember, for the same purposes, my colleagues in the Desus Group have already defined themselves in the previous mandate when they supported the decision to merge the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, the public technology agencies and the Slovenian Tourism Organization into a new, largely so-called SPIRIT Agency. In the Desus Group we supported such an arrangement for several reasons, such as rationalisation, optimisation of work, potential reduction of operating costs, more favourable public financial effects. Of course, we still strongly support such a position as then, and this is that we must follow the mission of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, as this allows the effective and transparent implementation of development policy measures, the continuous development of quality services for users and the excellent promotion of Slovenia. Since then, it has proved in practice that some of the effects in the established theories of these ideas, which we put into law, have not been fully positive. Sometimes it takes time, sometimes simple things come true as they should to the end. This, of course, does not indicate the reckless functioning of the then government, since it must be acknowledged that it is very difficult for individual matters to predict or know in advance their outcome, especially in rapidly changing circumstances. Today, too, in the Desus Group, we still stand firm, insisting on the same foundations – competitiveness and efficiency in the development of tourism. Slovenia must continue its recognition at home and abroad. Although the current situation often seems to be such that the only top athletes represent us best abroad, we need to show that Slovenia has much more to offer than the original local food and innovative products, in addition to being extremely proud of these top athletes, and last but not least of all culturers. A transfer of financial resources as well as personnel will be needed to achieve the objectives set. And if we were to talk about the reduction of costs due to the synergistic effects of the merger at the time of the merger at SPIRIT, we do not need to predict any increase in costs today precisely because of this re-disaggregation and the re-establishment of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. What is most important is the fact that the funds will be provided within the SPIRIT Slovenia financial plan, so there will be no additional costs and consequently no additional concerns. In general, we in the Desus Group are concerned that so far very few financial resources have been allocated to the promotion of Slovenia as a tourist destination. According to marketing and promotion theory, we know that half of the funds have been thrown away for this purpose, but we do not know, of course, which half is this. We all know very well that there is no shortage of potential. We need to focus more on ideas, on plans to promote Slovenia as effectively as possible, and from its natural beauty, which we like to stress, cultural heritage, to the way our people live. The fact is that tourism is one of the industries that will drive our economy, as entrepreneurship and investment can be linked and complemented by the development of tourism. The latter makes it possible to create new jobs and has a markedly positive impact on balanced regional development, which we also like to repeat very much. In the Desus Group, we are confident that a comprehensive tourism strategy will have to be made. We are talking about three priority development areas, including increasing competitiveness, a favourable business environment and effective and innovative marketing. Just knowing that we have potential, but with them we do nothing or very little, of course, is not enough. The tourist offer, let's face it, is worse; currently worse. The fact that most tourists in our country stay very short of time, many times just one day, is also helpful. It will be necessary to further enrich the current offer in a way that will make Slovenia an attractive destination for multi-day or multi-week arrangements. The strategy is also needed because of the fact that we are already mismanaging certain factors, such as over-indebted tourist companies, that is, our hotels, the problems of cable drivers, Kanin, the Maribor Pohorje, just to remind me of the bad airline connections that have already been discussed; last but not least, the Maribor airport is more vegetating than anything else. Let me remind you of still the topic of poor governance of the country as owner of Kobilirna Lipica and, consequently, the question of public or private partnership. All these are the reasons why systemic solutions need to be approached. In the Desus Group, we believe that support for today's package of laws will be only a fraction of what remains to be done in a strategic sector such as tourism. We wish Slovenian tourism organisations inappropriately more success on the new independent path. He has unequivocal support from the Desus Group. Until each law, we will no longer define ourselves; we will only support the amendment to Article 6 of the Law on the Entrepreneurship Support Environment, which we have proposed with the other coalition parties and, of course, we support. Since these are modified solutions that work in a way that is dictated by practice and not only by theory, especially in the light of the greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and openness in the promotion of the country, we will support, once again, the package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u21	We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. I interrupt agenda items 3 and 4 on which we will vote today in the context of the vote. We continue the debate on item 5 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendments of the Desus, SD and SMC. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u22	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I may be discussing a little more in the second sphere, but I fully support the amendments and also the government's proposals regarding legislative changes. With this new content, I think the Ministry of Economy is getting a new wind, a new impetus in its activities. Let us not forget that we heard a few months ago when we were looking for a new minister, that the ministry should, if possible, be shut down or attached somewhere. I think that common sense has prevailed and that this ministry has received a minister who has rightly stopped activities with a sectoral approach to the resolution of individual strategic sectors in Slovenia such as tourism; and I think other strategically important sectors and opportunities such as the wood industry, etc. will follow this. Once again, in SPIRIT, as in previous organisational forms, activities in the field of tourism, then in the area of the supporting environment of entrepreneurship and the promotion of foreign investments, somehow, apples and pears were mixed; in fact, there were no synergies in this area. For these reasons, I also understand this amendment, which we have tabled, in the sense of creating some legal order in this area and allowing for the normal functioning of the new agency, with all the possibilities of supporting tourism and activities in this regard. Of course, I think that this amendment will also in some way allow for activities in other areas covered by SPIRIT. In this context, I see that we are on the right track and that this legislative amendment is the right course for the development of the so-called real sector. Here Dr. Trček will probably correct me, but I think that this new approach will also give the Ministry of Economy a place in the government, which it is also going to do; and that in the future we will also discuss more about the economy, with which we will create new opportunities for the development of Slovenia. I support this amendment, and I fully support all legislative changes in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u23	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Of course, we agree with the proposal of this amendment, and we will also support it in the light of the very warning of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made it very clear that there is no point in duplicating something that is in itself clear. However, we have followed only the principle of preparing this law so that, as was then established, it is also divided in the same way. But that's explained enough. We need to know why this has happened. And that is why I will also take this opportunity because there has also been a debate on the committee in this work. If you remember, the SPIRIT problem itself arose mainly because then Minister Žerjav wanted to have in any way some of his external diplomacy, which he had had after the then organisation of the Government Act until there was a reduction of ministries. And you know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also taken over this economic part of international diplomacy and placed it in its work. And one of the reasons why, practically in five minutes at the time, this merger was formed was, above all, Mr Žerev's wish to ensure this somehow. However, there was one small detail on the Committee on the Economy where this topic was also addressed. At that time, Mr Hribar, Director of Directorate, was also present for a long time in all possible forms – who had misled me in one part of the debate with his discussion when he spoke about Azerbaijan, where he had actually discussed how he had left with the then Minister, Mrs Radiceva, and then warned him how little this internationalisation had been established in the field of Slovenian tourism. However, after this change, this idea has never been able to be carried out because the government has been reconstructed or has been removed from the government. After recklessly and recklessly, I charged her at the committee at that time that she had started this procedure for SPIRIT, and that is not really true. In fact, this was done by Mr Žerjav, and I apologize to her in this place for her statement. I apologize in particular because everything that goes into the record goes into history; and that it will never be thought that it really started the SPIRIT procedure. However, the observations and discussions that my predecessor, my colleague Krivic, had had, should be said as follows, Krivec, I apologize. What is very important is that the SDS was 5 years in government; 4 years in one term and another year in an additional year. You had an enormous amount of time to do a lot of things, and you had even the same people who followed inside this department. These insights into the previous government, I will help you – I was very angry with Alenko Bratušek in one part when I needed a lot of energy to convince her that the process of expulsion from the WTO needs to start. There's one difference between us, and I admit it, and you'll never admit it. If we have done as much damage in one year as it has done in the last five years, where your government has also done so, let yourself be admitted once with the ashes. But there is something, and I, unlike you, am no longer interested in the past. I want to know what's gonna happen next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u25	Is it procedural or registration? Report, okay. First of all, Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! At first, I just want to explain the amendment of the coalition. The amendment of the coalition partners deletes the text of Article 6(1) and (2) of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Support Environment for Entrepreneurship; paragraph 1 of Article 6 is repeated because it is already laid down in Article 4 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism. However, the second paragraph of the same Article is designed as an exception to Article 49 of the Law on Public Agencies, but it is not the situation referred to in Article 49 of that Act, and the provision in question introduces ambiguity. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment in the coalition, which I support. It is important that we also support the entire package of legislation that excludes the Slovenian Tourist Agency from SPIRIT. Why? As already mentioned in previous discussions, tourism has the potential for an additional tens of thousands of jobs within 4 years, because experts estimate that we can get an additional billion euros in revenue from foreign tourism per year, which means 50% more than now. I also agree with the fact that the exclusion of the WTO from SPIRIT is not the only mechanism for improving the situation of tourism; it is one of the key and the first. Since the Minister comes from tourism, and the Secretary of State, who is present here, I believe that there will be a great deal of knowledge here, he has his own experience. I believe this is the first step that will do much more for our tourism. Tourism is a sector that is highly multicultural, not least representing 13% of GDP, employs 45 000 people. We create the most in relation to abroad, creating around €2 billion at the annual level. As already mentioned, there is still great potential here. In addition to this need for the independence of the national tourism organisation, which we are discussing today, the problem of poor air accessibility for Slovenia must be addressed, as already mentioned by Mr Jani Möderndorfer. It will also be necessary to continue to arrange travel throughout Slovenia, when tourists land in Brnik, it will also be better to arrange a visa tourist regime and arrange for the issuance of tourist visas for foreign tourists. It will also be necessary to consider how to quickly and efficiently fill accommodation facilities with guests who like to spend their money. In short, we will not run out of challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u27	I'm asking you to sign up for the next round. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. To talk about these articles of the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship is only one thing, in fact we only look at finesse. And I would also like to look a little bit at the content, in connection with all these three laws, which say that, according to some vision, we need to start working step by step in this direction in order to make tourism the right one. There has been a lot of talk about this, but I believe that every legal basis that we have laid here must be a start. The beginning is that the WTO is independent, and from here on out build its own. We have already found that out with France and Daniel when we discussed this tourism. Most of us see in this context some basis that can be used to build a healthy foundation. Why am I talking about a healthy foundation? As I have seen so far, tourism has been a sector that has been neglected. Regardless of who was in the government, everyone forgot that this industry is one of the most potentially powerful industries. And not only is that important is that next step, this is this multiplier effect, which then helps other, secondary and tertiary activities to develop. Why am I saying this? Daniel comes from Bovské, where he faces those unfortunate problems with Kanin, where it is unclear to some normal man who comes from entrepreneurship that it is possible to let one such pearl go to waste. Despite the fact that the relationship with the Italian Sello Neveo had already been established and that it had already been seen that the economy had begun to live and began to develop. The second thing is, which is totally incomprehensible to me, is the fact that Lipica is a great pearl that promotes itself and does everything. Then it's lost because you don't know who's running it, how it's managed and why. It is sad and in fact we all forget that tourism is much more than that. In fact, our athletes are putting Slovenia at some point in their work and success, putting it in a geographical position. Then get lost because we don't know how not to market, not say, not take advantage of these opportunities. Amazing opportunities are also in all the other segments that we forget, in culture, that we do not talk about religious tourism, nobody talks about it, but we do have Brezje, which is extraordinary, and Strujan, we have so many monasteries. We have immeasurable opportunities that we don't know how to exploit or we don't want to take advantage of. What's the strategy, what's the strategy? This is a major issue and a major task for the newly emerging WTO, which must make this strategy. This strategy must be extremely precise and must have solutions. Jani already mentioned that we also need to focus on how to bring these guests to us. There is not enough Airport Brnik or Maribor, which is totally unused, not to mention all the nearby airports that are around us – Zagreb, Celovec, Gradec, Trieste and Venice. All of these are potentials we don't know how to exploit. Sadly, we cannot learn from these stories. The 500km circle around Slovenia is the optimal circle from which we receive guests. Here is a large potential pool from which we could normally market and get customers. In fact, this is very close because infrastructure and road transport are okay. The railroad is what it is, given that we've been hurt by our stomachs, but I think it's also in this area to make things right. In these segments we have the opportunity to develop and also to increase the number of employees, to gain additional value and that the country will also have some of these. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u29	Before I give the floor to Mr Daniel Krivec, I note the fact that the amendment that has been tabled allows for a general debate. As this has become part of the tradition of this House, we will not intervene on these points. Now Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself will support this amendment because it is the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, which eliminates ambiguity in this Article. It is clear that this amendment needs to be supported, so there is no big dilemma about it; I have seen that other colleagues have no problem in this regard. But I can see that most of the talk is about content. The content will only come to order substantially later. Obviously we have a problem in Slovenia that something doesn't work at any time, but the form needs to be changed. If we have a ministry's malfunction, let's get two ministries out or the other way around. But we never ask ourselves why something doesn't work. All the predecessors spoke about how the WTO needed to give oxygen, to live, to function and to develop, and this would be some added value. But you have to ask yourself what that means. We all know that this means only that we have to provide the means to make it work. Whoever thinks there's anything else to do with this, I think they don't know things. There has been a lot of talk about some substantive reasons, but I am pleased that my predecessor, who previously discussed, has not denied any of my claims about the need for SPIRIT change. It has come down to some principled claim that so far all governments have not supported tourism, and I can also agree to some extent. There was no real obedience, although there were a lot of investments in a period when the financial perspective for 2007-2014 was a source, a European resource for the development of tourism as well. The fact is that my colleague also did not deny that in the next financial perspective there was in fact no hearing that tourism support could be placed in this segment which could benefit European funds. These are facts and it is free to say that if we form the WTO as a single agency, this will in itself mean greater development of tourism. There are many other measures that need to be taken, especially what I have said, which is the slogan of tourism. "Tourism We Are People" applies to all other matters. And if people don't understand why they're sitting in a certain function, there's nothing that'll help us change the form in the National Assembly. Even now they had the opportunity to improve some things, but mostly they were concerned – at least some – with their kindergartens and with who has more authority; or with Slovenian, who has bigger ones. Unfortunately. And this law will certainly not solve this automatically, there will be a lot of other measures and good will in the National Assembly if we want to give tourism the opportunity and the opportunity to develop, as all the predecessors have discussed. The amendment will be supported by us, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u31	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. In the end, I will come to the amendment if tourism is discussed. I see that there are relatively few of us in the Chamber, which makes me sad; I hope that those colleagues who are preparing for the next points also support the development of tourism. Like the timber chain we like to talk about tourism, I agree with the predecessors, including what SDS Commissioner Krivec said. Some kind of marriage in itself, doesn't automatically change anything. I also made it very clear in the submission of the position of the United Left coalition, according to the domestic statement, how much money is needed for some normal promotion. The fact that tourism is not understood by us in particular in the "emonoccentric" context can be one of Kanin's cases, but another is Pohorje as a very important infrastructure element. Let's leave now what she did back – something I call – to the Maribor ski mob. But we prefer to do, I'll say, like a headless chicken with big debates, what was behind it, even though we have a third branch of power, and someone else to deal with it; instead of trying to understand what some of the duties we have. And I'm not referring here to the Pohorje case just winter tourism. I didn't mean to call. I didn't mean to be too long. This is where I read The Guardian, of course the left-wing diary. They're going to build the tallest building on the Danube, 84 meters high. This can also be tourism. We talked to the former mayor and SDS MP after the first earthquakes in Posoča, when you simply did not get permission to build wooden bytes. It's connected to tourism, too. I hope, of course, that we will have a strategy that does not need to be 300 pages thick, but which will involve stakeholders who know something about the industry. We do not necessarily agree on many things, but to start working on this bureaucratic side of tourism, because those people who work in tourism in a narrow sense have been doing this for decades. With regard to the amendment itself, I am a little saddened, but I would not like to get back on the wallpaper a coalition of metals that happens too often to have some amendments-amendments in some coalition where there are so many lawyers. That reminds us a little bit of "grandmother and a bald child." I hope this doesn't happen again. We're gonna back this three up, like we said. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u33	A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! As far as the amendment is concerned, of course we support it. As has been said, it removes some of the ambiguities of the law now in force. I would, however, take this opportunity and on behalf of the Minister, thank the Ministry for your truly creative debate at the previous point; for all the suggestions, ideas, including the concerns or warnings you have raised regarding the creation of a new tourism organisation and also the Slovenian tourism strategy itself. In this place, I assure you, it will not pass the tourist season without any change in this area. Change for the better! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u35	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on explosives and pyrotechnic articles, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Magi. Baby Verbich. I'm adjourning the session in 15 minutes. We'll pick it up at 11:10.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u36	Your Honor, we continue with the adjourned session. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Magi. Baby Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President, and for your apology for the transfer. The report to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosives and pyrotechnic articles – the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at 6th ordinary session 12. 2. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Explosives and pyrotechnic articles submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The amendments were tabled by the SDS MPs and the SMC, Desus and SD MPs, which are 12. 2. In 2015, amendments to the amendments to Articles 2, 6 and 16 of the Law were tabled. The representative of the proposer – the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior presented, in a supplementary explanation, the main solutions to the draft law, which aims to bring the two European directives into the Slovenian legal order. Regarding the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, he said that they were supported by the proposer as they followed the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service and were mostly of a nomotechnic nature. With regard to the amendments of the SDS Group, which extends the prohibition on the sale, possession and use of fireworks to category 1 fireworks, he said that such a provision would be contrary to the Directive. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said in her presentation that the comments of their services with the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were largely taken into account. With regard to the amendments of the SDS Group, she pointed out that if they were to be adopted, certain nomotechnical corrections, such as the renumbering of paragraphs and the correction of references in the law, would be necessary. The opinion of the Commission of the State Regulation was presented by the President of their Commission, who said that the Commission had raised some questions the applicant had asked for clarifications, namely the proposed provision whereby the manufacturer of pyrotechnic articles could produce and use pyrotechnic articles for his own use, without having to carry out the conformity procedure and obtain the CE markings; however, he must obtain the authorisation of the Ministry of Interior and the extension of the powers of the Inspectorate of Internal Affairs. The Commission commended the activities of the applicants in the process of harmonising the bill as it was in line with the professional public and the local communities; it supported the proposal. In the debate on individual members, the members and members of the Committee welcomed the introduction of greater responsibilities of economic operators throughout the supply chain with the aim of protecting public interest. With regard to the extension of the powers and actions of the inspectors, the question of the capacity of the inspectorate and his willingness to carry out the new tasks was raised. Cases of use of pyrotechnic articles showing their danger and threat to humans, animals and the environment have also been highlighted. Therefore, the view was expressed that it was necessary to consider the complete prohibition of fireworks, namely category 1, 2 and 3; whose main effect is pok. The SDS Group has tabled an amendment with the above content. In view of the applicant's explanations that the prohibition on the sale and use of category 1 fireworks, the main effect of which is pok, was contrary to the Directive, it was proposed to consider an appropriate adjustment of the age limit or an increase in the age limit of 14 and 16 years laid down in the applicable law concerning the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles. The representative of the applicant was asked for a clear answer, in which category the firecrackers belong and whether their sale and use are allowed in us. The Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 2, 3, 6, 8, 10, 16, 17, 19, and 22 to 29. The Committee did not accept the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 25 became irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the complementary draft law, which includes the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, Members, the rest of you are present. The proposal before us today would be much more up-to-date, perhaps interesting for someone, if it were to be dealt with just after New Year's holidays, when there were more live recordings, pictures of injuries due to the use of pyrotechnic means, usually broadcast by the media throughout the holiday period. When holidays pass, we usually stop dealing with such problems. The most problematic problem in the field of pyrotechnics is still the fact that the most frequent injuries occur in the use of pyrotechnics that have been banned for some time now, i.e. when used — as we call them — by a firecracker. In spite of the ban, it is still necessary to strengthen control in these areas. And here I mean control of those who sell banned firecrackers under the counter, as well as those who use them despite the ban. It is clear that naked stripping is dangerous and unacceptable for humans, animals and the environment in general. In principle, the United Left does not favour excessively rigorous legislation, but we do believe that in this case, when it comes to the use of pyrotechnic articles that have no other effect than poker, they could be stricter than other countries, even as far as supervision is concerned. Accordingly, we support solutions that, among other things, relate to the additional powers and actions of inspectors of the Inspectorate of Home Affairs, but we believe that more could be done in this area. We'll support the proposal in the United Left. We expect the competent ministry to improve control even in practice, even when it comes to the sale and use of banned firecrackers and the sale of pyrotechnic articles to young people on the black market. We know that this government is committed to continuing savings in all areas, but when it comes to protecting people, animals, nature, if you want, more resources should be devoted to strengthening the inspectorate and more means of preventing injury in the use of pyrotechnic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u41	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! The purpose of the Explosive and Pyrotechnic Products Act is to regulate the production, transport and use of these products with a view to ensuring the safety of professional users and consumers of explosives and pyrotechnic articles. This area is also subject to the regulation of European legislation. The two Directives adopted by the European Union have already been implemented into the law in force. However, two other Directives have been adopted, namely 2013 and 2014, which are the subject of the amendments currently under consideration and the addition of this Act. Both Directives increase the liability of economic operators, producers and all entities in the supply or sale chain of explosives and pyrotechnics. The responsibility of the manufacturer of the explosives themselves is increased. The manufacturer is the one who knows the most about the design and production process of the products, so he must ensure that they are manufactured in accordance with safety requirements. It is obliged to draw up appropriate documentation and to ensure that the product complies with European Union legislation. The product therefore bears the CE marking in such a case. A national contact point is established for explosives and pyrotechnics, through which all international communications are carried out, namely this point of the MNZ. The bill also provides for broader powers and possibilities to act on the inspection of explosives and pyrotechnic means. Thus, the inspector has the duty to re-check the conformity of explosives or pyrotechnic articles available only on our internal market if he considers that it poses a risk to the life, health and safety of humans, property and the environment. If, upon re-checking the product, it is found that the product does not meet the safety requirements, the inspector may order the legal person to remedy the deficiencies and set the appropriate time limit for that purpose. In the event that the deficiencies are therefore not remedied within a specified period, or if it is found that they cannot be remedied, the inspector may impose restrictions or prohibitions on the availability of explosives or pyrotechnic articles. The inspection shall also obtain broader powers in the control of products available in other Member States of the European Union. If it is found that the product does not meet the safety requirements, it is obliged to take all necessary measures to ensure the safety of people and property in our country, while at the same time informing the European Commission and other EU Member States of the measures taken. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Explosive and Pyrotechnic Resources Act, as it brings solutions that ensure a higher level of health, safety and public safety, while also ensuring fair competition on the European Union market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will be presented by the mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! With the proposal for a law that we are considering today, two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council are transposed into the Slovenian legal order, as has already been said, on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the availability of pyrotechnic articles on the market, on renewal and on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States concerning the making available of explosives for civil use on the market and on their control. An essential amendment to the law is to increase the responsibility of economic operators to comply with explosives and pyrotechnic articles in order to ensure a high level of protection of public interest. The proposed amendment introduces the obligations of manufacturers to plan and produce products in accordance with the highest safety requirements in order to produce technical documentation and to attach the product to the instructions for use and safety information in the Slovenian language. The law treats importers and distributors in the same way as the manufacturer and imposes the same obligations on them as regards the adoption of appropriate withdrawal, recall and sales ban measures. The law introduces new obligations and powers to the Inspectors of the Republic of Slovenia for internal affairs regarding procedures for handling explosive and pyrotechnic articles which pose a risk to the life, health and safety of humans. The next thing that we think is very important is that this amendment of the law also refers to the so-called labelling of explosives. As far as pyrotechnics are concerned, the traceability system. I think it is right to say this out loud because of the importance, because the purpose of such labelling is primarily to prevent abuse and place, which is a great help to law enforcement authorities in following up on abuses, losses and thefts of explosive and pyrotechnic products. What is important to point out is the so-called security aspect which must be ensured by this law – at least by the State, that products presenting certain risks are safely used. We received a letter from the SMC Group prior to the consideration of this law concerning the use of firecrackers and other fireworks, which are very disturbing for most citizens as well as pets. The Committee has also been exposed to what injury may be caused by the reckless use of these funds; but we must stress that the sale and use of firecrackers is already prohibited, and the purchase of these is taking place on the illegal market. But we are very happy and welcome the decision that in the framework of the Board of Uniform Police, the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Institute for Health Protection was once again carried out in December 2014 a preventive action by Be a star, not a firecracker! And as they say in the analysis, the habits of users of pyrotechnic means change to the desired direction, to the welfare of all people. We will support the bill in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u45	Colleagues and colleagues, the president! Amendments to or additions to the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act do not, in our opinion, constitute key changes that would be necessary to ensure greater safety or use of pyrotechnic articles, particularly in minors who would like to be made public and which is indeed a major problem. The amendments to the Act are about the transposition of two European directives. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 and Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014. To be introduced, the marking of explosives shall be re-designated and the traceability system with a unique registration number shall be introduced for pyrotechnic articles. The transposition of both directives into the Slovenian legal order provides for positive effects on the liability of economic operators throughout the chain, namely when we are talking about production, storage and sales. The amendment of the law provides for a substantial extension of the powers of the Inspectorate of Home Affairs. Among other things, it will have to introduce an additional test of the contested explosive or pyrotechnic article in cooperation with one of the notified laboratories in the European Union. There's supposed to be 17 of them. And here comes the first dilemma. With all the known facts of the situation in the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to remind myself of the controversial debate when adopting the 2015 budget rebalancing, we rightly ask how the Inspectorate will be able to actually do so and that this will not ultimately result in just a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, we note that the bill-maker – the government did not want to make changes to the law in those parts that are most attractive. This is how the general public feels about the many inconveniences and accidents resulting from the use of pyrotechnic products during the so-called December celebrations. The fact that the proposed amendments pursue the objective of more effective control or action by supervisory authorities in cases where it is found that a particular product having a notification certificate does not comply with safety requirements is simply not sufficient to actually reduce the serious accidents that occur in the use of pyrotechnic products. Some people are marked for life, although they have never used pyrotechnic products; simply because of the lack of individuality. Thus, in the proposed law, individual pyrotechnic products can still be sold to children over 14 years of age without the supervision of an older person. These are primary school students who can buy and use category 1 pyrotechnic products themselves, whose main effect is also a pok. Children over 16 years of age may, however, purchase and use even stronger pyrotechnic products from the so-called category 2. In short, even after this amendment of the law, we will continue to have to cover our ears with pyrotechnic products during New Year's celebrations, watch frightened animals and monitor new and new news of accidents. Let me conclude that in one of the districts in Slovenia, in the house investigation, more than 7,000 pyrotechnic products were found in a minor. Respectable coalition, do you really want to live in a country like this?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Benedict Kopmajer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u47	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a new law on explosives and pyrotechnic articles. According to the proposed novelty, the responsibility of economic operators in the supply of these products will be increased by ensuring that the products meet all safety requirements. Products will also have to have an identification number or registration number and operators will have to keep records of them on the market. In the Desus Group, we support the proposal for a new law because we are pleased that the novelty brings a system of traceability of traffic in explosives and pyrotechnic articles, as this will, in our opinion, bring easier detection of abuses. No supplement was adopted at the treatment on the home working body to prohibit the sale, possession and use of first category products whose main effect is pok, so-called dog bomb and so on. Unfortunately, it would be a violation of one of the European directives of 2007 on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. At the same time, firecrackers that are most disturbing fall into the second and third categories of explosives whose sale, possession and use is already prohibited. Nevertheless, they are still quite present, as users apparently acquire them on the black market. The fact is that firecrackers continue to cause many injuries, since they are primarily handled by young people, who often do not know how to handle them properly. Therefore, in the Desus Group we welcome the preventive actions carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior at the New Year's holidays, when hunting is the most common. It is noted that such actions reach people in the subconscious, as repentance is becoming less and less. As has already been said, in the Desus Group we will support the amendment of the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u49	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to announce in the introduction the support of the Social Democrats for the proposed amendment to the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. Not only because we introduce into the Slovenian legal order two revised directives concerning the accessibility of pyrotechnic articles on the market and the availability of explosives for civil use on the market and their control; but also because increased liability of economic operators is introduced; from manufacturers, importers and distributors of explosive or pyrotechnic articles. The economic operators in this chain therefore undertake to provide safety and other regulatory requirements for the manufacture of explosive and pyrotechnic articles. In particular, in the event of non-compliance, they themselves must take appropriate measures, including recalling or withdrawing explosive or pyrotechnic articles from the market. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act also introduces some important amendments and additions relating to the introduction of additional powers and measures by explosive inspectors or pyrotechnic articles which pose a risk at national or European Union level – ensuring traceability of explosive devices with a registered identification number; traceability of pyrotechnic articles with a registration number and the possibility of withdrawing the already issued notification certificate for explosives or pyrotechnic articles placed on the market if they are found to be inconsistent with the essential safety requirements which could not be eliminated by re-evaluation. It is not to be overlooked that important objectives have already been achieved with the new law in 2008. The sale, possession and use of category 2 and 3 fireworks, the main effect of which is pok, was prohibited. There are firecrackers in the category that we all know more or less. The sale of category 1 fireworks, the main effect of which is pok, is only allowed from 19 to 21 December and can only be used from 26 December to 2 January. Here we count dog bombs, remorseful confetti and several other products. These products pose a very small risk and cause a negligible level of noise. The pyrotechnic articles must not be used in cramped dwellings, in buildings, in all closed spaces, in the vicinity of hospitals, in passenger transport vehicles, in public meetings and in public events. Legally, the use of sales has already been largely done, but we believe that no such restrictive ban on the use of pyrotechnic means will eradicate this. Let's ask ourselves why? But above all, who enjoys buying firecrackers and rockets, do they use them? We don't think they're our kids. It is the responsibility of our parents to teach our children and adolescents that the use of these products is very dangerous; that the reckless, reckless and frivolous use of pyrotechnic products causes too many serious injuries, such as burns of the face, eye injuries, hearing injuries, ruptures – usually of the hands. Youths need to be explained that all these injuries have affected us for the rest of our lives. Data on the number of injured persons, violations in the use of pyrotechnic articles and other relevant data in this area are collected in police website reports. However, I will allow myself to have a more recent analysis of the problem of the use of pyrotechnic products during Christmas and New Year's holidays 2013-2014, and I quote: "In 2013 we continued with the action Bodi Star, do not throw a firecracker! The user's habits in the use of pyrotechnic articles have proven to be changing in the desired direction. We can very well assess the performance of the tasks and activities of police administrations and police stations, which have led or engaged in various projects at regional and local level. However, the problematic use remains contrary to the manufacturer’s instructions, its own manufacture or processing, the use of pyrotechnic articles in other objects and the use of products purchased on the black market." The measures and preventive actions carried out by the public authorities and the State in the long term will produce positive results. Social Democrats, however, believe that we can make a big contribution to this by giving up the use of pyrotechnics. But if not without them, we use them with extreme care and care that we do not harm ourselves and others. We use where we do not disturb people, especially children, the elderly, and the sick. But we must not forget our animals. The Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law, as I have already announced in the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Articles and the amendments tabled to Articles 26 and 28, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. First, a representative of the Government, Mr Andrej Spang, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u51	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly define myself to the amendments and novels of the Explosives and Pyrotechnics Act. As you note, the main objective of the proposed law is to transpose the provisions of EU directives into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Directives 2013 and 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available and supervision of explosives of one Directive and pyrotechnic articles of another Directive. Both Directives and the proposal for a law are based on the introduction of increased liability for all economic operators in the entire supply chain — manufacturers, importers and distributors of pyrotechnic articles and explosives; by ensuring that explosives and pyrotechnic articles placed on the market comply with essential safety requirements and that, in the event of their non-compliance, all necessary measures are taken if their withdrawal or recall is also required. The draft law also lays down additional powers and measures of inspectors relating to explosives and pyrotechnic articles which constitute a risk either at national level or at European Union level. And I can say that the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia will also be strengthened to this end, including through internal redeployments. It therefore gives the Ministry of the Interior the opportunity to withdraw the certificates of notification already issued for explosives and pyrotechnic articles placed on the market, provided that the familiar evaluation reveals that their compliance with the essential safety requirements could not be eliminated at that time. In order to ensure traceability, as you can see, it is also stated that all the explosives put on the market by manufacturers must be fitted with a unique identification number, while pyrotechnic articles must be marked with a registration number. It is also the duty of manufacturers and wholesalers to keep records of the type and quantity of explosives produced, sold and destroyed by electronic means; and of all explosive users to keep the records electronically or in the form of books. They are all required to keep those records. However, they must also allow the supervisory authorities to check the records beyond normal regular working hours. The applicant therefore considers the solutions presented to be appropriate and proposes that the draft law be adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, we propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the law be dealt with at the same meeting. With regard to the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 26 of the draft law, by which the SDS Group proposes that the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, under inspection by pyrotechnics traders, pay particular attention to the implementation of Article 35 of the Act. The findings and proposals to improve the situation in the field of the sale of fireworks and security would also form an integral part of the annual report of the Ministry of the Interior. The Government does not support this amendment, since the Act on explosives and pyrotechnic articles already in force in Article 36 provides that the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs shall carry out inspections on the implementation of this Act and on the basis of its rules issued. This means that the Inspectorate is already in charge of inspection of section 35 of the Act. Therefore, additional, special attention is not required. Inspectors must also respect the public principle in their work. The latter is defined in Article 6 of the Inspection Control Act, which also provides that inspectors shall, on the basis of and within the limits of the powers of the chairman, inform the public of their findings and measures, if necessary; to protect the rights of legal and natural persons; and, where necessary, to ensure respect for the legal order or their provisions. In addition, I can say that the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs also reports on the operation and inspections carried out each year, highlighting also the essential findings of inspections in all areas of its work, including in the field of control of pyrotechnic products. All reports are accessible to everyone and are also published on the Inspectorate website where they can be viewed. In addition to the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the police also exercise control over the provision of Article 35 of the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. For preventive purposes, the police have been involved, as you know, in the action of Bodi Star, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the Institute of Health! It also analyses the use of pyrotechnic articles and also publishes them online. So I can say, as my fellow Member has said, that in one of the house searches, a minor found 7,000 pieces of pyrotechnic articles to be able to control it works well. The definition of the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 28 of the draft law, and this proposal follows the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, i.e. it is a nomotechnic amendment to the reference to a substantive provision and the latter amendment is also supported by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! My debate will focus mainly on greater and better awareness of the so-called obligations relating to explosive and pyrotechnic products. In view of the many things that have already been said, I do not think there should be too many warnings about the dangers arising from these so-called explosive and pyrotechnic objects. As has been mentioned many times in the introductory presentations, the main reason for amending this law is the two Directives. Here I should simply touch once again the content itself, as far as these directives are concerned, and what this means for our amendment to the law. In order to protect consumers, the Directives put a number of safety requirements at the forefront. As already mentioned, manufacturers must carry out a series of tests for explosive and pyrotechnic products before they are placed on the market to demonstrate their chemical and physical, mineral and safety characteristics. At the same time, manufacturers must also demonstrate that they have a permanent quality assurance system in place in production or that they are capable of ensuring the continued quality of their products. Each new product must be sent for testing to an independent laboratory which must comply with the requirements of the Directive and also of the Council. The competent authority of the country in which the laboratory is located shall, in cooperation with other national authorities, periodically verify the quality assurance system in the production itself by one of the modules set out in the decision of the European Commission. This is the conformity assessment procedure by which the manufacturer receives the so-called conformity certificate for his product; and only he can mark it with the so-called CE marking. This means that the CE marking is a product of constant quality and meets all the technical requirements which are the same for the entire European Union. Any explosive and pyrotechnic article which has this certificate of conformity may appear anywhere on the European market and States may not, by their legislation, impose any additional conditions to impede their market intervention. I believe that this is important, although it is almost universally known that we are once again aware of this. I would touch on another area, which was also exposed to the parental committee; only on the grave. Classification of pyrotechnic articles by category. According to our regulations, we have three groups. In the first group, fireworks are classified in four categories: first, second, third and fourth. I would point out only the first, which has also been mentioned most frequently in the debate. And the first category is a fireworks product, which poses a very small risk, causes negligible noise levels and is intended for use in compressed settlements, including fireworks, which are intended for use in residential buildings and other closed spaces. The second group of pyrotechnic products is simply mentioned as being only stage scenes. Here are two groups and in the third category, the remaining pyrotechnic products, which certainly also pose a certain danger, mean a great deal of care by their handling. What is important for all of us users, especially parents, is set out in Article 35 – Restrictions on the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles. The pyrotechnic articles of each category are not allowed to be sold to natural persons who are younger; 14 years for category 1; 16 years for category 2; 18 years for category P1 and T1. What does that mean? Notwithstanding the foregoing, the use of category 1 fireworks is also allowed for natural persons under the age of 14 and 16 if I add category 2; however, what is important if they are under the supervision of parents or guardians. On this occasion, I'd like to mention something else. The seller may require a natural person who considers that he does not meet the age conditions just mentioned to require him or her to demonstrate his or her age in advance by means of a public document proving the identity of the person. I would like to re-emphasize another category concerning the sale, possession and use of category 2 and category 3 fireworks products known as firecrackers. It should be reiterated that this is prohibited in the Republic of Slovenia. The sale of category 1 fireworks is returned to them, the main effect of which is pok, is allowed from 19 to 31 December and their use is allowed only from 26 December to 2 January. I conclude this part with the following definition, for which it is right to get to know each other again. The following are prohibited for natural persons: processing of pyrotechnic articles to increase the effect, use of pyrotechnic articles for other purposes, own manufacture of pyrotechnic articles or mixtures, and resale of pyrotechnic articles. I would like to touch another matter that was previously exposed. The use of different pyrotechnic articles that disturb many people every year spoils the atmosphere of a cheerful December and makes it compulsory for others to improve the December days. And if I can only mediate data, last year Ljubljana was in charge of this. The police recorded 99 violations; in second place was Slovenj Gradec with 39 and third Kranj with 34 violations. Because, above all, young people and even children of December’s day are very fond of repenting, many pyrotechnic products are being rounded up in primary and secondary schools at this time. Youth playful and unaware of the consequences of playing with pyrotechnics have also caused many injuries. Most commonly, according to data from medical circles, this occurs on the body, namely palms and eyes. Firecrackers from the black market are the greatest threat, either because they are of poor quality or even have serial errors. Therefore, there is no greater care that unauthorized pyrotechnics are not accidentally found in the hands of our children. And this should be highlighted by the need for parents to play their parental role. The sale of pyrotechnics online will also be in the eyes, as it makes it more difficult to check the age of the person being sold. In online shops, however, it is practical to buy everything from innocent sprinklers to so-called signal guns. The sellers may require the buyer to prove his age by means of a personal document, as I mentioned earlier, and the supplier should do so when selling online. Since online trade has contracts with various courier services, of which they are quite mysterious, it is interesting that also courier or post office staff can deliver pyrotechnics only on condition that they are professionally qualified to work with pyrotechnics and have obtained a so-called certificate. I am confident that, with the amendment of this law and all the activities to be carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs officials, police officers and inspectors will have much work to do in the coming time to detect all violators of the law for the safety of users and the accidental passovers found during the pyrotechnic fire. Let us hope that they can achieve consistent compliance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u55	Once again, thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. If I'm not mistaken, we're talking about amendments, and it's not a big deal if the debate was a little wider, so I'm going to allow it myself. Let me focus or focus on the amendment first. See, the amendment says exactly what those who support this law have stressed in their implementations that more prevention is needed, that more supervision is needed – and this is what our amendment says. Once again, I hope that you will not reject it simply because it has been prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let me stress what the main emphasis of this amendment is. In the case of the purchase of pyrotechnic articles of young people, it is 14 for category 1 and 16 for category 2, from this age, it is possible to purchase children. And when someone comes to the store, please tell me if the seller requires identification. How does he know that a teenager who may be a little older for his age is not 10 years old? This is said by the amendment that this monitoring must be strengthened. I also kind of reject the government's statements. You know, if these measures and controls were so successful, then such images would virtually be gone. If this control were really that effective, then only in the Maribor area at the end of this year would it not be treated at the hospital almost, I think, 89 injuries. So something's not working. Of course, we can never absolutely prevent everything, but the fact is that the amendment, which speaks of the fact that more attention should be given to supervision, is useful. And allow an answer to the Member who spoke of categories and needs. It is not true that a 14 - year - old can buy a pyrotechnic product under the supervision of a full - time person. That's not true! A 14-year-old product of category 1 can buy and use it on its own. A 16 - year - old can buy and use this product without parental supervision. I'm talking about Category 2. True, however, the law somehow introduces control over those under the age of 14 and 16. Of course, you should use all of this under parental supervision. This does not hold what SMC Member said. Your Honor, I hope that you will be drawn to this amendment's support at least in the next story. I'm talking about the former Miss Universe Sara Savonik. Although there is a very loud debate in the Chamber, I hope that you will listen to it at least to those who follow the darkness. Sara Savonik will remember her whole life on 14 November 2015. At that time, because of his apathy and foolish act, he lost his ears for all his life. And what was that story? It happened on a train to Maribor. "I was learning during the ride when a larger group of students entered the train in Celje." Students are usually expected to be underage. "One of them stood out in particular. And this guy threw a pyrotechnic product at me, kicked him to my head, and ran off the train. Because I was afraid that he would kick me in the face, I turned my head to the right, and the pyrotechnic product broke right near my left ear." This reminds us of Sarah, who then lost her life in some way, as she had before. She heard a bang, and then something began to flow out of her ear. "I felt unbearable pain. Upon arrival at the student home, my teacher took me to Maribor General Hospital. I was shocked," continues. "Suppose you're a teenager with a full head of dreams and desires, but in a second you're falling apart. At first, I was even comforting myself that it would be better soon, but it wasn't. My hearing hasn't been the same since. I had a hard time going back to school, suffering unbearable pain, having a hard time learning, and having a hard time coming up with a learning substance. I had a problem with concentration. Some of my classmates even expelled me or refused to talk to me because they had to speak out loud. That was a tough time for me. I kept wondering why it was me." Dear colleagues, I, too, wonder who it is who's going to be tomorrow. Let me say again that the accident took place in November, not during the so-called allowable use of pyrotechnic articles. And the fact is that we have not done enough in the field of the use of pyrotechnic articles. We didn't. And our amendment is headed in the direction of banning at least minors. If we have some other boundaries of 18-year-olds such as driving test and everything else, why is it allowed to purchase and use pyrotechnic products? Those who somehow want to break and make the sound of bang pleasant should go to those areas where it has been going very hard lately. You know exactly what extremists do. Slovenia probably doesn't want a pokova. You're talking about dog bombs, yes, and the real name is that dog bombs, and I'll tell you why. Because ugly individuals use these dog bombs to have a different kind of fun than just pop. They throw them directly into the vicinity of the animals, so that they're scared and the piano ends. This is also a fact of the use of pyrotechnic articles. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my call for you to support an amendment that does not speak in any other way than to strengthen control in this country and, finally, to consider preventing the purchase and use of pyrotechnic articles to minors. That's all. Is this really so much compared to maybe just reducing the use so that we can reduce statistics? You know, statistics are statistics -- I said before, 89 people in the Maribor hospital, but what are the consequences of these people?Oh, my God! Not only are they marked for life, some are disabled, they are no longer what they were. And that's just because we let this happen by law; and it's not just firecrackers. Some of you want to put everything on firecracker level. That's not true! Other products may also cause such accidents. And so let me finish. I think it would be right to say once again that this amendment is useful and that in no way changes something essential about what you have in mind. It will certainly help to make a difference in this area in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr Andrej Speng's State Secretary has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u57	Madam President, thank you for your word. As the Member mentions, I would like to answer the following. The proposed amendment does not define the sale of persons under the age of fourteen, but is the content of the amendment with regard to the supervision of the implementation of the law. Article 35 of the Act states that the sale of natural persons under the age of 14 is not allowed for pyrotechnic articles of the first category. As you mention, it is the seller's responsibility to sell as defined in the fourth paragraph of that Article. The seller may also require an identity from a natural person whom he believes does not meet the conditions set out in paragraph 1. I can say that as strict legislation as we adopt it in the Republic of Slovenia is in force only in four other countries, in the UK, Sweden, Romania and Ireland. The sale of firecrackers, which is prohibited and classified in the second category, is also allowed in all neighbouring countries: Austria, Italy, Croatia. In Slovenia, this law is no longer permitted. However, persons under the age of 14 may use first-class pyrotechnic products only under parental supervision. The latter means – a person under 14 years of age can buy a pyrotechnic product of the first category. As we note, it includes products such as repentant lighters, Christmas flakes, Christmas New Year's sparkles, confetti or fireworks for cake. So you can buy fireworks for your cake in a free shop under the age of fourteen; however, the use of this flame is only allowed under parental supervision. These are products that have very small risks and cause negligible noise levels. However, I must also point out that if we were to enforce this in our law, we would be in breach of the European Union directives because the latter does not prohibit it. It is also right that such stories mentioned by the Member are heard and that parents and children are aware that something like this can also happen. Responsibility is certainly a responsibility for all of us, so we must continue to give more emphasis to prevention and education. Once again, however, I must stress that the implementation of the law under the proposed amendment is the latter – control is already defined in Article 36 of the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs shall carry out inspections on the implementation of this Act and on the basis of its issued regulations. As I mentioned earlier, the police also exercise control over the provision of Article 35 of the Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you. The MP wanted a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I don't think we understand each other, or you didn't want to understand everything I said. Have you ever been to a pyrotechnics store? Have you ever noticed anyone demanding an identity? Come on. I'm going to tell you that it's huge that it's not like that. Because in the final stage – the seller wants to sell the product. Maybe they recognized you in this store, but they didn't recognize me, so I could see it. The amendment we are talking about only wants the following — greater respect for Article 35; supervision or sale takes place in accordance with Article 35. And now I'm going to tell you again what the problem is. A 12-year-old man steps into the store, showing 14 years of age according to his appearance. Because the seller thinks he's 14 years old, and there's no reason to think he's any different, the pyrotechnic product sells him. The same goes for 16 years. This is what our amendment says: Article 35 must be strengthened in terms of supervision. And another thing about this is that we are kind of at the top of the limit with regard to countries. Why don't we just be at the top? What's stopping us? Does all the stories we have opened today, which are still huge, hinder us from being at the very top? And that is what we are talking about, that perhaps the legislator in the future, because today, of course, this is not possible, has considered that the so-called article, which speaks of categories and uses, would change and limit the purchase of products to minors. For sooner in my mind you wanted to be a little banalized category 1 into various fireworks on your cakes; but you let go of the dog bombs that I told you about. They look completely innocent, but like I said, what happens to the environment and animals, but that's something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u60	I would warn you that three minutes have passed and that we still have time to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u61	I'll continue if I have to. In short, let's be fair if not the other way around when we're talking about this difficult topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u62	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! The purpose of the SDS Group, when we proposed amendments to the Committee, was very simple – banning the sale, possession and use of firecrackers. Because in our opinion, until the Ministry officials claimed that firecrackers belonged to the second category, they had problems where firecrackers belonged. And if you have problems with what category of firecrackers they belong to, then you also have a problem with sales, property and use. Although Mr Verbič had already talked about Category 1 and Category 2 before, let's say that it is such a small change that we always have a problem with Slovenians, what is the theory of what practice is. And finally, there's always that devil in the details. Category 1. On the committee we learned that these are not firecrackers, but fireworks, which pose a very small risk, are causing a negligible level of noise. Category 2. Fireworks that pose a small risk. Before we had a very small risk, we now have a small risk. In Category 1, we have a negligible level of noise, here we have a low level of noise. And, uh, we had a problem. We solved it on the committee, it was said that firecrackers belong to Category 2, which still pose a small risk, although unfortunately we know that is not the case in practice. Before, colleague Anja told one story, showed one picture. Something turned to us, or at least I had received some electronic messages from various animal - protection societies that had problems with the use of firecrackers. Although I do not have pets myself, I am the parent of two small instigators and we have a problem between December 26th and January 1st. For Category 1 says: "Fire products are intended for use in broken settlements, including fireworks, which are intended for use in residential buildings and other closed spaces." Category 2, i.e. firecrackers, are intended for use in restricted outdoor areas. Here is what we wanted the initiators to do in the amendment to the parent working body – but unfortunately the main articles talking about it are closed – have also tried to draw attention to at least some of the issue of control with our amendment, which is in Article 26. If we strictly read the law, what category 2 is, that they are firecrackers, who are allowed to use, sell and own property and what they say in terms of powers, and the actions of inspectors, and also the actions of the police, if everything in Slovenia worked in practice, we would not have the stories we have. That animal protection societies fight to prevent firecrackers from having a problem when we have a problem instead of peaceful Christmas-new holidays fireworks like we used to have, or those that we are a little close to the border, when we listened to it, how the elderly people in Croatia must have problems, if there are limited areas in the open, which is once again debateable, where it is that the firecracker and the elderly gentleman are breaking down, of course, the elderly lady is holding back, because we who are some middle-aged people have problems when some firecracker should be a dog bomb or some other firecracker, because, as we know, they are green, blue and red have different powers. [[…]] These children, or minors, or 16 years later who use them, are fun. It's not a lot of fun for a lot of people. That is why we really wanted, in view of what I have already said, that many of the members are unfortunately imprisoned, although I welcome the debate in particular, which we have had on the committee and today, that we need to be informed, but I still think that our amendment does not in any way break the concept of law, does not harm at all. Although, as I have already said, we have in paragraphs 36 and 38 of our mandate, but if we once again write that the inspectorate has a special weight in traders regarding the sale of pyrotechnic articles and that we are trying to strengthen this control and that the police are also making an annual report by the competent ministry so that we should not have any problem supporting this amendment. If, by this amendment or perhaps by today's debate, at least we are aware that firecrackers belong to Category 2, and therefore that inspectors and police should act in such a way that they represent only a small risk and a low level of noise and should not be used in those areas referred to in Article 35 of the Act, where it states, the use of category 1 fireworks, i.e. one category lower, the main effect of which is pok, is prohibited in flats, buildings and all closed spaces, in the vicinity of hospitals, in transport facilities, on areas where public meetings and public events are taking place. Then you come to a pre-new meeting organized by municipalities or societies, and then you shouldn't even use category 1 products that have a very small risk, cause a negligible level of noise, but their main effect is failure. But we all know what it's like in practice. On December 31st, many of the older, many families, especially those who might take a quadruple to an event, do not go because they know what the situation is in practice. Therefore, once again and in the end, I repeat, the amendment is in no way in harm's way to increase control over the use or in this respect of the sale of pyrotechnics. We would also like to propose an amendment on the use of firecrackers, but the articles are not open. We are indeed proposing that such minor changes should be made so that we may at least show by Article 26 that firecrackers are banned from the period from 26 December to 1 January, their sale, possession and use. But the practice in Slovenia is unfortunately different from the legal norms. And since the devil is always in detail, I believe that even with the best law we will not solve this problem, but through very limited control, we can also limit it to some extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the legal relationship and the social dimension. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u65	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye, everybody! The United Left Group has tabled an amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with one single and simple reason to eliminate the unconstitutional situation and systematic discrimination against same-sex partners. Discrimination afforded by the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This proposal therefore ensures equality before the law. Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that "in Slovenia everyone is guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation". Article 14 of the Constitution therefore prohibits discrimination in the provision, exercise or protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the light of individual personal circumstances, which undoubtedly include sexual orientation. We can therefore talk about discrimination when the state treats individuals differently in the same situations. In the case of same-sex and diversified partners, as the Constitutional Court also points out, in essence, the same factual and legal basis for living communities. Any distinction in the legal regime of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is not based on some real non-personal circumstances, but on sexual orientation. In cases of same-sex and diversified partners, the key feature of the relationship is the stable relationship of two people close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other. In view of the fact that this is the same situation, any distinction should be regarded as discrimination in the light of personal circumstances. The current situation is therefore contrary to the Constitution and places same-sex couples in an unequal position and discriminates against them. It is only from the fact that one group of individuals is married to another group of individuals, another group of individuals, that there is no equal treatment. The proposal for a law tabled by the United Left Group has the same objective and principle: to abolish provisions which make the law and non-legislatively anti-constitutional and discriminatory as a community of two persons of the opposite sex, and thus understand gender and sexual orientation as the personal circumstance on which individual rights are derived. The bill thus introduces a new concept of marriage and extramarital union, which may or may exist regardless of gender between the two partners. Based on the findings of the Constitutional Court that two persons of the same sex are considered to be the same legal and factual basis of the community as the marriage of two persons of different sexes, and relating to the requirement for a legal state and to the full equality of the amendment, the marriage community is defined as a living community of two persons. Consequently, the proposal recognises the legal consequences of the life of two persons of the same sex who have not entered into a marriage, but there are no reasons why the marriage between them would be invalid. In the Group, the United Left considers that this proposal, which is, inter alia, consistent with the professional public and the competent ministries and is fully supported by the unified LGBT community, is the only systematic solution to the anti-constitutional and discriminatory situation in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members, dear Members, we must be aware that being free is not just a right, it requires more. To live in a way that respects and promotes the freedom of others. If you are married or have the same rights as married couples in an extramarital community, ask yourself why you would have this right and deny it to others. I am pleased that today the rights that we and my wife have will also be recognized by many same-sex couples, who today are unjustifiably denied. This will move forward towards a truly tolerant and inclusive society. With this step Slovenia is now entering the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u67	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Dr Mate T. Vatovec, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly also confirmed the procedure. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the department, representative of the Law and Law Service, representative of the State Council and a large number of representatives of the professional and interested public participated in the work of the committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made specific comments to Article 5. Among other things, she pointed out that all issues relating to the implementation of the amendments laid down in the material part of this novel should be dealt with in detail through the preliminary and final provisions. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented by mag. Darja Kuzmanič Korva, and the bill supports. In the Commission's view, it is necessary to allow non-discriminatory and constitutionally undeniable acquisition and exercise of rights to same-sex partners, as proposed by the amendment of this Act, as soon as possible. The Committee also received many comments from the interested public. The main part of these comments, and in particular the negative views, relates to the new definition of marriage, whereby the applicant fully aligns the living community of men and women with the same-sex partnership. The amendments of the United Left Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Emissary Group were tabled. The representative of the motions briefly presented the draft law and the representative of the legal service briefly presented their opinion and said that the amendments of the United Left also took their comments into account. In its opinion, the government does not oppose the proposed solutions to the law. The debate, which took place primarily on Article 1 of the proposal for a law, has raised the view of some discussers that it is unacceptable to deal with it in short-term proceedings, as the topic requires a broader public debate prior to the hearing on the home committee. It was proposed that the Committee adopt a decision on the public presentation of opinions, which was rejected by most members of the Committee. The opponents of the bill drew attention to the expressed will in the referendum on the family code, where people have expressed their opinions and are now not being followed. They also believed that it was a grave offense to abolish the values of marriage and to redefinition the family. In their view, the role of the family as a fundamental cell of society and a major intervention in the rights of children, according to their fatherhood and motherhood, will be withdrawn and it is a social and social experiment. The advocates of the bill stressed, however, that the proposal is consistent with the Constitution, that discrimination in this area must be abolished, that human rights are universal and that the history of democracy is linked to the exercise of the rights of minorities and the protection of those who do not have political power. With the amendment of the law, the definition of family, as we know it today, is only spreading. Some debaters have stressed that by adopting this novel we will give a clear message to citizens that we are becoming a tolerant and mature society, which is also accepting different ones. The Committee adopted the amendments of the United Left Group but did not adopt the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Finally, the Committee voted on and adopted several articles of the bill. A supplementary proposal is prepared as received with the material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u69	Dear Vice-Presidents and Members of Parliament! After ten years or even more, it is imperative that we regulate the rights of same-sex persons as this community deserves. The bill does not take anything from anyone, but it only extends the rights. Thus, the definition of marriage extends also to the community of two persons of the same sex. The law provides that two persons of the same sex who enter into a marriage may be afforded mutual rights and duties. This follows the findings of the Constitutional Court that the legal consequences of a community of two must not be based on the sexual orientation of an individual. The Community is defined as a marriage and not more than a same-sex partnership. On the basis of the proposal that you will decide today, all provisions governing the situation between spouses will also apply to marriage relations between two persons of the same sex. The newly defined marriage provides that children can also adopt a sexually oriented spouse together, but still not an extramarital partner. The registration of same-sex communities is expected to be transformed into a marriage within six months of the adoption of the law if the conditions for the validity of marriage under the Marriage and Family Relations Act are met. The Government has also drawn up a proposal for a partnership law, which, as proposed by the novels, regulates the equality of partnerships and marriages, because we believe that people should not be treated equally on the basis of sexual orientation, and our common duty is to eliminate the unconstitutional situation found in the two Constitutional Court decisions after which the deadline for the elimination of non-compliance expired after the first, 2010 and the second decision at the end of 2013. However, since the proposal for a law on marriage and family relations in the procedure was sent before the law on the partnership community and since it regulates the same rights as the law on the partnership community, we have decided not to oppose the proposed changes as the Government. The proposed novel extends the rights to adoption as well, and some clarifications may be needed in the first place. At the Ministry, we understand the desire for parenthood, but the country, with appropriate legal arrangements, must enable the establishment and protection of family life for all its citizens, so we need to regulate family relations, social protection, education and education. The decision for parenting is a personal decision and therefore it cannot and must not be regulated by systemic measures. There is no right to a child, not the right to a biological child and not the right to adopt a child. With the proposed amendment, we do not give the same-sex couples the right to adopt, but only the possibility of putting 572 applications for adoption in line. The same-sex partners have been waiting 11 years for their rights. I think society is so mature, I hope that we are so mature that we overcome prejudice and that as a society, we are able to accept each individual as he is. The rights of same-sex women have already been regulated by almost all countries of the European Union, and it is only right that Slovenia joins in on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We Christian Democrats, to put it mildly, have been amazed at the content and manner of the bill on marriage and family relations, proposed by the United Left with silence, but more solid support from coalition parties, or all the Slovenian political lefts. All of this shows how important it is for all of these people to have power over the people after the Constitution in Slovenia. On a proposal from the novel, Members of the committee responsible received more than 500 comments from citizens. With regard to the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, Christian Democrats have always publicly pointed out that we do not oppose the regulation of the rights of same-sex persons, but it is unacceptable for us that the novel introduces, after a reduced procedure, the full equalization of same-sex partnerships with the marriage of men and women. For us in particular, the possibility of joint adoption of children by the two same-sex partners is disputed and we strongly oppose it. We draw on a number of expert opinions in this regard, and above all, the opinion of the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia on Medical Ethics, which in 2012 at the referendum of the rejected proposal of the Family Code, among other things, I quote: "Let us say that the new use of the term 'family' can have far-reaching consequences for the legal, social and private situation of individuals, adults and children. We believe that these consequences will reach a number of areas, that they are not fully predictable and that it is unlikely that all children will benefit. We have no evidence that all the diverse communities of adults and children are equally successful, equally safe and equally beneficial for children's development. In the same-sex community, children will not have both parents, that is, mothers and fathers. Of course, such a situation has always been the result of divorce, death, or abandonment of a parent’s role for various reasons. It is appropriate to do everything possible to make it easier for children to reduce the cost of losing or leaving one or both parents. It is wrong, however, if we do not take this child's position as a deprivation, but as a fully acceptable circumstance for children born and for the families of future children." The Christian Democrats are once again reminded that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by Decision No. 425/06 of 2 July 2009 did not repeal the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community, but decided that it was in breach of the Constitution only Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community. In the 12th paragraph of the sentence, it was extremely written, and I quote: "The registered partnership is a relationship that is similar to a marriage or an extramarital community. The Constitutional Court has established the relationship as similar, but it is not in any way the same and did not require any equivalence. The new law in marriage substantially exceeds in the decision the obligation imposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to remedy legal non-compliance and introduces solutions not imposed by the Constitutional Court. However, when considering legislative proposals in the field of same-sex partnerships, our observation has been subject to the demands on the rights of persons with homosexual tendencies and is forgotten about their duties. Are those who demand a perfect equation conscious of all the responsibilities that this would bring to them? The consequences are or will be in a number of other areas where we see that neither the novice’s proponents nor supporters know what they are or how many there are, since they would otherwise have decided to amend each sector’s legislation or regulate the rights of the same sexes in a specific law. We Christian Democrats are convinced that the proposal for a novel is also contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution also provides for marriage and family as human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in Article 53, paragraph 3, I quote: "The State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection." We are sad to be attacked by those who fight for the well-being of children. We share an enemy speech, and the possibility of conscientious objection for all those who disagree with the law is nowhere. Let us once again say that we are the same-sex workers in order to regulate our rights, but we cannot agree to such regulation as would be in the best interest of children. Christian Democrats, together with the Commission for Medical Ethics, call for moderate, cultural and tolerant performances. We are discussing things that concern a sensitive minority, where there are still the most sensitive children. It will be weak to create new divisions and new prejudices, which will mainly burden the environment in society for the benefit of children for a long time. Members of the New Slovenia – we will vote against the proposal for a novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u73	Hello! Today is indeed a beautiful day, because we are considering two parliamentary laws, and I hope that, of course, we are also successful. I'm sure it's not just hope. This is primarily the moment of gratitude to the United Left that at some point she simply decided and took the step that someone else would have taken if she had not done it. Yet, it is also considered a history of who did it, and it is the same. But what are we really discussing today, and what will we really decide today? All the time we're talking about same-sex couples and marriage and the hottest question I've heard since yesterday or this morning is this unfortunate adoption, which is not the subject of this law at all. Thus, we are afraid of something that has not yet been determined, nor has the first test been done, nor have we placed them in the same order. However, throughout history, it has always been so, every discrimination, every right has been faced with torment, with pain, with great blood, and today with great patience and much discussion over many years. It is obvious that there has not been enough debate, even today we will hear it perfectly. It's obvious it's not natural. That's what we're gonna hear today. The obvious is that it is simple, which is horrifying to hear, but you will hear that we have decided on the conscious and planned collapse of the Slovenian nation into extinction and even today you will hear. But don't let it provoke you for one simple reason, because we're doing the right thing. It's the right thing to do. It has to be reduced, and every day I will be happy when we decide that one discrimination will be less. In this case, there are more discriminations, so it seems important to me that we know at least the following things before we go to the debate. 13 countries in Europe have already settled this issue that we are still dealing with. 13 federal states in the United States have put this issue on the agenda. 4 other countries in the world have put this issue on the agenda. And in 13 countries, similar procedures are under way, with the same content, the same objective, and it is only a matter of time before they are adopted. Now, of course, we will hear a lot more today, and the referendum, and the Constitutional Court – I'm sorry, I don't care what the Constitutional Court thinks, what's right and what's wrong – yes, absolutely, there are organs, so we have it in the country to judge when it's called for it, but or as a nation we can say what we want, what we want and what it's time to settle. I think so. Today is the day. I don't know why we have such problems every time people love each other and when they want to respect each other, when they want to cherish each other, when they want to inherit, when they want to have their own community called family. I just can't be against it, especially if it doesn't affect me. Nothing will change to me. I will still have a marriage and my wife will still be my wife, unlike those who think everything will change. After the adoption of this law, as some people have already said, will be a new day, then we will find that everything is as it was yesterday, just a little more peaceful to sleep. I will be happy to support this law and, of course, also in our Alliance. I'll see you in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will be presented by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Chairman, colleague, colleagues! During the course of civilizational development, advanced societies were based on the concept of human beings as a unique community. In other words, the act of birth is supposed to reflect the glory of life and the diversity and potential that individuals carry in order to enrich the society and the environment that we belong to. Therefore, the difference in this primal sense should be understood as a gift, as a fundamental component of equality and not as the first cal dissension of society. For an open and forward-looking society has the same advantages as being a man, being young has as many weaknesses as being old, being as large as being small, being a Slovenian has as many limitations as being a foreigner, being a Christian has as much value as being an Orthodox, Muslim or atheist, being a conservative electorate has the same importance as being a socialist or liberal electorate. So, you'll say, clear theory, outside the door of less clear practice. Practices that for even less than centuries generally believed to be a bright, tall, blue-eyed man ideal, which should be served by all not the same characteristic. Again, other practices that, centuries ago, due to the above-mentioned first practices, were forced to fight for their own right of equality and freedom at birth through legal regulatory protection, as the free will of other individuals of this natural equality did not recognise them. More than that, she wouldn't let them, and in some cases she wouldn't let them. Let me mention some of these international normative practices that have had to be established in response to attempts to address fundamental rights and human freedoms related to the lack of understanding of equality through practice: the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1968, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 1965, the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers, 1975, pay attention now, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 1979, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 2006. The Convention on the Rights of the Elderly is still under preparation. Just as there is zero tolerance for reaching out to anyone or anything in the personal circumstances of an individual’s life, when and if he has an agreed relationship with others, it is also a matter of personal decision and of judging an individual’s love for another, when it is, of course, mutually agreed. Just as we do not command anyone, when, under what conditions, we must love short - haired, long - legs, faithful, unfaithful, light, or less light - sexed, so in the case of a consensual relationship, we also have no right to command, restrict, or even forbid anyone to love — women or men. At a moment when we decide to think in this direction, we are on the path of a fundamental intervention into the personal freedom of another, the inviolability of theirs, theirs or theirs. With what right, and with what right? According to Members of the SMC, the novel under consideration is properly governed by the situation of a community of two persons of diversity or the same sex who establish this community by the conclusion of a marriage or an extramarital community. In this way, it allows them legal recognition, the creation of mutual rights and obligations. The Law also regulates the marriage of two persons and their mutual legal, social and economic rights and obligations, irrespective of the sexual orientation of the two persons. By no means does it give anyone any special rights based on sexual orientation and in itself does not in itself constitute an infringement of the rights of third parties. I am speaking, of course, of trying to manipulate this law with the right to adopt children. In the case of adoption, children and their interests are at the forefront of adoption, and there is absolutely no right of an adult to adopt a child. So once again, the question of understanding family and family relations is not the subject of regulating the novel that we are adopting today. The main substantive issue of today's novelty is the equalization of rights and obligations arising from marriage [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u76	Please, if you'll just finish it slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u77	and they are concluded by two adults. [[…]] What basically led both, the amended state standards and also some other [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u78	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u79	is support, is support for individuals to love each other in harmony, harmony, and commitment, are loved, and are open and unlimitedly fulfilled, and happy in the love they share with each other and with others [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u80	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u81	and are also signed morally and programmely in the modern-centre SMC Group. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u82	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u83	Your Honor! In the short term, a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with Content has been tabled, which has already been rejected in a compromise form at the 2012 referendum. At a time when the state is facing the greatest social crisis, the coalition has decided to overtake the will of the electorate, the electorate expressed in the referendum, and adopt a law that brings nothing to the families. The only purpose of the law is to redefine the marriage by a procedure which, to the maximum extent possible, excludes public and professional participation, and by a procedure in which it is not possible to get rid of the impression that it is a rematch against the expressed will of voters and voters in the referendum. The law's proponents are deceiving that the law is intended to be necessary as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 2. Seven. 2009 The treatment of non-conformity with respect to inheritance, which is in practice eliminated in one way or another, cannot be the reason for redefining the entire marriage. This is also not based on the reasoning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on the contrary, the Constitutional Court has taken the view that the same partnership is a relationship which, by its content, is merely a similar marriage. So it's about communities that are separate by nature. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has never repealed the entire law on the registration of same-sex communities, which would have done so if it considered that the law violated article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia on the prohibition of discrimination. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations interferes with the Institute of Marriage in the way that the proposed solutions are clearly contrary to at least Article 53 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the Resolution on the Basics of Family Policymaking in the Republic of Slovenia. The only solution to the law is to erase the concept of husband and wife from the legal system and to replace it with two persons. If it were the intention of the proposers to regulate the rights of same-sex partnerships, why is a redefinition of the marriage proposed? Equalization of marriage to the same-sex community also means equalization in all rights arising otherwise from the right to the founding of a family. This means that the law proposes that two persons of the same sex adopt a child or are entitled to artificial insemination, even though both persons are fertile. This would allow the State, systematically and not objectively, to raise children without a father or without a mother, thus pursuing exactly the opposite objective, as set out in Article 53 of the Constitution of Slovenia, in order to protect the State's family, motherhood and fatherhood and create the necessary conditions for this protection. The General Declaration on Human Rights and Freedoms of the UN also imposes a duty to protect the family, which it identifies as a fundamental cell, and it is the responsibility of both the State and society to protect. The proposal for this law abolishes the sole definition of husband and wife. Since the adoption of this marriage, husbands will no longer be husbands, and wives will no longer be wives, but they will be two persons. As a result, husbands and wives will no longer be subject to other legal provisions, including the assumption that the husband is the father of a child born in a marriage. The law will allow the adoption of a child to two persons of the same sex, but it will not allow the adoption of a child to old parents in case the child loses the parents. We think it's a marriage that's very poorly prepared. It shall be adopted by means of a reduced procedure based on the abuse of rules of procedure. There was no public debate before we got him and the Members at the table. In the SDS, we support the rights of same-sex couples when it comes to social and natural rights between adults. Adoption of a child is not an adult's human right; adults cannot ask the country to do so. It is the child who is the bearer of the human right to be adopted into the community of men and women, that is, into an environment that is as close as possible to the environment in which he lived when he lost his parents. The task of society is to support the child's primary need to live with his mother and father. In our country, it seems that we have just the problem of taking care of families to enable children to live a decent life with their mother and father. For example, we do not say that two men cannot be a good father, but we say that none of them can be a good mother. A bad year ago, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said in an interview for the newspaper: I am not opposed to the rights of same-sex women, but I believe that it is not reasonable to enforce them in society. We are a democratic society and we need a democratic consensus to do so. And a few days ago, the Prime Minister announced a referendum. If sometimes society is not ready to accept the news, it will simply reject it, perhaps at the referendum. Therefore, it is itself aware that we are bringing the matter into force, without social consensus, by means of a rapid procedure, without public debates and confrontations. The adoption of this law will be a complete ignorance of the democratic consensus. Therefore, and because of the proposal in the SDS for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All together a nice greeting, especially Minister Anji Kopač Dark! On 25 March 2012 we decided on the family code at the referendum. Not a third of the electoral beneficiaries voted and the result was a decline in the code. The difference between rejection and support was slightly less than 10% of the vote. Has Slovenian policy and society changed so much since 2012 that changes to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations are proposed in the United Left and can finally take effect in all rights and obligations equal to all forms of partnership? For those who have already opposed the recognition of the same-sex equality in all rights and obligations, except in the so-called external adoption of children of the same-sex partners, with a traditional marriage, which was then a compromise proposal to achieve the greatest possible social consent and support, this novel is an even greater shift from their beliefs and opinions. However, those who are more liberal in this area and who look at human rights and freedoms from a different perspective are even better and closer. At the time of the adoption of the family code, members of the then mandate of Desus voted in their conscience, most of whom voted in favour of the code. This time, too, the Desus Group is not united in its position on this subject. Members and Members will decide on their own conscience and conviction. In this presentation of the position of the Desus Group, there will not be much talk on the very content of the law and the controversy on our part about how and why the law is unacceptable for support or, on the other hand, on how important it is and right that, in the spirit of respect for human rights and freedoms, which are declared by international acts, it also recognises Slovenia, because they are enshrined in our Constitution and protected by the Constitutional Court as the highest court, and in the reality of everyday life, we equate different partnerships with the classic relationships made up of men and women. The point at which we cannot unite in our parliamentary group and perceive it as a fraction of a purely personal intimate belief is in the so-called external adoption of children of sexually oriented partners, a child whose parents are not his biological father or mother. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the fact that there are already families in our area where a child has two mothers or two fathers. But it is very important that we also realize that the role of the family is more than just biological. The social role played by a healthy and quality family relationship between people living together is essential to the child’s benefit. What we fear in our parliamentary group is the fact or rather the question whether the Slovenian family is already ready enough to adopt a completely liberal approach to equal settlement of issues in different types of partner communities without any reservations. Part of our parliamentary group is much more in favour of the Proposal for a Partnership Community Act prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as it meant a gradual transition to the full equalization of same-sex relationships with heterosexuals. As has already been said in the Desus Group, we will decide in our opinion when voting on the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Anja Kopač Dark! Social Democrats welcome the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which we will unanimously support. Confirmation of this law will constitute the direct enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Acceptance will align the rights of diversified and same-sex couples. That's right, and it's about time. For too long, this pursuit of diversity, this denial of equality, the denial of the inalienable freedom of an individual and the violation of the Constitution of rights. Human rights are the foundation of society, a society that cares about its members and members, the foundation of a community that knows that it will be most successful when all its members are able to realize their potential. Social Democrats want to develop the progressive, open and free-thinking character of society in an inclusive way and for enhanced social communication. Tolerance, acceptance of diversity, equal rights for all are the minimum conditions under which society can fully exercise its full potential. The communities that shine in all the shades of the rainbow do not fear such great shocks. She'll be able to jump any obstacle. We believe in values where we can build a society based on human dignity. Social Democrats have adopted the concept of acceptance and respect for diversity, which not only permits but strengthens positive differences in human character, culture, nationality, sex and other definitions. Tolerance is understood as acceptance and respect for human uniqueness, while at the same time the primary principle of solidarity and partnership. Tolerance is primarily the responsibility of those with greater social and political power. Social Democrats are committed to respecting differences, accepting the specificities of each of us. We support those groups that are led by injustice in the political and social struggle for the enlargement and enforcement of fundamental values that should be the property of each individual. However, we firmly oppose those who call for false justice through gloomyness. When we clear all the decorations of justice and justice, we get a clear message: the same-sex citizens are second-class citizens. We can't, we can't, and we won't, and we won't. The difference must become our advantage! The same-sex orientation is social reality. This is not a choice, is a fact and is a personal circumstance under which the Constitution prohibits discrimination. Where it is the right to make a marriage also to same - sex partners, this role is not valued for women, and men are no less male, and marriage is no less valid. This is not happening far from here, it is also known by the countries in our neighborhood around us. Nothing was taken from anyone except that the same-sex award was finally given to the same-minded. Recognition that they are equal members of the company. That is exactly what we want for our citizens and citizens, equality is said. After all, let us fall in love with a person, not her sex. The Social Democrats will not support the amendments of the opposition party. However, we welcome the proposed amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and will unanimously support it in its original content. Slovenia should become a country that respects diversity, equality and human rights. Today's the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u89	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues! In the Group of Members, the United Left believes that after more than 20 years of fighting to equalize the rights of same-sex and diversified partners, 18 years after making a similar 1997 proposal and many public debates and media campaigns that have already drawn up all the views and arguments, now is finally the time for us to take on responsibility without interference and to ensure equality before the law for all citizens and residents of Slovenia. We have thus tabled the novel ZZDR for a simple reason, by redefining the legal community into a simple but systematic and comprehensive way to eliminate the anti-constitutional situation and discrimination of same-sex partners, which is made possible by the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal on the table today will thus give couples the rights and obligations that other couples already have. In this context, it is simply about ensuring equality in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, in particular Article 14 thereof, which stipulates that we are all equal before the law and that any distinction on the basis of personal circumstances is unconstitutional and discriminatory. In the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear from the way it is regulated, that we have one group of individuals and one group of individuals of another, that it is not equal treatment. However, it is crucial that the same-sex partners in Slovenia are violated certain fundamental social, economic and legal rights, such as the right to leave work due to illness of the partner or partner, the right to compensation for income for the care of the family member, the right to health insurance by partner, the right to claim material compensation for mental pain in the face of death or severe disability of the partner and many others. As he says, such discrimination and the adoption of legislation on the table today are also bound by the two judgments of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2009 and 2013, which establish that they are essentially the same and diversified partnership. This means that there is no just and factual or legal reason for unequal treatment before the law. Even in the wider European context, the legal trend in this area is clear. Every month, we are witnessing new judgments by constitutional and international courts which recognise the same rights for same-sex couples in many areas of life. The trend is quite clear and is heading towards a perfect equation, which is only a matter of time. Already 25 years ago, Denmark, as the first country in Europe, adopted legislation on a registered partnership. 15 years ago, the Netherlands completely aligned the rights of same-sex and diversified couples, and today 11 European countries already know the legislation we are proposing. And it was not in any of these countries that the black scenarios feared by the opponents of the new ZDR were realized. In Slovenia, we have been discussing the equalisation of rights since 1989, but so far there have been no systematic solutions. If Slovenia was the first of neighbouring countries to regulate this area 10 years ago, though poorly, most of us are now ahead of schedule. Hungary, Austria and even Croatia have more advanced legislation than Slovenia. Today we have the opportunity to re-establish ourselves as a progressive, democratic and tolerant society in this area and join countries that have already fully established equality between diversified and same-sex couples. So today is the opportunity for Slovenia to enter the 21st century. In the United Left Group, we therefore believe that our proposal, which is consistent with the professional public and the competent ministries and is fully supported by the unified LGBT community, is the only and necessary systematic solution to the anti-constitutional and discriminatory situation in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal does not introduce anything radical but simply follows the fundamental principles of democratic society, the results of more than a decade of civil dialogue and public debate. In our efforts to democratise all spheres of social life, socialists are also stressing that now is not the time for new debates, but the actual changes brought by the proposed law. Changes with which no one loses anything, but many will gain much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 2 March 2015. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. The first one was proposed by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. Initially, I would just like to say that, after presenting the views of the groups of Members, it is clear that I am very pleased that the proposal for a new law will actually receive sufficient support or support from most of the groups of Members. This will finally eliminate discrimination between same-sex couples. Today, we will therefore be reinstated in this area as a progressive, democratic and tolerant society and join the countries that have already fully established equality between diversified and same-sex couples. With this Slovenia enters the 21st century. That's proof of that. We are pleased that most in this Chamber agree that it is possible to settle the same relationship only in the same way, and that is exactly what we are making with this proposal. On the other hand, of course, we are saddened by the fact that opposers, or some individuals, do so in their own way and spread some belief that tomorrow will be different. Tomorrow the world won't end. All those already living in a marriage or in an extramarital relationship will also be living in exactly the same relationship tomorrow. Our proposal does not take anything away, we do not take anything away from those who already have rights today, we are simply expanding the pool of these rights, we are only granting or recognizing rights to those to whom we are depriving them today. So I think it's worth stressing. These rights have been unduly denied for a long time, and I will respond later on to some of the allegations that have been made so far. As far as the amendment is concerned, I think it is enough to add that the only possible extension of human rights is one that is total, which is totally inclusive, but not to agree that only part of the rights are determined by certain specific regulations, but not by an integrated one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I know it's a wish to apply. Please sign up for the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u93	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! New Slovenia certainly wants to regulate the status of same-sex communities. New Slovenia was also the one because in 2005 our minister proposed the Law on Registration of Same-Sex Communities. The right conservative party and we were hoping to propose this after a long time left coalition failed to do so. We are also those who want to be positive, kind, but also to listen to the problems they face. And whoever thinks this law will solve all their problems, I think he's making a terrible mistake. And just because there is no broader debate on the changes to this law, it will lead us to have a new controversy in Slovenia that this same-sex orientation will not make them more respected and better accepted in society, but talk about many things, which will make them very uncomfortable, difficult and even more difficult to say. I very much wish that the relationship between one or another is as friendly in the country as possible and that it is not discriminatory, but this law will not solve it. And we have already stressed many times that if there is something missing from the Social Rights Act on the registration of same-sex communities, let us arrange this. This has also been imposed by the Constitutional Court's decision to eliminate these social inequalities – and we therefore fully agree and want this to be settled. Why, then, do we need to change the Law on Marriage and Family Relations? For me, this marriage was written for a man, a man, and a woman. And it can't be the same as the relationship between a man and a man or a woman and a woman because that equality isn't because we were created as men and women. And I'm saying that God already knows why he did it to complement us. And there is nothing wrong with it, and no one wants to command anyone to love or to love. Thank God if people love each other and love each other and want to live together and make it legal. But the marriage has so far been a relationship between husband and wife. If we want to clearly define and name all things, then why do we have to name the relationship between two men or two women as something that has already been discussed. This name or this connection is occupied with another community. And I think that's why we don't do anything wrong if we say that it's a partnership community or another community. Marriage is a relationship between husband and wife, and this has been the case for centuries. And under the pretext of equal rights, we want to change it overnight. And even by putting the law into a reduced procedure, it is not possible to discuss it without the amendments being tabled. Why is that? And the Prime Minister of the Government stressed how he is against divisions, how he is going to work for cooperation, how he is going to do for good relations in society. This marriage breaks them again. I therefore propose that we reject this law and encourage the Minister to continue to prepare a proposal for a new Law on the Partnership Community, which she put before the public hearing last year. One month in public hearing, we made proposals, comments, she had every opportunity to move forward with this law and agreed to withdraw it from the procedure and to support this law, which changes the definition of marriage. Why? Is that necessary? I am in favour of continuing with the law that marriage remains a marriage between husband and wife, that same-sex partners get all rights, except the right to adopt children, because a child is no one's right. And if I was thinking for the first moment on my own, I don't care how someone reports or who they are, but I can't say that I don't care. I don't care because I'm a legislator, like all of us, responsible for how these children will live in the future and in what kind of community. And we blind ourselves to how many other countries have already done this, but you know, because such pressures are, just by some well-paid activists, not because it's so humane or so very clever. As far as children are concerned, I know from research that such a community is certainly not the best environment for a child in whom it will feel best. I am not saying that there are other families, that everything is fine, not that I say, but that is not the best environment at all. That's what all the experts know. And that's what the research shows, and we're blind as if that's not true. Look what adults say about their problems. Why do they have them? Because they brought trauma or other from the family, or I don't know what. And it's a lot smaller. But this is a very big intervention, and we're saying it's nothing. This is not true and it is already happening that adult adopted children sue the country if they have been placed in such a community or for some other reason, I have heard in Sweden if other races have been adopted into an environment where they then experience discrimination. I propose that we reject the law that the Minister goes forward with the Partnerships Act, that we regulate all social rights and that we talk more about how to communicate better with each other, respect the difficulties such persons face, what we can do. At the same time, we need another strong debate on what law is, how to encourage such families. Because — why is there so much poverty? It's the broken families. Because even materially in such families, perfect families, it is easier to survive, each of us, not just the children. This is what we need to encourage, what more positive things to do here. And it is not the main problem of our society now to completely equalize both communities. That's not the main problem. And if we're saying that we're going to be in the 21st century now, I regret to say that when I'm trying to make a law about a decent burial, I find that we're not even there in the 20th century.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Before that, my friend said it was a beautiful spring day. It is true and such a spring day can also give birth to a new life, out of love of course, but only in one case, and this is in the case of a union of men and women. In contrast, or in other cases, where two men or two women are joined together, there will be nothing. And then you have to cut into the constitution and say, "My human rights are falling short, I can't have children, I can't have children, I can't have children." I agree, the constitution states that no one should be deprived of human rights no matter what it is or what sex it is, but, look, it's something else. We will be most likely today, so the proposer also said that he was pleased to see, after the opening remarks, that the marriage would be adopted, so we are legislating the marriage of two persons, so now we can have a marriage of men and women, women and women, men and men, and so on, I don't know what else can come out of it. And this is where it ends. And neither the media nor the proposer are talking about any further, I will say about the consequences of the fact that the marriage will now no longer be a relationship between a man and a woman, but two persons, and that the definition of a family is also deleted from the law. When two youths announce at home that they are getting married, of course, parents immediately examine whether it is compatible, whether the groom is good, the bride is good, and, of course, they ask themselves if you know the consequences of the wedding. Did we ask ourselves what the consequences of the new marriage were? I think it's a lot too small, because some people who just wave their hand and say what to get married. I agree. But what are the consequences of the wedding? What are the consequences of the new law? I think that in every law we ask ourselves what the consequences are and what the proposer always writes, the consequences are such and such. And it says here that the consequences are not that there is no effect on other things. I simply cannot agree with this because we heard today, we heard on the Committee and also yesterday on the Human Rights Commission, where, of course, the coalition showed what human rights were for them and apologized in full because it was already a late hour. I think that we, too, need to be aware of what the law is making, to talk about it and, of course, to have a public debate. Of course, colleagues will say, public debates have been inconceivable. Of course, they were and were clearly expressed, then in 2012, although you say it was nothing, then the referendum. I think he said something and two years of difference is very minimal. Adoption of children will be one of the consequences. Adoptions of children to same-sex partners, but they will not be able to adopt parents, this is stated in Article 136 of the Law, which you are amending, nicely states: "It is not possible to adopt a relative at the level of the species and not a brother or sister." So that means that if my three children lose their father and mother now, they can adopt them same-sex, but they can't adopt old parents. Nonsense, I think it's nonsense! I don't know if you think that's normal? This is one of them, I think it's more natural that you're with your parents than that they're adopted by foreign parents. And I'm not just talking about the same-sex people, so no one can tell. Then, I want to know how you're going to solve the 86th article of this law, which reads: "A father born in a marriage relationship or at the age of 300 days after the divorce, is the husband of the mother's mother." You've deleted the word "husband and wife" out. So when a woman gives birth, they don't ask, like they used to, who's the father, but the automatic father is the marriage partner, so husband. When a woman from the same sex is born, who will be the father? A man? Who? A person. What person? Did you read that? That's where the word "man" stays. The following is Article 96 of the same law. Just a moment to find him, where he writes to you: "A husband can challenge the fatherhood of a child born by his wife in a marriage..." What are we gonna do about it? I don't think anyone can answer either, because I think you're the proponents, I don't know about the others, given the way you look at me, and you don't even know it's in this law. The next thing that's running away from me is, I haven't read so much research, but since I have little kids, every day that comes home with questions, I don't know why Micah doesn't have dads or why he lives alone with Mommy. These single - parent children are somehow identified or have problems. That's right. Let's go on Mother's Day. Someone's out of mommy. I think he's pretty sick and other kids look at him when he's six, of course you explain it to him, but the kid understands things differently. [[…]] And they are already discriminated against or somehow branded, and they feel bad. I'm not talking about the elderly. I'm talking about the kids. And children living in same - sex communities — how will they be treated? I always look from that point of view at a child who, of course, will normally say that he has two moms. But how will the children treat him? Maybe we'll be so delirious in those years, for a year, that those kids will understand. But I find that hard to believe. Article 16(4) General Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1948. Article 16 states in the paragraph: "The state is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection." In Article 53, paragraph 3, of our Constitution: "The State protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection." So both the things I've read protect the family, protect fatherhood and motherhood. And we in a country, a society where there's total chaos, where we don't know what's right anymore and what's wrong, where I think all ethical values are collapsing, we're going to destroy another one, and that's the value of family, motherhood and fatherhood. And now it seems like we're going to make an even bigger mess, of course. And with the power of argument, because the coalition has found that it has enough votes and that it is now necessary to do so. It was never good when something with the power of argument was adopted in society. Never. The issues that were with the consensus that had been agreed on went quite differently. I think you should agree here, even if you don't agree with all the other things. The same-sex partners cannot freely decide on the birth of children because they need a third party. Two women need a third person, two men need a third person to have a baby. And yes, I am also dealing with this, of course, Mr Möderndorfer, I think it is necessary to deal with this, not just say, we want to marry two same-sex and solve the matter. No, no, no. I've spoken before — you've been missing — what the consequences are. And that's the consequences of that. I myself advocate the importance of the family of fatherhood and motherhood. Even such a good father, in my opinion, can't replace his mother and vice versa. Since a natural child is looking for a mother in his younger years, he is looking for a father. And I'll tell you a personal case. A five-year-old kid who watched two men kissing on TV – we don't hide it in our home, so that no one thinks I turn off the TV and say, "You can't watch it," and the kid looks and says, "You can't do that." And I didn't teach him about it. And we're actually going to take that right from some kids to their mother and father. Of course, redefining the family also brings changes to the educational system, which some on the committee wanted to deny literally, but when we showed them that they would now learn about the family differently in education programs, there was a lot of excruciating silence and red faces were quite present. I also want to know how they will teach, explain those teachers who disagree. I think it's very difficult, but they'll find their way. I wouldn't do that because I know they'll get along. I want to know if this marriage really makes us do everything for the good of the child. Are we not going to violate Article 56 of the Constitution or are we not already violating it? [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, yeah, we're breaking it because the state doesn't work as hard as we can to protect the kids. [[…]] She doesn't work as hard as she can to protect her family. And we're not doing our best to protect motherhood and paternity. They're already violating children's rights. And now they're going to get even worse. Because we still allow the country to deposit families with small children. We still allow poverty among children to increase. We're still [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'm talking about that right now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u96	Excuse me. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u97	We violate human rights or children's rights. [[…]] That we're already allowing domestic violence. And let me say it again, we're not protecting the children. So, on a topic as important as this law is today, I think that when it comes to redefining the family, it is inappropriate to deal with it in a simplified way, and that the result is that we know what it will be like. I am very sorry and appeal to all those who may still waver and are not yet determined not to vote politically, but to vote as they feel. And without anyone saying that we do not support same-sex communities in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we would not boast, as Mrs Novakova said, in the time of our government, the Law on the Registration of Same-sex Communities was adopted. In 2009, we proposed two amendments to this law, precisely because of this constitutional decision. But it wasn't accepted. It's sad that someone says something about a pay phone, and I don't care, because it's not about me, because it's none of my business. I mean, I'm not gonna take anything either, and I might care, but I'm not. And I don't care what the constitution says, just to save the same-sex. I don't think it's right to say that we don't care what's in the constitution because the constitution says we can't discriminate. Yeah, but then let's not say we don't care what the constitution says. Of course, it's clear that I will not uphold the law. I'll support the amendment. I think that this is also my latest implementation today, given that I have been listening to all the arguments calmly for a few days now, without any big faces and comments, while I could not say otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Vice President. With regard to today's consideration of, I think, a very important law, I would say, a holy law on marriage and family relations, it is right and, therefore, I would procedurally suggest that you warn those who are discussing, speaking and disturbing the debater. In fact, we know exactly that there are two poles, left and right, strongly divided and, of course, very hard to listen to each other. I would therefore suggest that you react quickly and responsibly in the event of personal deficiencies within the parliamentary benches.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I think I've done this before. Mr Jani Möderndorfer was polite and immediately finished. Thank you. Minister Anja Kopač Dark asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Today I have a kind of déjà vu, because the debate and arguments are not significantly different than they were under the family code. We had a general debate. I think it took eight hours. We had, I think, 86 hours of debate on the National Assembly parental committee. We talked for 16 hours about article 3 of the Family Code, which changed the definition of family. I am now hearing the same thing, but it is only Article 2 of the Law, about marriage and family relations, where it speaks only of amending the provisions of the marriage. And we've heard that we're interfering with the definition of family. For 16 hours we discussed the definition of family, article 3 of the Family Code. We almost destroyed the family. Now you're talking about it again, and it's not even the subject of discussion. Marriage is not a definition of family. The marriage is a relationship between two, the family has no legal consequences because it is not defined in any way. We've been saying this for 16 hours, and I don't know how many hours we're gonna be. And the family has not been taught in school for a long time now, nowhere, not by sociologists, no one, the sociology of the family does not speak only of one family – the concept of an imperfect family and a perfect family I have not heard for many years – we are talking about a nuclear family, an extended family, a single parent family and also an same-sex family. So the family is no longer just like you used to say, the chair, yes, even the chair can be pruned, the chair can be a couch, has a different feature, and the family has changed in the history of human development. [[...]] And that's why nothing has failed mankind. Back in the '70s, our peers were called bastards. Why? Because they didn't have a father. Who did this? We've been working. People do it all over again. And it's great that we're all ready to be nice to same-sex couples. It's great that we do this as a society. Because when children are born, if you think it's weird for them, if two people are kissing, male or female, no, that's what we do, adults, in the process of primary socialization, which is crucial. And it happens, of course it does. So we need to especially ask our parents how we view these things. At school, I hear that I have an 8-year-old, my child will never say anything bad to anyone, or have that same-sex opinion, no, because at home he doesn't hear it, because at home we talk about it honestly. So we as a society are ahead of the test of how we can do this, how we're going to do it. Don't bet now that because we're going to discriminate further and further because that's just the way it is. I know, then we could stay as Mrs Kustec Lipicer read, as human rights have gone, we could still stand and women should not sit. Or black people. That's how it goes in the end. I know you think it's corny, I know. I've been listening to all those debates for 100 hours about it. Because I know it's a different concept, and I know it's not because you think you're against it, and I know you believe it, and I know that your family is just a man, a woman and a child. I understand that. I'll take it. With arguments in the past, we may have wanted to reduce this fear, especially through the various research we have explained, with different opinions, but we have not been successful. You also need to know that the family code, the original version that went to the National Assembly, was exactly the same. The marriage was defined as a relationship between two adults. We then listened to arguments, we wanted to make the law, that there would not be so much opposition, we agreed to say, okay, marriage – let's leave that name because it means so much. And we have changed and called this community a partnership community, but we have equalized our rights to each other. Except for one. There, too, we listened to arguments, fears and, in order to ensure a wider social acceptance, we also excluded in adoptions the right to put the same-sex partners in line to ask for adoption. But no, in the debate, if you ask a citizen and a citizen today, most of them will say that the family code fell because it allowed adoption. That's not true. That's a lie. It was then, and it's today. Even before the family code, the Supreme Court ruled that biological parents must have the right to adopt another child, and that is why the decision was issued and children are now adopted into same-sex partnerships, even before the adoption of the family code. So everything you say isn't true. And second. Let's go in one order. You reject this because you say that the solutions proposed are contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution. This does not stipulate that a marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman, but that it is based on the equality of spouses, that it is concluded before a competent authority and that legal relations are governed by law. And yet another very subtle thing is: The Constitutional Court's judgment you keep saying that the Constitutional Court has said that it is a similar relationship. No, it's not. The Constitutional Court has said that this is "in the essential same, real and legal basis of living communities". The Constitutional Court didn't say anything like that. That's what you said in the amendment's explanation. That's just not true. And the European Court of Human Rights has already adopted the view that it belongs to the concept of family life, Article 8, which is created by close personal ties between partners, as does the diverse partner community in the same situation, a stable de faceto partnership. We can talk a lot more about what someone said or what they didn't say. Look, even when we were preparing the Law on the Partnership Community, because you are asking me to continue this, you will not believe, although we have clearly written down that it does not apply to adoption, that we have clearly written that it does not apply to fertilization with biomedical aid, the last day that the law was in public debate, we have received more than 150 emails of identical content to the Ministry, such as not knowing the consequences of the law, so that we do not know which areas it will reach in the curriculum and that we will not wake up again after tomorrow. I really don't know what else. We tried to unite society, to unify it, so we also went to the Proposal for a Partnership Law because I know it's easier, but it wouldn't be easy for us there either. And we just can't explain how, when you have a right to marry, you have a right to marry. [[…]] It's a thing between them. It is right that he has this right primarily because of relations, because if you do not allow him to do so and you do not equalize those rights, you are actually treating him the same way simply because of his sexual orientation. So this is contrary to the Constitution, to what we are, Article 14 of the Constitution. But the fact is, and here I agree with you that there is no right for anyone to adopt a child. None. Not me, not you, not no one, not an same-sex partner, nobody's right. It is always a child's right to be adopted into a community that is best for him. So this spouse will be able to get into a line of adoption if the two sexual-oriented reports, if you want to adopt a child, but that doesn't mean that all these circumstances will be analysed, no child will be given a day because I don't know what's going to happen because he's just getting in line. These things are always taken into account. And in the family code, for example, then because of these fears, we also gave the opportunity to object, and then we gave the opportunity for the old parents to participate and all that. But you know what? That wasn't enough either. We were still going to the referendum. I don't think it's possible to compromise. Personally, as Minister, I don't know what you might be able to accept on your right because neither was the ZPS. However, if we are talking about the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership, it is necessary to say, yes, indeed, it has been accepted by Minister Janez Drobnič, then the law has been passed which speaks of you registering as a car in an administrative unit which has clearly measured what rights the majority wishes to give to a merciful minority. And this marriage has been challenged twice in the Constitutional Court. And the fact is, the Constitutional Court has judged the issues that have been raised and has never fully judged. And we, as a society, can decide to let a minority go to the Constitutional Court for each individual right. Is this the role of the rule of law? Yeah, I don't know, it's not my opinion that you have to go to the Constitutional Court for every right, then the Constitutional Court will tell you that your constitutional rights have been violated. I wish we could do it as a society. And it saddens me, I'd much rather have consent today and say, look, the warnings are such and such, be careful, we'll monitor this, but as a society we can do it. In Spain, there were big debates, France, we all followed these debates, the day after that – nothing like this happened. Today, in Spain, the right-wing government has not changed the law, because they have found that these adoptions are not much. Even when we were preparing the family code, I was talking to the secretary of state in Great Britain, where the Ministry of Health covers this area, and I asked how it is with you. And she said, there's no problem, because in most cases they actually adopt same-sex partners of children that others don't want, infected with AIDS and other troubled children. In fact, we do not have a problem as a country, because otherwise we should take care of these children. Well, in all the countries that have introduced it, they don't see the problem. But the fact is, whether we adopt this law or not, it's happening between us and the same-sex families, whether we want it or not, how we feel about the family, what we want it to be, what we think our family is. It is. But probably no one who doesn't have sex is going to decide on this law now that I'm going to be a gay or a lesbian and we're just going to do it. I mean, it's really just one purely basic civilizational quest. And even with respect to the OBMP, that was also a lot of debate. The OBMP sets out its law in Articles 3 and 5, it speaks of the beneficiaries who they are, and there it makes it very clear that it is a husband and a wife and that it is a medical indication. I am not excluding, perhaps there will be another debate in the National Assembly on the amendments to this law, but today it is not necessary to open all this up at this point because it has nothing to do with what we are saying today and is the subject of discussion. However, the Constitutional Court will also rule because it has an opinion as to whether single women have no right to be fertilized with biomedical aid, unlawful or unconstitutional. So they're gonna do their job. I would like everything for us as a society, but especially for our children, because when you ask children, it is very interesting that in most cases, there are some results of a study that in schools in about 89% of young people say that they are either gay or not talking about it. Then, I mean, 29% said that sometimes teachers mentioned the way. Even changing the curriculum will probably be as well written in the Journal today, when Ranka Ivelja and Blaž Petkovic asked experts from these areas, the Dean of the Faculty of Education made it clear that there is no need to change anything, the marriage will be defined differently, where you are referring to the law, this article, and this is it. The definition of family remains the same, motherhood the same, parenthood the same. But there's something else that's really bothering me, and maybe I could share it with you. When the problem was that it was going to be parent one, parent two. This is the central register of the population, and then it is as if motherhood and fatherhood would be evaluated. See if I'm written there that I'm parent 1 or parent 2 is completely irrelevant, I'll be mom no matter what happens, what it says in some register. And it's not the law that guides these basic human values. And that's generating fear that has nothing to do with it. I really hope to end this 2009 debate, so many hours of debate, let us today, please confirm this law, that we can move forward and that we can see that tomorrow we will wake up in a day that will be exactly the same today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Chairman. Otherwise, the second part of the debate could be listened to, but the first part of the debate was used literally for sawing and I ask the President to draw attention to this in the future, not just to Members in the Chamber. Nor did we squander to ministers when we had to amend the Foreigners Act simply because its ministry did not adopt the law in due time. Therefore, I really ask that, despite the heavy matter that we are dealing with today, we simply show some dignity, saying, without insulating each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Today is a novel of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which also regulates the equal status of same-sex partners. Since there has been a lot of intolerance lately, I have read a lot of discussions and I would like to draw attention to the changes that have taken place in the past, how they have also been adopted. Recall how early last century, with the election rights of women. Even then, opposers said that this was contrary to nature and God’s order. Do we imagine today that women would not have the right to vote? Were we able to imagine that in 2013, out of 21,000 children born, half of them were born to single mothers? Some of you certainly remember and know how stigmatized and ridiculed an illegitimate child was? Today, the situation is completely different. Whether parents are married or not, whether they live together or not, there is a clear consensus today that the child is not different. Can you believe that it was ever different today? I don't think so. I also hope that today, with the support of the new law, we will no longer be paying attention in time. So life goes on. Society's changing, and we have to follow it. They were same-sex communities, they are, they will be. Well, whether we want it or not. Among us are lesbian and gay couples, registered or unregistered, without children, with a biological offspring of one of the partners, with adoptive parents. And they'll keep going. And we're not gonna stop it. Life just finds its way. With this law, we just want to recognize equality for people. The husband and wife will be no less husband and wife, and the family will be no less family. So far, scientific research has not supported the belief that children need parents of both sexes to develop in a coherent manner. Most of the studies analysed show that families with two dedicated and loving parents, regardless of their sex, offer a favourable environment for their development, including one or more parental families. So a healthy development of a child in a family requires love, warmth at home, a sense of security and understanding among partners. It is true that the social environment in which children grow up in families with same-sex partners is not entirely identical to the social environment in which children grow up in families with partners of different sexes, but scientific knowledge shows that their development in no key respect is different from the development of children growing up in families of different sexes. Studies also show that children of different and same sexes in terms of developmental deficits, such as anxiety, depression, self-image, social adaptability and similar aspects, do not differ. Experts also note that biological or blood connections are not a prerequisite for establishing a strong visa between parents and children and for their emotional well - being. Financial well-being also has a positive impact on children’s development. In my environment, I would like to remind the community of two registered ladies who are very well placed and who would like to adopt a child. Perhaps a child living in poverty today does not necessarily come from Slovenia. And maybe these two ladies would raise him through all the doctrines and this child would have, believe me, everything, loving parents and, we won't say that he wouldn't have another sex in his neighborhood, because these two women also have their parents, father, mother, aunt, uncle, a wider environment where he could also identify with another sex. Empirical studies consistently show that same-sex parents have the same parental skills and competence as parents of different sexes. When viewed strictly methodologically, according to some criteria, investing in parenthood and parental skills, two women on average play the same good parenting role as men and women in the traditional division of parental roles. Empirical research also shows that if their parents are also same-sex, they are married, as this represents a more stable environment and a smaller stigmatisation of children. It is true, however, that such families often face problems of a legal and discriminatory nature caused by an incomprehensible wider environment. As regards the environmental attitude towards same-sex families, the proposed code poses a major challenge to Slovenian society. In Slovenia, all employees pay taxes. These taxes also include compensation for parental care. This means that all homosexuals pay contributions while they have no right to use it. Nor can a homosexual couple benefit from the right to maternity leave and paternity leave, each of the partners doing something because certain rights are not transferable. But the law provides for a mother and a father, not two partners. So homosexuals have obligations, but not rights. As we have already heard, the 2005 law governs registered same-sex partnerships. It provides partners with a limited number of rights and obligations which mainly relate to their relationships: the right to subsistence and subsistence, the right to acquire common assets, the right to housing, the right to inheritance and the right to obtain information on the health status of the affected partner and visits to health homes. Imagine living together two women or two men who have an adopted child, a biologically adopted child from their partner, a child who is sick and has no right to go to the hospital to ask what it’s like to have a baby. We have heard that the biggest questions now are about adoption of children. It is misunderstood that adoptions of children in a homosexual community will now take place right after the current lane. This will not be because the adoption institute is intended to continue with the children. Adults do not have and will not have the right to adopt a child, they can only run in the process of obtaining a candidate for adoption. This means an administrative procedure at the Centre for Social Work, which examines the legal conditions and other conditions, i.e. social workers assess the appropriateness of adopters, the possibilities of motive, expectations and personality. Last year, the center accepted about 580 applications from foster parents, and only about 40 were adopted. And if the same-sex partners adopt a child out of poverty, as I have already said, whether from the Middle East or the Far East, which is hungry today, they will do much. Dearly beloved, the Social Democrats will certainly support this law because we believe it is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Let me start very simply, no arguments, with a story. This story is the story of my dear friend, who allowed me to tell her here today; it is a woman who I highly respect both on the professional side and because she has a great heart. A while ago at her birthday party, she suddenly got up and said, "Dear friends, coworkers, I want to let you know that my son is gay." I don't know how long she's been hiding this inside of her, but I believe it's been a long time, because, you know, moms we know fast. And then I asked myself, what if this happened to me, today we can ask ourselves, what if this happened to any of us? For she said that she wished for him to be able to live in a free world where he and all his rights would be respected equally. Over the last days and hours we are Members of Parliament, how much of the pressure on the minority, while the real minority of the nemo waits, stands and trembles, perhaps what will happen today and also tomorrow, most of the pressure on the other minority, it is on the Members. One worthy of another here unworthy. This only strengthens my conviction that I will truly vote in my conscience, because today I will represent the position and rights of the minority. It was written in 1976 when the Law on Marriage and Family Relations currently in force was adopted. I find that the legislation has indeed not followed society, even less so for 40 years. Perhaps some Members just remember what happened in 1976. The other one you're sitting here, you don't remember anything. Yes, I will not explain what has changed since 1976, these 40 years, including the fact that, as has been said, only a dozen newborns have been born in a marriage relationship, and today it is like half. Yes, so it is already a decline in the social concept of marriage as a ritual, and life is no longer based on the hierarchy between the sexes. Here I can say that one of my children was born like this, in an extramarital relationship and thank God, the law has already equalized the marriage and extramarital community, which for centuries has been prohibited, since World War II. As a result, women were even expelled from society, from the family. Do we really have to rely on the tradition of the centuries today? Yes, as far as I can remember my young age from those 1970s, that is, 40 years after the adoption of this law on the equalization of marriage and extramarital relations, I do not believe that society has really adopted this law at that time, because marriage is one thing, society is another. There were many comments at the time and later. Once again, this step must be taken and society must move forward with time. The fact is, today, young mothers no longer need to be ashamed of how and when and where they gave birth to their children in terms of connection, and even less that one of us lived and still lived in a single - parent family, which was a taboo back in the 1970 ’ s, in 1976, when this law was passed. I can assure you that because I remember those stories of moms who had illegitimate children who lived in a single - parent family. At that time, the children were vehemently recited "What did you need, child dear, child beautiful"? And I wonder if we were aware then of the depths and verses of Prešern, what he was experiencing when he wrote them. Were we aware of the depths of the book, taking Voranco, yes, from Samastnikov, from the picture, you won't believe it, from the book and the film that I saw as a young girl at the time, now that I'm watching this debate, they've come back to me. Young Meta, her nine children, a forbidden relationship, everything she suffered for love. We probably don't want this just because of the tradition of the centuries. So 40 years after this law, after a century, according to Voranco, I don't know if we're still talking about a different traditional life than injustice. Do we know what the writers were trying to tell us at the time? I'm not sure. So today, let us think of reorganized families, nuclear families, single parent families, extended families, foster families, foster families, including the same-sex families that are here, who are and will be. Here and now. Not today, nor tomorrow do they threaten happy traditional families who have not been given them. However, they have an irregular legal status duly regulated by the family code, which has already been mentioned several times in the solutions proposed but unfortunately rejected in the referendum. Today, the facts show themselves again in reality, and something that exists, maybe it comes like a boomerang, you know, but what you do before you close your eyes usually comes back like a boomerang, even worse than you expected. Yes, Slovenia has an explicit family policy, the basis of which is the resolution on the basis of the family policy. This one is already over 18 years old, and it is out of date, and it is not yet being realized. On the one hand, I can understand this happening today and all this time because we are talking about values. But the values are a set of beliefs, beliefs about yourself, about others, and about the world around us. Unfortunately, values and our beliefs are not always the reality. French writer Katherine Pancol says: "It is necessary to be open without prejudice. Prejudice is blocking. Only openness is the way forward to change." And I add, only openness is the way to accepting everyone, it's the way to equality and it's the way to freedom. And respectable! Like the minister said, you know, children are born without prejudice. They are pure in thinking, feeling, and openness to world and diversity. We tell them that the chair is to sit and spoon to eat what is natural and what is not. and the child feels fast. And only one thing matters to children is that they're loved. The only thing that matters to partners is that they are loved, respected and accepted. What a family is as a form, children really don't know, but they know what a family is like content. And now another story that happened recently, some houses away from me, in a traditional family between a man and a woman with three children who were left alone in the final rerun of this story. Is that family? Does anyone wonder what kind of trauma they've been experiencing all this time in this family? Love is not real and love is not math. We can multiply it, share it, count it, but we can never take it away, so it is important that we today support this novel for all whose voice is weak but deserves the same rights as the voice of the majority. So let's also grant rights to couples who don't have it, like the others. None of us lose anything with that. Many, however, gain much. I therefore appeal to the Members to consider this today. Today is such a debate when I believe that everyone will vote in his/her conscience. I would also like all 90 Members to vote to imagine what we are giving today and what we are losing because it is time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! This morning, when I arrived at work, I was in a mailbox similar to you, probably waiting for some 486 mails that urged us to save the family, save the Slovenian nation from the fall and warn that the old Greek and Roman empires had collapsed because of the law we are adopting today. This has also somehow encouraged me to think, like the ministers before, that in the public debate about what is actually being adopted today, there has been a major misunderstanding or disagreement, if such panic reactions are possible, and that is why I will use the first introductory speech to explain once again exactly what exactly is what we are accepting today. Today, we do not change anything other than Article 3 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, in which the formulation: "marital union is a community of men and women" is replaced by the formulation "marital union is a community of two people". So the word husband and wife is replaced by the words of two people. That's all. We're not taking anything, we're just thinking about justice for those who don't have it yet. In this way, the problem of discrimination between same-sex couples, which has dragged on in Slovenia for decades, is being addressed in an elegant and simple way. With this simple change, same-sex couples finally acquire the economic, legal and social rights that belong to marriage, including the right to health insurance by partner, the right to compensation for income for the care of a family member, the right to absence from work if the partner is sick, and, of course, the opportunity to run for adoption of a child. In addition, this change eliminates the unconstitutional situation in Slovenia. Article 14 of our Constitution provides that everyone is guaranteed the same human rights regardless of his nationality, race, sex, language, religion or any other personal circumstance. One of these circumstances is sexual orientation. And so far, the regulation in Slovenia has discriminated more than clearly against people because of sexual orientation. By today’s adoption of the amendments to the law that was written in 1976, as we have heard before, we are finally removing this unconstitutional situation and we are bringing Slovenia closer to the standards that are in force in the 21st century. Similar solutions are in force in 11 European countries and 37 United States states. And the effects are very positive everywhere. Nowhere has the end of the world happened, from which some warn us. In this light, I am truly surprised by the moral panic caused by some religious communities and political initiatives. Yesterday, in the radio show Studio will listen to the disastrous scenarios that this law would lead to the firing of Christians from the public sector, the establishment of ethical groups of commissions that would pursue otherwise thinking and somehow get the feeling that they want to convince us that we are pushing the way of some kind of Orwell totalitarianism that we could read in his book 1984. On behalf of the proposer, i.e. the United Left, I would like to reiterate this point and ensure that in the proposed amendment of the law it is nothing more than that the formulation of "the marriage is a community of men and women" is replaced by the formulation "the marriage is a union of two persons". It is easy to eliminate discrimination in this area, and this is also the only purpose of the novel. I am pleased that today, in Parliament, a large majority is made up of both the coalition and the opposition, which is aware of these injustices and is prepared to be eliminated. The right-wing third of Parliament, which still defends and discriminates against existing legislation, I call on it not to be subject to moral panic, but rather to follow the example of the conservative prime minister of Britain, David Cameron, who said: "I support the equality of same-sex couples, not even though I am conservative, but precisely because I am conservative." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister and colleague and colleague! I'll first touch what the minister was saying. Madam Minister, you have read Article 53 of the Constitution of Marriage and Family, but you have not turned your back if you have our Constitution, the next page where it continues and where paragraph 53 of Article 53 of the Constitution states that "the State protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth, and creates the necessary conditions for this protection". You only read the first two. And I'm saying that the sheet has to be turned around and you have to look at it from the other side, and it's still writing about it. The Constitution states that "the state protects the family, motherhood, paternity and children". I have to respond to this. We're not lying. Madam Minister, I would expect correctness on your part, but since you are a minister, and we are lying when we point out that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has a decision, but now I have seen how many of you, which some of my fellow Members have computers, go to the Constitutional Court's website, because I will now repeat decision 425/06, nor do I have to print that on 2 July 2009, where it is written, has not repealed the ZRIPS, but has decided that it is inconsistent with the Constitution only Article 22. Look at the article at 12. Article, paragraph, in this paragraph, and it is explicitly stated, "the registered partner community is a relationship which, according to the content, is similar to that of a marriage or an extramarital community. It is also an essential feature for the community, a stable link between two people close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other." And the rest. But, I mean, I want to prove it, we're not lying. Here I have an open "registered partnership is a relationship which, according to the content of a similar marriage or an extra-marital community", we have not lied. That the words "lie" come out of the Minister's mouth, I don't think I'm going to comment on that very much. [[…]] Adoptions, you said, are not really going to be adopted. In the same breath, you say there will be no adoption, but they will have the opportunity to line up. I don't know now, there's a chance you can win, but it doesn't mean you win. Oh, my God. I don't know. Next thing I know, Madam Minister, what's on the birth certificate, under now, where it says mother, father, what happens now, person 2, person 1? Are we going to find out about paternity? Will this result in a greater understanding of paternity? I'm thinking. You say I have phobias. I'm asking you nicely, what phobias. Yesterday I was sitting with a guy who's a psychologist who works inside the Legebitra, and I didn't have any phobia, and we had coffee together, and we talked about discrimination. He said that if this law was adopted, it would eliminate discrimination. You know how heartwarming I want him to feel the way everyone else does. I don't know. I don't feel like he's different. People have problems with themselves. By accepting it, by accepting it around the society, because they think they're all evaluating it. You know how, sometimes – well, well, please, come on! What kind of things? If this law eliminates discrimination, will these people feel normal? I asked him, he said, "Yes, this marriage will end this." I said, "Really?" "Yes, because you're going to be able to teach your kids at school that they won't look at their classmates differently if they have two fathers." I said, "Do you have kids? Do you have small children there, 5 to 7 to 10 years old? What are we looking at? Children are very honest, very emotional, very rude at the same time. Very rude." You know what comes, what brings time when someone doesn't have a Nike super and I don't know what we've had here? They can be very rude, and they can be very exclusive. Just because someone wears glasses, children in their class can turn off their classmates or schoolmates. And you say that this marriage will not happen. Do you understand what kind of society we are despite such a law? Where, who will, or will parents then be called upon to provide training and extra hours of training so that children may be miseducated? No, no, no, no, I think our concerns are purely concrete, justified and realistic for this time in this society. I would just add that, the Society of Psychologists of Slovenia or Mr. Janek Musek – where were you last night?Oh, my God! There's nowhere to go. You don't care. If we wanted to have a clean debate, we would have had and discussed on the Equal Opportunities Committee yesterday. That's all I want to say is what's highlighted. Marine Rupp: "Children from same-sex communities feel more discriminated against than children from a heterosexual community." That's what I'm trying to say, that's what international research has shown and with all your emotions, please give it to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you very much. About some of the facts will be identified by Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u113	Your Honor! I have a decision before me, and like 2010 and 2010 onwards, when we've discussed it, it's kind of about what the point of the sentence is read. Point 12 and 13. The 12th point, which is most relevant, says in the first sentence: "We talk about discriminatory treatment when a country (on the basis of personal circumstances) treats individuals differently in equal situations". Here the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that they have been treated unevenly. And then he says, "If the positions we're comparing aren't essentially the same, we can't talk about unconstitutional discrimination." So if something's not the same, we don't have to talk about discrimination. Therefore, the interpretation follows if they have found discrimination that situations are the same. And he says at the point that it's similar, in the third, fourth sentence of the 12th point. But the key is the 13th point, which summarizes the 12th point, where it speaks of discrimination and how the Constitutional Court understands discrimination. In view of all of this, in the essential same factual and legal basis of the living communities, both the registered same-sex partnerships and the community between women and men, it turns out that the distinction in succession arrangements is based not on some real non-personal, non-personal and non-personal circumstances but on sexual orientation. It makes it very clear that the living community is the same between the two. And on that basis, the Constitutional Court is clear that you can't say they're the same. These are concepts, since we have sent you an answer on equality and equality, this is also an explanation for all of us when we are talking about gender equality. Equality is not equality. And even in this case, it is not about equality, but it is equality in terms of rights and duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would also very much like to thank all those who sent me e-mails, there were over 100 e-mails calling on me to vote against this law. I respect the voter opinion, they can have it, but I also have an opinion, and I can't accept it because it's different from theirs. Now I'll explain why. We talk a lot about the concept of discrimination, and it might be good to say what discrimination is. This was taught by my son in the fifth grade of elementary school, about which I taught students of international law in college; so we can help ourselves with the definition of one of the international instruments relating to discrimination by definition of the Convention on the Prohibition of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, but the definition is the same, the circumstances are only different. Thus, the expression discrimination under this Convention, of which Slovenia is also a Party, means "any distinction, exclusion, restriction or prioritisation on the basis of any personal circumstance which is intended or has a real effect in preventing or denying anyone for the equal recognition, enjoyment or exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural and every other area of public life." So that's discrimination. The prohibition of discrimination is one of the fundamental norms of international law that has been established in the long process following World War II. Why? Above all, because in World War II human rights were massively violated, we know what was happening when one common thought was more valuable than the other, and what was happening in World War II. So, after World War II, a body of international human rights law was formed. And under this international law, the scope of the specific circumstances under which discrimination is prohibited is increasing. The prohibition of discrimination is thus enshrined in international instruments, we have listed them earlier, United Nations documents, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights, on Economic and Social Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights. The prohibition of discrimination, of course, was passed on to our constitution, in 14. The article we are talking about, which is the first article in the chapter of our Constitution, which opens the chapter on fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms. On the basis of the Slovenian Constitution, we have also said this many times today, discrimination is prohibited on the basis of any personal circumstances. And one of these circumstances is sexual orientation. It has been found, in many studies, that the existing legal system does not provide equal opportunities for same-sex partners in the Slovenian legal order. Yes, there is a law on the registration of the same-sex partnership community, but it has not completely equalized the possibility of same-sex communities, which is so much more applicable to unregistered partnerships. All that is to be achieved by this amendment of the law is that these options are equal. The very definition of this law on the registration of the same-sex legal community is, in my opinion, discrimination, because, as has already been mentioned, and I hope that it will be mentioned again, you cannot register the partnership community as if you were registering a car. This registration itself means different treatment and discrimination. We have also mentioned several times that, therefore, the real equality of the same-sex community in Slovenia is not that there are many laws in which partners of same-sex communities cannot exercise their rights in the same way as husband and wife in the same-sex community as defined in the Marriage and Family Relations Act. For example, the Bond Code — the right to compensation in the event of death or the severe disability of a family member is limited to spouses, extramarital partners, children or parents of the deceased, and not to the same - sex partner. The Housing Code – the definition of narrower family members for the purposes of this law only mentions the marriage and extramarital partner, not the registered or unregistered sex partner. The Health Care Act – the employee and the unregistered same-sex partner does not have the right to leave work due to the illness of the partner and the right to compensation for income for the care of the family member. There are a lot of these laws, a lot of laws that talk mainly about a marriage partner, an extramarital partner, possibly about a registered one, or all of these concepts are mixed and therefore partners in the same-sex partnerships are in an unequally basic position and are therefore discriminated against. Let me repeat what I said on the committee, because it repeats itself repeatedly, yes, and now most are discriminated against. Most cannot be discriminated against by nature. The meaning of the prohibition of discrimination is precisely to ensure the protection of the rights of a group of people who are in a minority and who are, because of some personal situation, such as disability, age, gender, anything, sexual orientation, can be discriminated against because they do not have that tool, there is no majority who decide what rights some communities will be recognised. Most of them have the power to take decisions that are in their favour through Parliament through the authorities representing the decision-making authorities. It is therefore necessary to protect the rights of persons in a deprived situation, not the protection of the majority. Let us once again understand this concept of what protection of rights means. And the protection of human rights is the protection of rights in relation to the State, individuals and groups in relation to the State. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that the issue that we are discussing today, which we are going to decide about, is very important, because it means a shift in some thought and at the very beginning of the regulation of protection against discrimination. Today, and as before, on the Committee on Labour, Social and Family Affairs, we will decide whether we will indeed be a democratic country and we will also ensure equal opportunities for partner same-sex communities or will still have to register and still have fewer rights than the partners in the marriage community, as now defined in the law in force. If we choose the first option, we will join the advanced democratic states. If we choose this option, it is also important that I highlight something. If we choose the first option, so we vote in favour of the law and against the amendments, we choose, in fact, to fulfil the obligation, the legal obligation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a party to international instruments, to international treaties setting out obligations for the protection of human rights. I have already mentioned the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the same Article is in the International Covenant on Economic and Social Rights, which provides in the second paragraph of Article 2 that each State Party to the Covenant is obliged to take urgent measures in accordance with its constitutional procedures and the provisions of this Covenant in order to adopt such legal or other measures as may be necessary to exercise the rights recognised in this Covenant. This pact provides for a prohibition of discrimination. Our obligation under international law, not only through our Constitution, and international law is part of our internal law, read Article 8 of the Constitution, we have an obligation to ensure proper implementation of the prohibition of discrimination. Under the third paragraph of that Article, the Parties must ensure that, inter alia, the competent authorities and any other bodies decide on the rights of the person lodging the complaint and must also develop the possibilities for judicial protection. In short, to the fullest extent at all social levels, the State is obliged to provide protection against discrimination to those who may be discriminated against with equal baselines. And there's nothing else we can guarantee. We don't want to support if we support this law. I agree with the bill's proponents that if we adopt this law, we will enter into the 21st. The century, and that's why I think the amendments have to be rejected. As far as one personal note is concerned, what is the difference? I think it's actually one learning lesson, but we're actually able to accept the difference. You know, I have twins. My daughter is very hurt and goes to a special school and my son goes to a regular school. And they're like, "Yeah, your sister's going to Gustav Shilih. The child comes home crying. And then I'd say, yes, and this is such a terrible society. But I am a parent who realizes that it is a process, that it is also a process of accepting differentness, disabled people and children with special needs, a process in which we all participate, that we need to start somewhere, and that I need to teach my child that he has such a sister and that he also accepts that his classmates may not accept it, but that he can explain to them that he is different and that they are trying to somehow understand each other and accept each other. So that's not the only reason for discrimination. I think that this is the first step in the process of accepting diversity, one of the differences, and that as a society we have to make an effort to start accepting this diversity, not just looking for what it can bring us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you, colleague Jasna, for the excellent point. In fact, I have two school-bound kids myself, but I have to say that none of them would have thought of screwing with her kids and making fun of whether or not the neighbor's kid has the right kids. Why? Because I raised them like that. Because it is up to parents to raise their children so that they do not do such things, that they are tolerant, that they are open, that they accept all forms of difference. It's on my parents. Kids don't have a problem with that. So much for a start. Now I will read the chapter of the coalition agreement, which is called "Policy of Equal Opportunities for All" and contains the following statement, which, in my deep conviction, I truly agree: "The elimination of all kinds of discrimination and the establishment of zero tolerance for homophobia and all forms of intolerance. On the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we will proceed to eliminate the systemic discrimination of same-sex partners and same-sex people." Thank you, United Left, for helping us do this. As for the reduced procedure, which appears as an obvious all the time, I would say the following. The Constitutional Court has already ordered the legislature to abolish unconstitutionality twice and therefore a reduced procedure is allowed. The amendment of the law regulates social and economic rights and public debate has been taking place since the end of the 1980s. We have heard the Minister, in the past over 100 hours have been held to discuss all the arguments for and against which they have not changed at this time and are still exactly the same. The proposal for this novel is consistent with the Constitution and eliminates discrimination in this area. Moreover, history teaches us that human rights are universal and are always bound to be tried by a minority. So, always in the history of mankind, a minority struggled to enforce certain rights that it had not before. And it is time that the injustices of this minority, which in Slovenia, according to some estimates of about 100,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, begin to be eliminated. The purpose of this change is, therefore, not to take rights, but to give them, to spread them. Most of the rights will not change in anything, they will not be deprived of anything, but at the same time the minority will not give any more rights than everyone else has, as colleague Möderndorfer would say, we will put them at a zero point, as we all have. For these are the rights that are important in the everyday life of men and that most of us seem to be self - conscious. Maybe we don't even know them. And a minority is deprived of it. I am pleased that, in the course of this debate, we have jointly identified all the members of this Assembly, despite the different starting points when it has been argued that there is no such discrimination. Allow me to briefly list some of the social rights that same-sex couples do not have today, despite what the colleague said they have obligations and duties. So they have no right to absence from work due to illness of the partner or partner, they have no right to compensation for income for the care of the family member, they have no right to health insurance per partner, they have no right to enter into a contract with the surviving spouse of the tenant or tenant, in the event of death or severe disability of the partner or partners, they have no opportunity to request material compensation for the mental pain they may experience in such cases, as may be required by the spouse or the heterosexual partner or partner in an extra-marital relationship, and they could also, in fact, be listed. With regard to the evidence of the evaluation of the importance of marriage and family, as already mentioned by colleagues in the United Left, the amendment amends only the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which states that from now on the life community is understood as a living community of two persons. Article 2 of the Act, which provides that "the family is a living community of parents and children who benefit from special protection" shall not change. The family will remain the same and will continue to enjoy this special protection. If I reconnect with our children and the evidence of learning plans and so on. According to the curriculum, the professional council decides and not the legislator, so there is some direct link between what we are going to do here today, I hope, and there are no curricula. The objective of the public school is certainly objectivity, criticality and plurality. Objectivity means that the transfer of knowledge to which science has come is also presented to our children. Plurality, however, is presented in a variety of opinions where there is no agreement in society. Criticism also means being critical of homophobia and discrimination. In her discussion, Collegiate Novakova stated that we should not be blinded by the law to eliminate all their problems. So, the problems of this minority we're talking about today. Here I have to agree, of course, we will not solve all their problems, but we will eliminate many of them, the most important ones and those that are the basis for further their problems. As for the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community here, I must agree with the Minister's statement and the reference of colleague Murgel. I also find this law discriminatory, even humiliating. From my point of view, it is possible to understand the purpose of the legislator, namely to regulate the procedures differently from the procedures for the conclusion of the marriage. If I can just list a few cases. Partners wishing to register the same sex community must report their intention to the parent of the administrative unit at least 30 days before the intended registration. There is no requirement for such a period of 30 days in marriage. Why? The registration procedure shall be carried out at a time specified by the Chief of Management within the official hours and according to the possibilities of each administrative unit. I don't know why a partner wouldn't have the opportunity to register communities on the same day and on the same days as it could apply to a marriage, for example on Saturdays. And I wouldn't even let go, there are still marked differences and discriminatory provisions of this law, there are quite a few of them, if anyone wanted to read them, they came to me. We have also said something today about this – the right to adopt. The right to adopt is a term that does not actually exist, and the right to adopt does not exist by parents. And one colleague here has already stated that they will now have the right to request a child. Of course not. These couples will only be given the opportunity, as has already been said today, that together with 572, of which 410 have already assessed their suitability, put into line and the social work centre is the one who will decide individually and only in terms of the benefits and interests and suitability of the couples for adoption. And nothing else. And maybe another observation, you know, teachers in our schools don't agree with much about what they're learning. And I have to say, when I listen to what they talked about at school, I disagree with a lot of things, but they're learning about it, and it's right that they are. It is right that they learn about everything and about everyone and about all equality and about all the differences in the world. As for the adoption of this novel, I would like to thank the Minister for a nice thought when she said that tomorrow will not be the same, but we can make it look better for one group, 100,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u119	Your Honor! Thank you so much for saying that. Something has already been said, we may have been duplicating ourselves in some way, but I think today's topic is still important and it is right to discuss it as much time as possible in terms of getting to what we all want together. In a way, we'd like to compromise. We have yet another set of laws to be passed after a reduced procedure. The difference between many others is that this is an exercise of an extremely sensitive area, which is actually shared by the Slovenian public. There is virtually no compromise in it, despite the fact that citizens are similar to the law, which in some parts even nicer, they rejected at the referendum. With such sensitive matter, you have literally excluded the public or public debate. Many in this point point out that it is unprecedented radicalisation, no dialogue with civil society. You're talking about 21. A century. Your procedure, Your Honor, without public debate, without confronting opinions is just proof that you are pushing us back to the past, where there was no debate at all. I wonder if the progress you're talking about, which, according to the proponents, is the entry into the 21st. For centuries, you're taking the original role of your mother and father. After all, the law does not allow for the adoption of old parents, but allows for the possibility of adoption of children by same-sex partners, even though these children have lived in a completely different environment since then. That is why I am particularly appealing here to my fellow Member and colleagues from Desus, because you are certainly the first to say how strong feelings there are between old parents and grandchildren. Do you think this discrimination is appropriate for the 21st century? Does your 21st century mean you're wiping out the sex? And, if I'm ironic, I won't say hello next time to my colleagues, my fellow Members and Members, but to persons one and persons two. Is this the transition to the 21st century? Although in some way you are trying to focus on rights, freedom, discrimination in all debates, but you cannot change your mother's nature. It can't be changed. Mother is also a mother if the child is forced to live differently because of different circumstances. And the father is the father, even if the child is forced to live in a different family. For there to be no dilemma, two men can be great fathers, even two mothers, but they can't be Mom and Mom and not Dad. You can't change that with any law. Let me remind you that it is the Slovenian Democratic Party that has made important changes in the area of the rights of same-sex couples and the possibility of registering these links. We have also proposed legislative changes to regulate the social status of the same-sex relationship, but it has been rejected. Obviously, those who are struggling to achieve these enforcements, in fact, this social status was not a primary need. Apparently, the ultimate goal is to adopt children. In one way or another, I understand the proponents that have prepared this law, but perhaps it is also a debt, given that their ideologies from the past have persecuted and imprisoned the same sex. However, do not see discrimination today by the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it was said, we were the first to make concrete moves in this direction and allow for an equalisation. Therefore, Your Honor, I somehow reject the debate that we are the ones who are stressing with some fears, or even better yet, that we literally fear what this law brings, and that with it we want to deny rights to same-sex people. But I can tell you for sure and this, as some of you have mentioned, comes into your mailboxes, e-mails, others we have phone calls, debates are on social networks, I can tell you that the public is actually scared or those who have somehow followed these discussions, as it was possible through small screens, to be afraid of the adoption of this law. They're afraid of wiping out the sex. You know, in a way that exploits this debate, in which you want to show the problems and pains of individual forms of the family over time, is somehow based on this bill in today's debate incorrect. I'm sorry if I'm going to be a little rough in the following words, but I feel the same way or the same if I start now unfairly so that your next step in the realization of rights, the right to pedophiles, because you know, if you listen to them, they feel discriminated, too, feel unfree because they feel different because they are different because society doesn't accept them. However, such a debate would be incorrect and I do not want to be incorrect, and with this debate I would also like to invite all those who are incorrect in saying that it is not what it should be, and that discrimination is all that some others disagree with. I do not deny that in individual so-called traditional families there are things that should not have happened. Of course you do. The same in single - parent families. Absolutely. But look, this law doesn't end. Why are you talking today about the horrors that are taking place in traditional families, and you are my proposal to have a broader debate in the National Assembly on domestic violence briefly overrun. Just like you do everything you don't like right now. I am sorry, you know, colleagues and colleagues, that we are not talking today about how to help these families, how to help parents, that they will have the conditions to be able to raise their children, that they will not be forced to decide to give up on their parents because their social status does not allow them to do so. But those who have children do not know what they would put in their mouths. But you know, this isn't a debate for this law today either. You'll accept something you probably don't even know what you're accepting. How this law will be implemented in practice, I ask you. By the way, if my data are correct, we're supposed to have about 40 children for adoption. And there are about 600 adoption seekers waiting for adoption. Does this mean that you will introduce quotas? Why am I saying this? I mean, what are you gonna do if some same-sex couple contests the decision that he's discriminated against, that he's in violation of the law, and what you're still saying because he won't be elected in the process? How are you going to do this? Finally, when I was watching on television one of those who strongly oppose the law, because things are a little more familiar, I am glad that today in the National Assembly we have a lot of experts from this area, of course I am not and therefore I have listened and read a lot, he was talking about a study that was done abroad. It was a study in adults who lived in different forms of the family. Today these people are adults. And the results have shown that you don't want to believe that a traditional family is still the most appropriate family where a child lives with a father and a mother. It's a research that actually says a lot of things. To conclude a few ironically. From now on, we will probably choose sex, because there will be no more husband and wife, person 1 and person 2. Allow me, although the law you are proposing is extremely worrying, how will you proceed with the next election if we are a person 1 and a person 2? Does this mean that you will share the quotas as you imagine? Last but not least, I could be a person one or a person two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u120	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u121	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished present, all others present, including guests on the balcony! Today, the National Assembly has a mouthful of human rights. On the day we mark the 6th anniversary of the discovery of serious crimes, the discovery of crimes in a grave pit, and I hear that word of human justice from those who have repeatedly committed these crimes, do not condemn them or speak of them with a certain measure of criticism or even more to support one proposal that will be in the future before you, which assumes that at least the dead will be buried, the same dead. But you know, talking about human rights only when it suits us is very unfair. Very unfair. More than that, it's unfair deception. And personally, I completely agree. Equal rights must be ensured for same-sex persons, all of them. The same rights. I have no problem with that. However, I have one serious problem, namely the right to adopt a child by same-sex persons. And if you're saying that in this proposal of the novel of the law, you're saying it's not there, that's it. That's what it says. As far as the other injustices you cited, colleagues, the Minister – of course, we must be assured, because the Constitutional Court ordered us to do so. The Constitutional Court ordered us to do so. But you're defending something completely different. And if I am now going to cite the Constitution, what the Minister forgot to say in Article 53 of the Constitution, namely, the bill deletes the husband and wife. It's a line. And he's talking about two adults. So I won't have a wife anymore, no. Mr. Möderndorfer, you won't have a wife, either, as you said before, you'll still have one. No, officially not anymore. But Article 53 of the Constitution says, "the state protects the family, motherhood, paternity." Motherhood, fatherhood. Respectable lawyers from the largest party, that you will not fall again on the test, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia before the Constitutional Court. And that. Before I conclude, I'll leave the rest of my colleagues enough time. Thank you, the biggest coalition party thanks the opposition party, thank you for the law. You're ridiculous! You're funny, because you have a minister who's preparing his own law, which I hope to discuss, even more, I would support him because he doesn't foresee the adoption of children by the same-sex. This is the only place I have this problem with all this. I have a problem with adoptions. Because I can't imagine, and I'm gonna end up here, and I can't imagine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u122	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. In the National Assembly, we have learned several times that some have problems. Now, it's up to us to decide whether we're going to accept having them, or whether we're going to understand them, or whether we're going to accept that they're going to have them, or whether we're going to accept that they're going to have problems sometimes. I hope you asked your colleague Vatovec what is the problem with same-sex partners. You know, everybody's in trouble. Only one difference is: they are not yet in that kind of equal with you, who really have all those rights that they do not have. And that's what we're talking about. Are we today such a mature society that we can take another step forward from all the steps in history that have already been taken? In 1976, I don't know where you were then, but in 1976 we decriminalized gayism in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. That's terrible! When I explain this to my daughter today, she can't even understand that it was true. She doesn't understand that. Even less, her children will understand that it has also been banned or prevented from reporting in the same way as everyone else. But today it's an open topic and it's painful because I believe it won't be a problem. All things in the past have been painful. That's what I was talking about in the beginning. But what is more important to me is, of course, the question of how we accept certain questions that we are opening up in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, I believe that we have reached the point where we can convince ourselves here from morning to evening, and we are talking about which marriage would be better, which way would we go. In fact, it is one purpose: on your part that this is not accepted, more or less you also confirm in your deliberations, and it is ours to enable them to do so. So the moment has come when you simply need to make a czar's cut and step one step forward. I believe that perhaps tonight you will have a bad will, tomorrow you will have new tasks, new obligations and you will deal with another matter and you will no longer be dealing with it, unless you are driven by a force to do more on this subject. Believe it or not, in Nebraska today, a federal court has also confirmed — another state more — that same - sex couples can be reported. Yesterday, I heard on the Human Rights Commission various views on one side and on the other — or more on the other — about what this law entails, the dangers and the consequences that will come. I must say that I was appalled mainly because I even heard from very important intellectuals the following sentence, such as: "The Slovenian nation will die. That is the destruction of the people." It's like they're same-sex couples in most of Slovenia. "Two who are not capable of reproduction cannot be in a marriage." So, according to this logic, a woman and a man who can't have a child can't be in a marriage union. Of course that's not true. That's crazy. But I am simply telling examples of the extremes that some individuals are willing to bring about just to explain and convince the Slovenian public that something terrible is happening, and I am sure that something beautiful is actually happening. Finally, we will be able to remove from the agenda another discrimination that we have in Slovenian society and we do not want to admit it and it is difficult. The representative of the Church explained that if we allow it, there will be no new Christians, taxpayers, and what else I know. In particular, the definition of a family that is very interesting to me – and I will repeat it, given that it was obvious to me that I was getting back to history, how the family came into being. The family, since human origin, has essentially been a multi-definition family. But it is true that since the 5th century onward, the Church has taken over the primacy of setting standards for what the family should look like. Since then, this family has again changed into different forms. The greatest changes took place after World War II, and even more after the 1960 ’ s, the 1970 ’ s. And not only what family looks like, but also roles within this family. And if we're all of these, I'll say, pain and trauma through history, I'm talking about humanity, I believe we're going to take this little step. Therefore, I think it is very important that we look very optimistic in the National Assembly, because, not least, those who follow us and listen to this discussion need to understand that we are not doing this from some malicious and some side stories, but simply because of the fact that Slovenia is rich. Slovenia is a country and a country that recognises the rights of minorities, and in fact it can only be richer and not poorer. However, a country that closes its eyes to minority rights creates additional and additional problems where conflicts and misunderstandings arise, and it is increasingly difficult to explain to its descendants why injustices occur. Of course, what matters to us all is only that the unhappy or those who are dissatisfied with this law are, of course, trying to bring into law or around the law all the impossible and possible things. Look, I'm going to end this, too, and this law will not produce more and more homosexuals and lesbians; it won't, because it can't, because it's never produced anything before. But something else will happen: those who don't want to be exposed today because they fear bullying, labeling, because they know they have no rights, will now be able to step forward. And not least, the surroundings she will meet will see that these are simple people, ordinary people, and that they live a simple life, and that there is no entertainment. Adults who have problems with this most of the time, children are significantly fewer, as children are just taking samples of the elderly, and they will accept the same. Five years from now, I believe everything will be different. It is also true that the same-sex partners with this law will not solve all problems, as the struggle for their rights will only begin with the exercise and exercise of these rights. These problems will also arise in the heads of officials, in the heads of individuals who simply will not accept certain things, and it will take time. And time will show that — and when this evening — the National Assembly will make the right decision and grant that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u124	The word has magic. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! I don't have a problem supporting the amendment of the law. This mismatch needs to be corrected. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert called on Desus to think hard about how we will vote that there is a strong link between grandchildren and old parents. True, I'm an old mother myself, and I hope to be patient or confident. You never know. In all my 50 years of life, I've learned something to never say, and it can't happen to me, and in our family, it can't be that easy! [[…]] And in the event that any of my grandkids will have the same sexual orientation, I will still love him so much, I will still stand by his side, but I don't know how those parents, those old parents, who are sending a huge amount of e-mail today or for fourteen days. I wonder how they will react when this same-sex orientation appears in their home. Will this child, this adult, simply deny it? This has been happening for a long time. But I know there's probably a same-sex orientation since there's a humanity, so we can't deny it. I don't know, I really want to know how those parents or old parents will react. I know I'll do the right thing myself. We need to learn patience. Some of us may be more patient by nature, some less; we must learn and bear this tolerance to our offspring. If the child hears negative thoughts at home, statements from his parents to other thinkers, to other living ones, this intolerance will extend to his children and to his friends, acquaintances. I don't think anyone wants it to be any form of intolerance, it's too much for us. I know a guy who my parents never thought would be in the same sexual orientation. When he discovered himself — it took him a long time to reveal himself — when he revealed himself, he was welcomed home and still stood by him. This boy is very educated, very sensitive, and I don't know why that would characterize him. I judge a man by his character, not by his orientation, faith, or what else. If someone's ready to listen to me and give me the right advice, I don't know why they would reject him for that. There's a lot more in our society. Slovenia has been divided into left and right for a long time. Austria had recently adopted this law, which allows for the same-sex marriage, and is characterized as a very conservative country. However, I have not heard that there would be such serious debates as are now taking place in Slovenia. I don't know. I will always say: Live and let live. Or according to your own words: First sweep before your threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u126	Please, what do you want? The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleague Jenko! I don't know if we've been sitting in the same hall or if it might be a good idea for you to listen to all the discrimination you're stressing, and that's an important virtue. When I called Desus, I told him why I was calling Desus — because the proposed law did not allow the adoption of old parents. It won't! So, I'm going to say as plastic as possible, figuratively, that you'll understand. If tomorrow my child is without me, I am a mother, and without a father, my father, my parents or my husband's parents have no right to adopt, and there is a very strong bond between them. But it's not discrimination, I'm asking you. Isn't that a severe discrimination against children who know their parents, and that will be impossible for them?Oh, my God! However, they may be adopted by an same - sex couple whose family, for example, does not even know the child. That's what I'm talking about! And once again, what you've said about the rights of same-sex women, in fact, it already exists in some way, respected. The Slovenian Democratic Party was the one who proposed the law. We were the first, and you in Desus did not propose such a law, and today you could manifest discrimination and the unequal position of the Slovenian Democratic Party! That's not right. That's not right! 2005 was passed by a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u128	Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to respond to the claim made in today's Journal. I quote: "The novelty restricts and violates the rights of parents to education in accordance with their own ethical and religious beliefs, as this law will change curricula that deny the importance of motherhood and fatherhood." I strongly reject this claim. In fact, the curriculum prepared by the group in question, and endorsed by the Expert Council, sets out the content, the standard of knowledge, the objectives of the study, the subject and those defined in the various legal and sub-legislative acts. Let me mention some of the learning objectives in the content group People and society in the renewed curriculum of society for the 5th grade primary school which deals with this topic. Students learn that people in the community are different, for example, by age, religion, sexual orientation, ethnicity, socioeconomic status. Furthermore, they learn social, cultural differences and recognize stereotypes in connection with them. And also, they learn different forms of association between people in the community. So the school curriculum is already at various stages for consideration of differences between people, where the learning goal is tolerance and respect for diversity. Special attention in the curriculum is paid to didactic recommendations, i.e. the choice of methods and forms of teaching, the development of different socio-cognitive and social skills. Parents also have ensured cooperation with the school by including themselves in various school bodies such as the school world, the parent world, and in this way they can influence the educational work of the school. The new law fully defines certain learning objectives and competences. I agree with the dean of the Faculty of Education in Ljubljana that the issue of family and family relations in schools, regardless of the law or novelty, must be dealt with in a critical manner; that is, by respecting the principles of objectivity and criticism. The school must convey knowledge and enable the student to be critical. A little earlier, a colleague mentioned or wondered how teachers should be objective in dealing with such sensitive topics and issues if they have a different belief. Please, teachers are doing their work professionally and ethically, this is their mission and this comment may also be an insult to teachers. Dear colleagues, finally, Slovenia is a party to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and to the concept of human rights and duties as a fundamental ethical and legal norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u130	The word has magic. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! It runs for 26 years from the first initiatives of Magnus and ŠKUC-LL, when in January 1989 the Unions of Socialist Youth of Slovenia sent a request to amend legislation to allow equal treatment of homosexuals and heterosexuals in the laws on family relations. So, 26 years, I stress 26 years, representatives and representatives of civil society, together with representatives and representatives of the profession and the state, are working in various ways to eliminate systemic discrimination against same-sex couples and families from Slovenian legislation. After all these years, I believe that public debate on partial and progressive solutions is already a time for the final implementation of Article 14 of the Constitution, which prohibits discrimination. So the time has come for tens of thousands of equally oriented citizens and citizens to enjoy the full extent of human rights as the majority of other citizens and citizens, to end the pressures of people who, just during the economic crisis, had to face a lack of fundamental social rights and had to survive in their own way, that mothers and fathers, grandparents of the same sex cease to listen to what their children and grandchildren need to equip their parents in the same-sex families with all the powers and rights that they can best care for the well-being and benefits of their children, and to finally assign dignity to people who have been humiliated and who have had to face the pressures and problems of systemic discrimination themselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is time to end this fundamental social injustice when part of citizens and citizens are treated as being less valuable just because they are something they cannot influence themselves. However, since the universality of human rights prevents them from being divided into any of the circumstances, it is today that we have the opportunity to allow the same sexes to enjoy the same human rights that are absolutely self-sufficient to us, so I will gladly support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u132	The word is Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u133	As we have heard, it is not only 18 years, but 26 years since the first initiative given by Magnus and ŠKUC-LL before independence. Our fellow Members could refer to our colleague Janez Janš, who was very active in the socialist youth at the time and will say very precisely – I know because we were both there – how it started at the time with the requirements for equality of different people. Many things have been said by my colleagues, so I would not explain again what is good, especially what is good if we adopt this law. I'd go a little bit into the history of this battle for equality, a battle that's been going on very intensely all the time. By the way, I would like to commend the National Assembly a little bit, but between 2001 and 2006, I witnessed a completely different hate speech in the National Assembly on the same subject. I have, not only these thousands that I got now on e-mail, but I'm going to have to spend three days cleaning e-mails, but at home I have a few thousand threatening, hostile and other letters from the time we dealt with it. I would like to recall those basic requirements of the citizens of Slovenia from the 1980s that led to independence. We know that this was one of the most important requirements — equality for all, regardless of sexual orientation. It's 1989. This requirement, the demand for equality of lesbians, gays and transsexuals at that time was one of the largest rocks, what rocks, a mountain that separated Slovenian civil society from most Yugoslav civil society. The opposition to these demands stemmed from deep anchoring in traditional and religious prejudices; the aggressiveness of opposers in their desire to prevent the rights of some incomprehensible minorities from subjecting to authoritarian thinking; and the arguments were based on unrealistics, manipulation, spreading fear and even threats not to mention further. The same patterns, a little less powerful, the objections I see again almost three decades later. After we have successfully passed the referendum, which meant not only to me the support of some sovereignty that is changing into a kidnapped country, but the rule of law and human rights in particular, I am listening to the same sentences, the same false accusations, the same threats and the same deep-rooted stereotypes, and we are equally keen to prevent a minority from achieving the rights that belong to it under the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and many other international documents. Interestingly, if not sad, perhaps even humorous, it is that opposition comes from the same political groups, which also opposed the construction of the mosque, which opposed the provision of deleted status — even though the Constitutional Court has ruled twice differently — which have helped in the NLB’s financial disaster and more. Above all, those political groups, which almost daily remind us of the fundamental values of Slovenian independence, are forgetting that one of the basic starting points was the protection of human rights and a non-discriminatory society. Undiscriminatory, especially to minorities, let each of us be incomprehensible, unacceptable, perhaps even repulsive. Since I was active at the time of independence, I know what these fundamental values were, and I assure you that there was no saving at the expense of the poor, the rescue of irresponsible bankers, criminal managers and corrupt politicians, the increase in poverty on the one hand and wealth on the other, nor of the universal place of social property created in decades of self-government socialism, nor of illegal arms trafficking, but of the legal and social state and the protection and expansion of human rights and non-discrimination. I am particularly reminding you today, on-call advocates of the fundamental value of Slovenian independence, today, when we end discrimination by adopting the law and implement changes that no one loses, and many get a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u134	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! My appeal, even though I know he won't be heard, is next. If we had a genuine and heartfelt purpose, in some motherly, fatherly spirit, taking into account and understanding the same sexes today, we would reject and create and adopt a better solution here in this house. Ten years ago, in a coalition with the SDS, the Human Party and Desus, we understood the need to regulate the same-sex partnerships. I'm not saying that the law was perfect – no one is, not even the constitution. Nor did the Constitutional Court say that the law was unconstitutional. In a brutal way, the government went and beat down the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. With this amendment, we want to keep this law, but after 10 years you will wipe it off your face. At that time, after many years of left-wing coalitions, we were the coalition that by law saved the same-sex partnership. And today you're reading this to us? We're talking about kids today. In the same-sex community, children will not have both parents, that is, mothers and fathers. Of course, such a situation has always been the result of divorce, death, or abandonment of a parent’s role for various reasons. It is right to do everything possible for the National Assembly to do its utmost to make it easier for these children to reduce the suffering and suffering they have suffered at the loss or departure of one or both parents. It is wrong, however, if we do not view this child’s situation as a deprivation, but as a fully acceptable circumstance for already born children and for the families of future children. Should persons without a partner of the opposite sex be granted the right to help them have children, even though they will be deprived in advance of one of the parents? The Bioethics Steering Committee of the Council of Europe is convinced that child rights as a general human right do not exist. This has been signed by the late Dr. Joze Trontel. Maybe you'll laugh at him, too, dear colleagues and friends. In a marriage that I had somehow expected, I also expected that he would be resolved by his conscience. I have a contract, I'm an authorized person to enter into a marriage. There is no minister because she prefers to be in front of television to ask her when the Law on Marriage will be amended, what will be the form. When I asked her to marry young people this year on May 2nd, she said that "can't, can't" because that's the rule. Isn't it still May's moon of love? Apparently not for some. Well, the vice-president of the government then promised me on an oral question that he would; this will be a Saturday, a public holiday, a day off – young people can also report. About 400 couples are like that. I would like to see another marriage that is not and will not save the adoption of children so that old parents can adopt children — you are against it, you don’t care. Thank you for such a democracy when we can talk about such important social issues for three minutes!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u136	Ms Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to also welcome you on my behalf and to respond relatively briefly to these discussions. I've heard a lot of talk about families when it comes to what will change in the future; but we all forget together or pretend to forget that such families are already living among us. Families where two parents of the same sex and children already exist, live among us, are in Slovenian society. So those where one parent adopted a biological child to their partner, or those where two partners adopted a third child; that is, a child who is not a biological child of either parent. All these forms of family are already living between us. Only that this adoption of a third child is not possible in Slovenia, but was carried out abroad, which means that this is happening, this is our reality. Therefore, it is necessary to imagine and face when we say that such children will have problems, such children will not accept, such children will be ridiculed These children are already today What are we all doing as a society so that this would not happen to this ridicule? [[…]] [[…]] What are we doing? That's one question to ask! Children are a mirror of their parents and the environment in which they live. The younger they are, the more their parents’ mirror, the older they are, the more they are affected by the environment. And we, parents, and we, the neighborhood, are the ones who have to take care of it, us, as a society, as a community, so there will be no mockery. That there will be no mockery among children, no ridicule from the elderly, that all children will feel involved in the society in which they live, in the kindergarten in which they attend, in the school they attend, in their environment where they live. That's all this is about. So these amendments govern a different definition of marriage, who will be after the marriage. The involvement of families and the existence of families is not a matter of this law. Yeah, maybe he'll line up for adoption, maybe he'll line up. This will be an option, but you all mentioned how many are waiting and what are the real numbers, the number of all adoptions carried out, i.e. those adopted in the register of origin; these are both adoptions abroad and in Slovenia. The ratio is more than 1 : 10, 1 : 12 or more, than those assessed as appropriate. Just because you're in line doesn't mean that you can come whenever you want to adopt a child. Even if you are considered fit, it does not mean that it is your turn to adopt a child because the child is the one he chooses, cares for, and takes care of his greatest benefit. It is that child; always has been and always will be! And that's what social work centers do, that means there is no order – but I'm the first in line – but I'm looking at what's best, which is the best environment, who will be the best parents for an individual child. The role of old parents, I still have to talk about it. The role of old parents does not change with this amendment of the law. It's not from today that you're changing me now so we can say that you deny the role of your parents. Old parents absolutely have a role, they're important, old parents of my children are the best thing I have because I absolutely need them, but it doesn't change in anything. The law also defines the role of old parents. And yes, the law doesn't allow adoption by old parents, but it didn't allow it yesterday. This does not change this novel into anything, because this novel does not change the work of education, of protection, of caring for children! It does not interfere, does not open these articles, so it does not change. On the other hand, there have been cases where — since it has already been beautifully listed, in which cases adoption takes place — either with the consent of the parents or if the parents are unknown, or if their parental rights have been revoked, or if there are no living parents. So, in this last case, when it's not about any other reason to be ill-treated by a child in any way, not to enjoy all the appropriate care that he needs to get, but because of some accident, because of some tragic thing, it happened that the child loses a living parent, in which case it's always the first step to look at the person to whom the child is most attached. And these are in the vast majority of cases also old parents, or aunts and uncles, or some truly close family members who have been in very frequent, good contact to keep the child in these bonds. In such cases, the child is entrusted with the care of these persons and is entrusted with care. But these people do not adopt him, because today it is still valid to believe that this child has parents, does not have live parents, but has parents. We need to know that when a child is adopted, he enters this new family in every relationship. He gets new parents, new parents, new aunts and uncles. He gets a new kinship. But in the event of a tragic case, I, for my children, probably a lot of us don't want them to lose their memory of me, that I was a mother, but we want them to keep this, but we want them to keep the best possible care for them. They're old parents, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u138	I believe it's a replica. The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, you have now been very contradictory. You've shown that in the final stage it's not even about children's rights. On the one hand, you say that children in society today are discriminated against because they live in the same - sex family — listen, is this marriage perhaps now overturning? Other measures will be needed to ensure that they are not discriminated against. On the other hand, since you are so committed to children’s rights, you have not been able to introduce into marriage a article that would allow old parents to adopt their children’s blood! So who are you here now, sorry, I don't know, but you're talking about rights and discrimination about everything else? I'm literally afraid of your discussions. You're talking about how you want an individual to have a relationship with his mother and father who lost him to keep that relationship. Yes, won't that be the closest thing to being able to live and be adopted into a family or from their old parents and somehow be able to continue this life? Of course not! Of course you don't agree, because that's the problem. And here's our difference! As far as the rest of you are concerned, what you've been saying to a large extent, it already exists today. It already exists today. They're kids, they're same-sex relationships, and there's no discrimination here. But the problem is somewhere else. Your only goal is to prioritize the adoption of same-sex partners. That's the difference between you and us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u140	I will not think of this as a replica, but as a debate because it does not meet the basics of the replica, it is that you were misunderstood. That's how I open the list again. Please apply – for those you want to discuss. We're starting the application. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Today we all got a lot of mail and most of this mail is the same content, including similar syntaxes and very similar, so I assume it comes from the same headquarters. In one, he even threatens us, to the Members, that God will punish us, and in the end, he greets us well. What a hypocrisy! The argument of opponents that the proposal is harmful to children because, in the same-sex community, they will live without a mother or without a father is simply not true because, following this logic of opponents, I conclude that they will try to take the children away from all the divorcees. Although the law does not explicitly address adoption of children, this is indirectly affected. At this point, it seems important to me to stress that adoption is not about kidnapping children from loving families and serving them to same-sex persons instead of a dog or a cat. I do not think that it is a matter of adopting children from a catalogue who live in a catalogue of ideal living conditions, but it is a possibility that a child who has lived in a cage or almost in a cage somewhere since birth, for example, in Eastern Europe, such a child will be given a home, love, education, the future; with one word of life, although some of them will not have a gift for a mother or a father's day. Some of these children may be stigmatized among peers, but thanks to the openness of our society of such cases, I don't think there will be much. And this mockery, if any, is not comparable to the grief that a child would have experienced if he had not been adopted. I highly doubt that opponents of the law are only concerned about children. The more I see the swindling that exposes the principles of their ideology and brings about the crucial opposition to the conclusion of the law between the same-sex partners. So if I go back to the matter that we're dealing with, today we're only deciding whether a marriage can be made by two people, two people without numbers. By doing so, each of you will create conditions for yourselves to live with dignity and love the one whom you have chosen to be sick with it or with it, to die and to be free from any right. No more and no less. The civilisation clock is a sandy hour, and when the time is up, we also run out of sand to push our heads. You need to clear your eyes, your ears, eliminate another discrimination and then live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u142	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to you, representatives of the Ministry and all your colleagues and colleagues! The bill we are adopting today will be adopted in a fast or short-term manner. I don't know why that's necessary. My colleagues have not convinced me that this area has been unregulated for 26 years, as some say, and some 18 years. I think that if this law went into regular procedure, we could improve it in many ways. Today, this law offers only the possibility of marriage to gays and lesbians and thus the possibility that they will be able to adopt children. We don't have that option for old parents. And I think if this marriage went into normal procedure, we would be, at least as far as Desus is concerned, I'm sure, because a lot of us grandparents are paying attention to that and suggesting that old parents have the possibility of adopting children. I don't know if these gay couples are more suitable for adoptions than we are, old parents. The minister said they'd stand in line because she's just a child for adoption less than a couple who want to adopt children. We old parents can't even stand in line because what we stand in line for if we know we won't get anything. Those who stand in line expect to have a child, and they will get it once if they persist in those kinds. And we also know how species can jump, and I believe that something like this is going to happen here, even though we can't predict it in advance, but anything is possible. That is why I will not support this law because old parents do not have the opportunity to adopt their grandchildren. I ask the representative of the Ministry of Labour, who is so eager to adopt this law after a reduced procedure, and she stressed how much care and responsibility old parents have, how much they contribute to their grandchildren, why they do not then give them this opportunity in the law so that they can also adopt children when parents die or when there are exceptional situations in the families where their grandchildren live. I cannot accept the accusations that some of you have made that those who are against this law or who change this law are impatient. I'm not very impatient with gays, with lesbians, with respect for them, with whom I normally communicate, know them, and are truly worthy of respect, like all other citizens. We can all be good and bad people and we are such; in some segmental good, in some less good, but I don't feel impatient and I don't want to be regarded as an impatient person because of this, if I don't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u144	The State Secretary to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs has equal opportunities for Mrs Martina Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that this broader debate, and this great concern for the children, but I do not know if we all remember that we have had the whole adoption in our consideration, was the Family Code, which very precisely regulated the relationship that affects children on all sides; as far as adoption, guardianship, foster care, very precisely, is concerned, much better than the law currently in force. It was much better arranged. In fact, I am glad that we now hear that so indirectly, and some even say it directly, but now this content, which has been supported in the Family Code, would be supported. Now we'd like to support the partnership law, why didn't you just file it? Why, then, did we receive such violent responses when there was only a public debate on the law on the partnership community? Why were they so negative? Well, we didn't go there or to adoptions, not wider. As far as the Family Code is concerned, I mentioned it for a reason because the Family Code had an article that would allow for the adoption of old parents from the time the Family Code came into force. He was such a member in there. Now we're forgetting one thing. The New Law on Marriage and Family Relations was not proposed by the Government; it was not proposed by the Government! It was also unable to form its articles and did not draw up the articles in the chapter on adoptions, in the chapter on foster care and in other chapters. It's not because these articles weren't filed like the ones that are changing because it's not a new family code. Since the relationship with children still needs to be settled, still. It would now be valid — what, two years! It would've all been in place by now. It doesn't work. That's why I think it's a little funny if I can say what I think and feel like we're talking this way. To spread things where it's not open by any chance, where it's not the subject of this novel law. But it's okay. So, once again: The family code has also allowed adoptions by old parents, of their grandchildren, of course, so we cannot say that today the old parents will be in line or not, because such a situation comes, I hope that in a large majority never. But sometimes it happens, and only then can we come to this situation when we want to adopt our grandson. And the second thing I didn't understand before was when both parents died. So when a child does not have a living parent, then this child does not automatically go into adoption with a third person or a third couple, but first look at the situation, the environment where that child lived. His parents can’t adopt him after the age of marriage, but they can be the guardians of that child until he is old enough to live with them. No problem! This also happens because there is no reason for the child to be torn out of the family and put somewhere else in a whole new family, into a new environment. There's no reason! Such a reason is when a child is neglected, abused in his environment, and then he sees whether these contacts with a wider family are appropriate or not, or whether the child needs to be placed in a completely new environment and family. Not when it comes to an accident and the child loses his parents. However, I would like to stress once again that I do not really understand, I do not understand this fear. Now I don't know if I've really been so contradictory. This law will not bring nor make a mockery. That's what I'm talking about. It's not a matter of laws to ban or command the relationship that we as a society have. It's up to us. That's what I'm talking about. This cannot be prescribed or written by law, and that is why it is up to us, so this fear – who has been wooing and around him is nothing, has already been said by the wiser and written by me – is exactly like that. We are creating a situation where people are afraid of something they have no idea about, something they don't even know and talk about, as if tomorrow the vast majority of families in this country will be same-sex, as if the vast majority of people will declare themselves same-sex-oriented tomorrow. Let us try to be true in this time and space and try to be realistic and stop scaring people because there is no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u146	Reploco has Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Representative of the Government, you are such an ardent advocate that one would think that you have only just come and that you have not been in the Ministry for so long, and you could have suggested all of this, what you are now saying and reading to us. In my previous debate, I said that I would never come back, and now I have to tell you again, obviously you weren't there. We have tabled two amendments to this constitutional decision, and you have rejected them. And now you're telling us why we don't do it, why don't we do it! Why doesn't he do it to the government?? The government is the one who rules Slovenia. Then you get married so your old parents can line up. And let's not create any fear because in 2013 there were only 22 registered same-sex communities, and we know that this is not going to be as much as a thousand or 6 thousand 200 as the rest. But don't say anything that's not true. In fact, you've made your own family code. The family code fell on the referendum, not just because the right hand or SDS voted for it, but also on your part voted against the Family Code. I agree, however, that the Family Code was a compromise and that it was much better than this law, as we have already said today. And you yourself now say in your statements that this marriage is bad, that you obviously have a better one! A compromise you've already had with the Family Code. Isn't it true? Yeah, I don't know. Then the Minister speaks wrong and you speak wrong. Don't tell me it's not true that we're fighting for children's rights now. I said before that we are not fighting too hard for the rights of those children who are living in poor family conditions. Not enough! Now we're gonna add something to it. We still allow child poverty. What did the Ministry do about children living in normal families? What the government has done in this area to prevent situations like these from happening today when my father kills my mother, etc. And then the kids stay alone and the old parents fight for this kid? I expect then, as Mrs Novak said, that the government will give its marriage, which you say is better than that. That you, who will be citizens, grandparents, if we only talk about it, will allow adoption. And don't talk about why it's not you. We've given two novelties to the 2009 Act and you haven't accepted them. 2006 Law on registered same-sex communities was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u148	The replica of Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State! I can't believe that in such an important mother, who is literally now arousing the public, however, one way or another, you are knowingly deceiving. You're knowingly misleading the public or you don't know what you're saying. The Family Code proposes that old parents can adopt children only come because this amendment was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Your ministry was against you. Your ministry was against this amendment. But it is true that the MP – I think the negro negro – turned the matter around and said that this amendment would be supported. Don't fool me! It wasn't on your foundation, and today it's not. And don't tell me, please, that old parents have the same options as they would if they could adopt. Not true, there will be a job that will find that a child in some environment is inappropriate and may find that old parents, I don’t know, my children, your children, and finally, the children of anyone else, are not suitable for the further upbringing of their children. That's what we're talking about! Don't fool me!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u150	The fact is, I can't allow a replica to a replica, but I'd like to ask everyone who has a debate to actually apply to a debate, you can come to the word, the time runs by a replica like all other things, while the replica is intended only if someone misquote you, but not to discuss with the opponent, with the one with whom he deals. Now Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you. What's happening to us now? We have turned the debate into a completely different course, which has no direct bearing on the proposal for a novel Law on marriage and on what amendments are proposed. We talk all the time about adoptions and now the last moments about why parents do not have the right to adopt Our novel does not touch any of the adoption articles and therefore is not the subject of this treatment. [[…]] What's this all about? It is about extending or equalising the rights of a particular group of citizens and other groups of citizens. It is now that we are discussing, or at least should discuss, why couples do not have the same-sex right to absence from work due to the illness of a partner or partner; why they do not have the right to compensation for income for the care of a family member; why they do not have the right to health insurance per partner; why they do not have the right to enter into a lease with a surviving spouse or marriage. We are talking about more rights and not even talking about the right to adopt, because there is no right to adopt. I'm talking about the right for everyone to have the same opportunity to run for adoption. But that's another thing again. Why parents do not have this option is a matter of another law, probably a comprehensive reform of family law and is completely separate from what we should be discussing here today. What is the key purpose of this move now to discuss adoptions and old parents? By turning away from the path we set in the beginning and talking about how equal rights should be allocated to everyone, regardless of the personal circumstances that I was talking about at the beginning. In a way, I would like to call for us to try to discuss what we are proposing in a reasoned manner in the debate, and to hold back the other proposals in some way to address these problems, of course, which need to be addressed as soon as possible. As far as these arguments are concerned, I would say, above all, that there is a clear concern or more fear of the world’s collapse tomorrow. But we know that it will be no different, and I think that even though the law can not do so and will not directly affect it, it can also help to make the society in some way even a little more positive about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u152	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. In view of the debates and all the messages we have received in our email, I somehow conclude that not everyone has read these novels well or has somehow been manipulated. True, we are not talking about what the law wants to do. I really got a lot of these e-mails, and I'm sorry I can't answer everyone individually, but I'm going to try it all out through the debate now. The main calls somehow relate to maintaining the value of the family. I have already said that people have different values and are, of course, different rankings in each individual. This law states in Article 2, "the family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of the child". I think that the whole value of the family is preserved so that it does not change in any way or in any way. But it is also true that we have values in us and that no law gives us values, so no law can take values away from us. For the rights of children to mothers and fathers, we are encouraged to take the initiative because only in the mother and father’s community can children or persons develop to perfection. You know, I personally disagree with that. I think that such discussions also humiliate all those single families, where mothers or fathers raise themselves, and this very good and very quality, their children. Not only did I live alone with my mother, without my father, but I went to school, and I changed a few jobs, I got a lot of work experience, and today I'm in Parliament. I think my mother did her job well; alone, without my father. Calls also refer to the free and non-ideological education of children. Look, we can all raise our children freely today; we did them yesterday, we can do them today, and I think that because of this marriage we will be able to raise them tomorrow. Now I don't know if we're going to be able to do it ideologically, but, above all, raising children is a matter of parents and not marriage. Most refer to the redefinition of a marriage commitment that would allow children to grow up without a father and without a mother. I was unable to find any article on my own, which would only be because the marriage would allow for the same - sex marriage, allowing children to grow up without a father and without a mother; as has already been said, such children are already growing up without a mother and a father. Everyone who is born has a mother and a father, and then for various reasons either of them or they both lose. Well, because of advances in medicine today, it is not said that at the beginning every child has a mother and a father. I read an e-mail that my mother wrote to me, saying that she was the mother of five and was happily married. Great! That's great! I am glad that there would be as many as possible, but I am a little sad because she is not happy and does not allow for those who would like to marry and have as happy a marriage as she has, even though they are same-sexed. The fact is that the family is a living community of parents and children, only the forms of this family are different. Everything is possible today and the fact is that they are, and because of some law there will be no more, no less, they are, and it is high time to acknowledge them. She also writes to me, saying that she doesn't mind – such e-mails are enough and even debates – people in principle have nothing against the same-sex, respect them, say that peaceful souls can live their own way Then it happens: but let them not ask for some rights that are not natural to them. [[…]] You know, these people just want to get married because they support each other because they like each other because they care about each other, and that's kind of natural. I think that if same-sex people are born in Slovenia, are educated, working, paying taxes and contributions, then it is only right that in addition to all duties they have all rights. The Constitution says everyone is the same before the law. Are they? I think that they are not and that the rights of partners in same-sex communities, as we have heard in many debates today, are regulated on several occasions by a weak, opaque and unconstitutional basis and only because of one personal circumstance; only because of sexual orientation, which is a very personal matter, such as race, political or religious affiliation. It seems unacceptable to me. A number of people have asked us to consider whether in case something bad happens to us and our children lose everything close to us, they would allow our children to be raised by a homosexual partner. I don't know why no one asked me if she'd let my daughter raise a deeply religious couple. Like, personally, I'd have a problem with that. However, I would allow both of them, because when I think about what I want as a mother to my child, then I come up with a simple agreement: I want him to be healthy, I want someone to love him and to care for him. And that's it. And whoever you are. Personally, I think that today, even more yesterday, some of the debates have actually made the biggest advertising possible for this law. I believe this because I believe that most people understand and differ on the one hand between manipulation, between deception and, above all, between intimidation and, on the other hand, the simple and sincere desire to stop the traces and accept the difference that most European countries have already done. It is right that legislation follows changes that have already taken place in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u154	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u155	President, thank you very much for your word. Families are different. This is a fact that has been repeatedly exposed to this meeting and the amendments to the Law on Marriages proposed in the United Left are nothing more and nothing less than recognition of this already existing diversity. Our proposal for recognition is really merely a formality, but this formality has some important consequences. In particular, it eliminates the unconstitutional situation and carries out equality and equality for certain groups of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens and recognises them things that should have been recognised long ago. The pervasiveness of the family landscape is quite common. When we look around, we find a family of single - parent families, which are among us, and, of course, families with same - sex partners, very quickly. This too has been mentioned many times today that such cases already exist. What I want to point out, what I want to say is that family is a social phenomenon. Family is a profoundly social phenomenon – not a natural, social phenomenon. When we talk about social phenomena, we are talking about social relations and the structural positions that these social relations form. It's not a hypothesis, it's not a political position, it's not an ideology, it's a fact. Then, however we define ourselves to this point, we may like it, we may not, but it is a fact. Opponents of the amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations proposed in the United Left have – here I would be stuck in these famous e-mails that have shoved in our inboxes like many others before me. In short, opposers of our proposal have a full mouth of natural traditional family. But these opponents simply take some precise form of family that has emerged at some precise point in social development and then naturalize it, "feel tantamount", and deliberately ignore the roots of its origin and sell it as something that has been here for centuries, and that is not true at all. That's why they're doing it to satisfy their ideas of what their family is supposed to be. They adhere to the principle that if their ideology or, rather, the world view, if you like it better, contrary to the facts – so much worse for the facts! The unfortunately named traditional family, which is so elevated as the eternal foundation of mankind, is in fact nothing traditional; at best, it is there for about 200 years. Gender and sexual orientation should be irrelevant in the acquisition of rights, so in the current state of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, we cannot talk about distinction, but we are faced with discrimination, with violations of rights, and in the United Left, we are finally putting an end to the family being defined as a community of two people. Fortunately, the Slovenian Constitution is enlightened enough that we do not really need to do anything other than follow its letter and its spirit. How absurd the idea of the natural form of the family is, we can most beautifully show that if we go down a bit into history, we go to look at the empirical terrain, specifically at the historical relevance of the natural traditional family in the time of the Roman Republic. At the time, at the head of the institution of the family, he was a callous ruler; he could be called Pater Familias; he was known by this title; he was also taught in schools, and he had a family, including slaves; he even had the power to sell his own children into slavery; and he had the power to exercise his right to life and death over all family members. We're talking about the social form of the family, the natural family, the traditional family, as well as some society knew 200 years ago. But a lot has changed since then. Slaves have been replaced by free individuals, the tyranny of rulers has been replaced by liberal democracy, and women and men have/we have gained electoral rights. Today we have the opportunity, and it shows that we will also make a fruitful use of it to take a step forward into the 21st century and adopt legislation that will equalize human rights, regardless of their sexual orientation. These are changes with which no one loses anything, but many can gain very much. Last but not least, our job as socialists is precisely that we are the bearer of progressive social change, which defends and introduces the rights of minorities, the rights of workers and insists with them on the fight for rights and freedom. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u156	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u157	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law proposed by the United Left is unique. He's looking for a political battleground to prove to each other the values we believe in. To perhaps demonstrate in the coalition that you believe in some of the values advocated by the ALDE alliance, you will adopt a law that is bad and which will cause a lot of problems and problems. For this reason, I would ask you to adhere to the old coalition practice of sticking to the river, rejecting the opposition proposal and coming with a better system law. The system law prepared by the Minister, which we have already seen and looked at, is certainly much better than the one proposed by the United Left. The law, proposed by the United Left, introduces the full equation of heterosexual and homosexual couples. So if they have the possibility of adopting children heterosexuals, they will have the possibility of homosexuals under this law. So much so that the issue of adoption should not be taken into account in this debate. The question of adoption is yet another relevant issue on this subject. For us in New Slovenia this is an unacceptable option; therefore, we oppose that the same-sex adopt children. This is a point where we disagree and we oppose and do not support this law. Of course, we are in favour of the same-sex provision of all legal and social rights. It was a law adopted by our minister in 2005 that regulated these rights in some way. Although the Constitutional Court has found that certain matters need to be handled even better, it has not said that they need to be removed. If you take into account the Peace Institute survey, then you can find that 73% of these same-sex couples want marriages because of these legal and social rights. And through the amendment of this law, which the Minister has also proposed in some way, these things could be handled much better than in the way proposed by the United Left. Therefore, I hope that political wisdom will prevail here, and that some law will be passed on to these things. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u158	Anyone else wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group? I'm asking you to sign up. First, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u159	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Most things have already been said, however, because the debate takes a long time, perhaps to shed another light on certain facts. I would really appreciate it if we could come up with a law called, I don't know, a partnership law and unanimously support it in the National Assembly. In view of today's debate, I think it might even be possible. But when I think back on the debate on the Family Code, I will repeat myself — to those of you who were before, I apologize. At that time, in the original version of the Family Code, it was possible for the marriage community to conclude two persons of the same sex or different sex. And then we had a lot of discussions, and we said we understood, we listened to whether you wanted this symbolic value of marriage to be just a relationship between a man and a woman. And we said okay, we're going to propose a compromise. And we proposed a compromise and it was written in the Family Code that we separated, the marriage remained a relationship between a man and a woman, and we named the partnership community, which was a relationship between two people of the same sex. After we talked about adoptions, we said okay, because these fears are so great, because as a society we will be able to offer a compromise and we said because in that interim period the court's judgment, which stated very clearly that we cannot treat the same-sex partners differently when it comes to biological children and adoption in these communities, was also issued at that time, and that the actual adoptions in the same-sex partnership are unilateral when it comes to the biological child of one of the parents, the biological parent, and, of course, this child does not have another parent to allow this adoption, of course in accordance with the procedures that apply. And we said, well, with this compromise, we're not going to do anything new, just put it in this Family Code. And that's exactly what we did. At that time, the National Assembly adopted the Family Code, which did not allow the adoption of two same - sex partners. So, everything you're saying today was in the Family Code. However, today we ask anyone in the general public, most people will say that we are the Family Code — those who voted against — or if we ask the firm belief of the Roman Catholic Church in our country, the Family Code allowed adoption, and that is not the case. But now I can be too long in this political space to believe it completely. Why? When we had a proposal for a partnership law, which was very clear because we said that we would not discuss human rights, however, the rights between them must be equal, let us go with this, we will not open up a relationship with third parties. We'll handle this once we open the Family Code. This was also agreed in the coalition. We put into public debate the law on the partnership community and, of course, the expectation would be that we would reach agreement more broadly, but also your parliamentary group has made a comment on the law in the sense that we must allow mothers the right to object in order not to accept and conclude such alliances. On the other hand, a question has begun to be asked, many times today, that you do not know what laws and what consequences that law would have. So, also, the Partnership Community Act, which has severely restricted and granted only rights to same-sex partners, has raised questions that we are also addressing today and are answering them in the National Assembly. Here inside I believe that we have passed this and that we all agree to have rights, but this worldview – this one is still so different that it is difficult to do this in all European or everywhere in the world very similar. [[…]] [[…]] And that's right. Now, too, we see that nothing like this has happened in countries that have already accepted it the next day. Even in France, when there were many protests, remember, on television it was, we were watching this, even in Spain; and interestingly enough, the conservative Spanish government, when it came, did not change their provisions that allowed adoption and is very similar to ours. So, actually, after the day that happens, nothing really happens. And indeed, adoptions, even in the case of a biological child, so when the adoption of a biological child, go there repeatedly, analyze, look, and really what a child [[…]] When I read this decision, it's not something that they just come in and just say that now it's going to be. It's not! These procedures, even if the child is already living there, are absolutely not simple. It is the same and must be so, because adoption is the right of the child to ensure the best possible environment for its development. I don't know, I'm not going to speculate, but maybe a kid who lived in a same-sex partner community would have to go to the parents, God forbid, something happens, and we should be looking for this kid's foster parents. And it's based on what's best for him, but let's leave it to the profession to decide. It's not up to us that there's not a proper place to live for him just because he's gonna be discriminated against because I don't know what he's gonna do. Either way, he's always discriminated against by the people we do it. We raise our children. Children who are born certainly do not have a view of what they think about when two men kiss, two women who have an opinion about what is natural. At least my children do not have the same opinion as yours, because the course of primary socialization is just different with you and with us; and so it is. [[...]] That's right. It's not like we're creating some kind of a mind in society. But society must be aware that we are different and that we must tolerate this tolerance in society. Like me, although of course I do not go to church, I will never prevent anyone from doing so or have any opinion about it because it is everyone's right. And society can only be stronger in this variety if we recognize and respect this diversity. Let us try to adopt this law, let us accept it today, I hope that you will accept it, that we will see that tomorrow will be the same and that these expectations will be, this fear that is created, that will prove to be unfounded because it is. All European societies Then France should be on the verge of falling to ruin because they have made it possible for Spain as a Catholic state to be on the brink of collapse just because they allowed it; none of this has happened. [[…]] The family cell changes over time, these are the facts, as the colleague said very well, the family is a social fact, it is not natural, nothing changes over time, as it is in history. The traditional family will be no different, nothing will be taken from it. Already today, teachers in schools talk about different types of families and some also mention, there are more and more of them who mention the same-sex family, and because of this traditional or nuclear, which is the right term, there is nothing less and children, I think I don't know, I really listened here years ago when we discussed the Family Code and I would like to understand these fears, but I really can't. [[…]] This marriage is not going to take anything from anyone. It's not going to take anything from anyone. We have 572 people who would like to have and adopt a child, we have about 40 adoptions there in Slovenia. In this process, look, it would be a miracle if something like this happened. However, the fact is that they are already adopted abroad and then we already have court decisions, you know, at the time in the Family Code debate, that, for example, there is a couple where one of the Slovenian partners has a recognised fatherhood with an American decision and then comes to Slovenia and calls for recognition of this foreign court decision. And our court has admitted this foreign court decision. So this is already happening, and with this change today, nothing will be significantly different. Let's just give it a chance and see that tomorrow really isn't going to be any different. However, I understand your concerns, I also understand these fears you have, indeed there have been many debates about this during the period 2009-2012 and I cannot say that I have not heard you say that I have not heard these concerns which you have. I didn't understand them from the beginning, or we weren't clear at all, because people are different, we're thinking differently, but now I understand you, but I am asking you in some way, if we can be as open as society, to try to see whether our prejudices or our prejudices are the only ones that are not leading us in this direction, that we are not at all allowing a different option. It's always human, so thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u160	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. My colleague Tonin actually opened an interesting topic for discussion when he says that this mile here on this page really depends on ALDE. However, as a connoisseur of how political parties or groups are actually organised in Europe, one thing is very clear: ALDE did not exist at all when this issue was already open, back then, the ELDR was something else. Of course, ALDE is an advocate of these issues, it is not at all controversial, but in Slovenia these issues were still open and there were always advocates. But the heart of the problem isn't that, it's basically a thing, I'm going to say, some political discourse that someone throws and says, you know, because we understand you, you wouldn't otherwise, if you didn't have the ALDE program back there. No, Comrade Tonin! Here it is sincere and truly that certain issues that are discriminatory are simply to be settled. Yesterday I received one question or one proposal from the Commission on Human Rights from a lady – I think she came from the association, that I will not say anything wrong, Christian intellectuals, something in this sense – which she told me, not even that it is against the regulation of this issue, not at all, but she simply said: "You know what, we are proposing in ten years, not now. Ten years from now." I said, "And what will change in ten years? Are we agreeing to this discourse that we will continue to see discrimination for ten years?" Now I could be politically incorrect, and I'd say, "Boy Tonin, I understand you're just defending this because you have such a program that they're advocating in the Vatican." So that would be incorrect. Now I'm just bringing that back so you can see with the mirror what it looks like when you mention ALDE to me. That's not the point, far from it! I believe that everyone sitting in a circle would today, if I asked who is in favour of eliminating all discrimination in the Republic of Slovenia – everyone would raise their hand. The problem is somewhere else. You don't see this as discrimination at all. That's the problem. That's why this dialogue is a little more difficult, because you believe that what husband and wife are doing, that this is the only saving natural and holy, inviolable and simply stay as it is, because until today it was all O.K. and it will also remain so, because your marriage, colleague Tonin, and my marriage, is not dependent on marriage and will never depend on marriage, but will depend primarily on the relationship we have with our partner. That's it! There's no other story. And we can sell out here from morning to evening, and we can talk about what is natural, what is not natural, and what will it look like, or will we die, or will we not die — what will happen? Nothing's gonna happen! Only those minorities will be given the opportunity to feel equal, Comrade Tonin, to you and me. That's all. And that's the purpose. When we settle this issue, trust me, when we turn over the paper sheet, there will be new problems. I hope that we will not talk again and again about who advocates a programme and how he sees his picture of regulating this problem in the Slovenian space. I believe things are painful. I don't want to make a comparison, you know, I've been convincing my mom for ten years to buy a dishwasher to make things easier for her, and she said that she's getting better at washing her hands than at a machine. Then I forced her to do it because I saw the story was over. Two years later, something went wrong with the machine. I had problems for three weeks because I didn't fix this machine because a new standard came in, new rules. The comparison is not the best, but it is deliberately extremely different to take you away from these stories because they are all burdened. I don't understand at all this problem that we Slovenians are constantly dealing with, whether what they are doing in the next bedroom, in the next apartment, is appropriate whether it is natural or equivalent. Let's get those clamps down. Let's let the people live! That's all it is. And what things must become truly untouchable. The question between the two of us must not be the question of how we will decide how the other two or the other two will live together or whoever lives together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u162	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have been talking about a very important marriage for quite some time. In my opinion, this law is so important that today all 90 Members and Members should be present, and in the evening when they vote for this law, they should all be united, all 90 should be "in favour". When I look around the hall like this, how important it is in this marriage when we see young Members who, of course, will come to have families and children. There are many Members and Members in this National Assembly who already have their families and children. I am even glad that there are many who are already grandparents. Since we are so diverse, I am sincerely convinced that we could draw up the best marriage that would go to the welfare of the Slovenian family. When we listened to the debate today, everyone must have given their opinion, and many also spoke about the party's position. Let me tell you, I've never had second thoughts about the same-sex. I even have the opportunity to meet them at some point, and I must say that when I meet these people, my experience is very positive. Never, when I had the opportunity to meet someone, did he burden the environment and all those he had met with. Today we also talk a lot about family. Surely every man or woman and man want ideal families, ideal children. It's not possible many times. When there's a lot of obstacles on this road that don't make it an ideal family. To many, thank God, it works. I myself had many times in my previous job to meet a married couple or children living in a very difficult situation. To meet a father and a mother who have many children; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, I even met a family with six children. But when I, to be perfectly clear, observed these two parents, and when I watched the children in what environment they lived in and how they were raised, I felt that these parents were not capable of raising one child. Of course, when we talk about this law, I repeat that I have no concerns about the same sexes, but I have concerns about the adoption of children. I have to be honest here that I cannot agree with this law. If I were to return to my original position, if we were to take this responsibility, especially the Government, it would not be one of the parties to propose it, but the Government would suggest it, but we would all participate in it in a quality manner. Because that's what he's suggesting, and it's not a distraction, the United Left, it's a short-term procedure, it's a rush, but I don't know why anyone's in a hurry. Today, we have also heard a lot about old parents. I have a daughter and a son, all grown up. Many times I remember when I was anywhere, especially during vacations, our parents are very proud if we can give our children a vacation to our old parents. I have experienced this many times in my life, but I have not yet experienced it, and I repeat that I have no concerns about same-sex couples, that two parents should give for a week or a vacation, for example, to two men living in a community. I've never seen that happen before. I mean, this doesn't feel right to me and it doesn't go to the welfare of the Slovenian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u164	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. We've heard a lot about this today, and I have to say that until we introduced this law, and until I was stuck with these e-mails, I didn't know there was so much intolerance in our country. And I, my colleague Podkoršek, must say that I gave my daughter protection to an same-sex couple, but there were two men, and there was nothing wrong. On the contrary! I have a friend who had cancer and when asked by her mother – in the event of death – who she would go to, who she would go to her parents, she said no; she would go to her uncle about it and this. In short, we also know a different world. We know different families and we know different receptions. You know, fear has big eyes, but fear comes from ignorance, from ignorance. And to scare people with something that something will be taken away from them if anyone else gets any right, it's, let's put it mildly, unfair. Maybe you believe these things, I don't know. I can say I don't understand. I don't understand because even living in a world of freedom, not a command, forbids as much as you do. As an artist, I'm surrounded by the same-sex. We have gays and lesbians at home in art. Why? Not because I would be promoted, but simply because an artist allows himself to be what he is, because otherwise he can't create. You know, where love is forbidden, commanded, and there are deviations; terrifying deviations of pedophilia, that people at home play something, the question of what else is. When you go home from this hall, I don't know who's waiting for you at home, and I don't care. My human relationship with you is the same. My collegiate relationship, my friendly relationship, my cooperative relationship is exactly the same, regardless of which one of you is sleeping with. Even the ring on your left doesn't mean you're a perfect straight. Never. That is why I believe that today's adoption of this law will be liberating. For a lot of people. Even with you, where you are most opposed to the adoption of this law, because there are people who cannot tell who they are. Come in. Let me get on with it. You know, we're talking about adoption. Believe me, most same-sex couples don't want to adopt a baby. These are educated, sensitive people who well know that their adopted children will go to school with the children of parents who are raised in judgment. My daughter accepted these things normally and never condemns either the deprived or those who are not entirely Slovenian nationality, not someone with mental or physical disabilities, nor a child who would come from a house where two men or two women live. I'm asking you how we would react if your daughter or son told you they were gay. You know, I know cases where these people suffer a lot because they can't tell each other because they can't admit who they are, and they're hiding their identity. These are severe pains. What we want is to establish a partnership between two adults. We're not talking about anything else. You know, parenting is different. I'm a parent, too, and I won't be any less a mother if I have a same-sex couple with me. And my child's father will never be less than his father. You were talking about adoption. How sad that a colleague in Desus, who wished that — no more is here — she could adopt her grandson as an old parent. You know, this is where we mix sausages and parsleys. There's a completely different law here, and it's a completely different matter. I don't know if you're aware of how much damage this would do to your granddaughter's materiality, because custody is one thing, adoption is another thing, and marriage is then very damaged when it comes to inheritance. Once you open a marriage, make it, we'll be happy to support you if it's in the best interest of the child. Here I see a balloon grateful for my father and mother. Believe me, we too are grateful for our father and mother, but I think that human rights are a democratic, open, European-oriented society and Slovenia and its citizens must once again become a reflection of an open, fair, solidarity, just, progressive and confident society. We do not consent to any discrimination of any kind; any kind: racial, religious, anti-gay disabled, Roma, erased, unemployed. Believe me, this is growing in today’s society, and this is what must be of great concern to us. Let me get on with it. There are some things we need to clear up. We are not introducing any radical change in the United Left, but we are following only advanced European legislative trends and 11 European countries that have already adopted similar legislation. Secondly, we do not introduce partial political and ideological positions with legislation, we simply eliminate the anti-constitutional situation and follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not introducing innovation, but we are simply regulating the legal status and hence the resulting social and economic rights of already existing communities. We do not destroy society or family, we simply redefine the marriage community and thus make family life possible for same - sex couples. We do not destroy the nation, we guarantee the same rights and equal treatment before the law only to all citizens and residents of Slovenia. We do not accept the novels past the public debate and quickly, as some of you have told us, but it is a proposal that is in line with the professional public and the competent ministries and is fully supported by the unified LGTB community. This is therefore a proposal resulting from more than a decade of civil dialogue and public debate. All we do is comprehensively and systematically solve the problem of discrimination and unequal treatment of same-sex partners. When the marriage is passed, no one loses anything, we'll leave all the mothers, all the fathers will remain fathers, all the spouses will remain husbands and wives, and many will gain enormously. Believe me, we're not taking anything from anyone, and many of you, too, are getting huge in your vicinity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you. He has a word, Mr. Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today's debate has at least two positive points. The first is, as colleague Hanžek has already found, that today's debate is essentially very calm, respectful and cultural. In my opinion, it is also a reflection that, as a whole society, not just as a parliament, we have changed to develop, to look at certain things differently, more patiently, which is a good thing. The second point is that I remembered that this week I have to renew my registration for a car that is a thing, an object. I just hope there aren't too many same-sex couples in front of me because I don't like waiting in line. Now I'm deliberately cariculating because I want to show you how unfair it is that same-sex couples have to register as things. With this law or this change of law – this is not a new law, it is just a change of one article – we are changing it. Today, many references were made to the Constitutional Court's decision and it was clear that in essence the Constitutional Court's decision did not apply to this law and that it was therefore not justified to amend this law. But the National Assembly can or must, at any time, find that legislation is not in accordance with the Constitution, amend that legislation. That is exactly what we are doing today; we are changing the legislation so that it is in accordance with our constitution. There have been some fears both in the media and in our e-mails that from now on homosexual people will be over-produced. But believe me, nobody's ever gonna be gay again. Maybe someone's more likely to admit he's gay, but now he's afraid to say he's gay, but now he's afraid to say it because of the state of society he's in right now. But no one's ever gonna be gay again. There is no law or education that could transform me so that women's curves would no longer be attractive to me; and vice versa, we will all, as we were born, not change any law in this direction. It has been mentioned that this law or amendment of several articles in this law violates Article 53 of the Constitution, but that is not true. I did not notice anywhere that this change of law would now dictate to the state that it should no longer protect the family, motherhood, paternity, children and so on. There's no such thing as a change. To conclude — what has been said many times today — we today do not take rights from anyone, we give them to just one group of people who have not had them. I think that because of such things we are all here in Parliament to give rights to those who do not yet have the right to do this society even more justly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Today we have heard many things, including that today's debate is a battlefield. I say, today it is a revolution; a revolution that seeks to bring even better, even greater equality. If in the past we thought, as some colleagues on my left think today, today women would not be in the National Assembly, today women would not have election rights, they would have slave-ownership relations. However, advanced decisions in the past have led us to live in a more democratic country today, but we must not stop today. We are back in the National Assembly before the crucial decision to prove and show that we are not exclusive and that we are not discriminatory. You say, "and we can't change nature, mom is mom, dad is dad." This is absolutely true, but advanced medicine already allows a woman to donate her eggs, a man of her seed to a surrogate mother, these are facts and cannot be denied. It also sounded like, "I can't imagine that same-sex couples are going to adopt children." Legislation already allows today, and this is once again the fact that an individual living in a same-sex community can adopt his partner's biological child. This kind of adoption is the 15th circus. With the introduction of an amendment to the law, this possibility will also be open to those of the same sex who will be in a marriage. Let me stress that in adoption procedures, in addition to formal conditions, it is always necessary to determine the benefit of the child. This means that decisions based on the Family Code must be motivated in particular by the benefit of the child, it is said that social work centres always choose the most appropriate couple who judge for the benefit of the child. The fact is that same-sex relationships exist, the fact is that same-sex partners are already raising children. It is up to us whether we are mature enough as a society to arrange this situation to ensure equality before the law for all. Are we willing to follow the social changes that are part of everyday life, including marriage, or are we still going to rub our heads in the sand and pretend that this problem does not exist? Should children who already live in a same-sex community not have the same rights as children who live in a heterosexual couple’s community be less valuable? Allow me to give one concrete example of a child living in the same-sex community of two women; this child does not have the same rights as his peer from the marriage or extramarital union of husband and wife. The state today cannot protect these children, this child cannot inherit, cannot be insured, cannot receive parental pensions if another partner dies. This family doesn't recognize this country. This child is not entitled to maintenance if he and his partner split up. The second question is whether, at the time of the possible death of a biological mother, the country will choose the same-sex partner as the guardian of a child with whom it has a deep emotional conscience and who is constantly cared for, but is officially only a foreigner. Then we have tax reliefs, parental leave, sick leave; on the other hand, we cannot charge such couples a fair price for kindergarten because there are actually two incomes, since the country actually treats this case only as a single mother. I believe that, for some of these changes, it is very advanced, unacceptable, but it is consistent with the Constitution, and I believe that it will be better in society soon, as is normal today, that women have electoral rights. This was sometimes considered unacceptable. Finally, let me use my friend’s words: Live and let others live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you. The word has Susanna Beautiful Šimenka, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, the Government! In view of the debate that I have been listening to all afternoon here, perhaps someone would even get the feeling that someone in this room has something against the same-sex ones. But let me remind you that in this regard we are very united here; that we all want the issue to be dealt with by the same-sex partners, but not in the way we have here today, not in the Law on Marriage. Why? Because the definition of marriage must remain the same as it is, it cannot simply delete a husband and a wife. Let me remind you that we – what has already been highlighted – will once again – in the time of our government, 2004-2008, have adopted the Registration Act of the same-sex partnership. The Constitutional Court ordered the abolition of unconstitutionality, but not for the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, so this is certainly not the reason that we have to deal with this law here today following a reduced procedure. The legislative process following a reduced procedure is very inappropriate for such changes, and these are sensitive issues that require their time for discussion. In this case, it was extremely small. What I think is very important to me personally is that experts come by here, because this has already been highlighted; but. - Did you hear them? Yesterday, when we had the Commission on Petitions – how many of you from the coalition came to listen to experts? Not one! The decision of the Constitutional Court concerns non-compliance with the Constitution of Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community and identifies the problem of succession between partners, which is not actually regulated. We have tried to settle this gap twice in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but the then government with the Socialists has rejected these efforts. And how do we solve this problem today? By transforming the marriage bond that is governed by marriage as a living community of husband and wife into a community of two. A community of two people, come on! To me, too, to many outside the National Assembly, even perhaps one of your constituents – I am not quite sure that you are actually representing your constituents. But we're going to delete "man-wife union." I just can't accept it. It is therefore a total evaluation of the marriage as a community of husbands and wives, which in fact represents the only civilisation cell of society and the only community that can naturally create a family. Frankly, at least I believed that you respected this law of nature. At the same time, what has already been highlighted also means that same - sex couples will be able to adopt children. That is why in 2012 the Family Code fell to the referendum, which, while I agree, had many good solutions. The current proposal, however, is even more radical and deals solely with the needs of same-sex partners and takes away the legitimate purpose of the family. That's what's at stake in this marriage! And what the colleague said that the same-sex partners will also have to put themselves in line for adoption – yes, I agree. What does that mean? So we can take this burden to the social work center. One social worker will have to decide whether one community between same-sex partners is suitable for adoption. What will happen if she says she estimates that this community is inappropriate? Is that going to be discriminatory then? The second thing that bothers me even more is — where is the child’s right here? What if the child doesn't want parents one and parents two? What if the child wants a mother and a father? As far as I know, adoptions take exclusively into account the benefits of the child. What's in the child's favor now? That the parents have one and the parents has two? Let me re-emphasize, this is where it interferes with the definition of marriage. They will marry two persons, not a man and a woman; the concept of husband and wife will be no more. If I'm that plastic, I try to imagine it. Usually when I introduce my husband to a new person, a friend, I say to this friend, "That's my husband." What's the new way to say it? This is person 1 or person 2? Sorry, I can't imagine. I take the law very personally. I have no problem with the same-sex regulation of rights, and it really seems to me that their rights are being regulated, both as regards marriage and as regards the rights they have by partner, both in terms of inheritance. But as for the kids, I have a really big problem here. But I can't agree to this because I am actually assessing that this does not mean the development of society, but rather the opposite. It is nature that has made sure that only men and women can have children naturally, and nothing else. Truly, perhaps only that I regret that we have dealt with this problem in this way. I can't even land to wait, and we'll see that tomorrow is no different. Yeah, it'll be different. Tomorrow we will no longer have a wife, and we will not have a husband. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u173	On the proposal of the law, thank you for the words, the presiding person, a nice greeting to the person who acts as State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and a nice greeting to persons elected by persons with voting rights! That's the law! No more husbands, no more wives. If I ever get married, I probably won't hear from you after the adoption of this law: I now pronounce you husband and wife — I now pronounce you a person and a person. I don't know. We'll probably figure out who's going to be one, who's going to be two. I'll see about that. There has been a lot of talk here today about how the debate is going on, that some of us are opposed to being homophobic, I don't know what else to oppose rights. No one opposes the rights of same-sex couples. No one's impatient with them. If anyone, the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with Novo Slovenija, the People's Party and Desus, proved this in 2005 in the first Janša government when we passed the Registration Act. We were the first government to deal with this area. Earlier in 14 years, no government has taken action to regulate this area. So some of the Flosses about being impatient, I just can't accept it. An example is known of what happened in Massachusetts after the marriage of the same-sex community was levelled. It was a similar case. Things are taking place in practice far longer than the wedding itself. Of course, adoptions occur immediately with the wedding. What happened there? After the introduction of homosexual marriage, the indoctrination of students and students for homosexuality begins in schools. When same - sex weddings are equalized, the school gets the task of presenting them equally and promoting them as normal. In literature, students and students receive instructions on how to engage in sexual relations with those of the same sex. Parents lose the right to raise their children on their conscience. Freedom of speech and even freedom of opinion are cut short. Anyone who disagrees with LGBT ideology loses his job. Objections to conscience have been lifted for all public officials who do not wish to teach LGBT ideology. As the same-sex marriage becomes legal, opposition to the LGBT lobby in general becomes illegal and criminal. The right to freedom of choice of business partners for all employees in the marriage industry is violated. If they refuse to participate in the same-sex wedding, they are accused of discrimination. Issues continue to go into the requirements of polygamy and normalisation of transsexual practices. Gender changes are hidden from the health treasury. Health professionals are forced to cooperate with LBGT ideology. Even religious communities that disagree with this way of life have been attacked. Consider whether it is still possible to support the equalization of the same-sex community with the natural family. You say you advocate the rights of minorities. Okay. What about the Muslims? What about their minority? We know they're in Slovenia. Then why don't you introduce polygamy? I don't know. We're for minority rights or what?Oh, my God! Several points of what the Law on Marriage and Family Relations brings to us in Slovenia after this proposal by the United Left. Legalisation of adoption of children in a homosexual community; six free fertilizations with biomedical assistance for lesbian couples at state costs – a circus of 20,000 euros; through further constitutional and legislative assessments and legal activism, reliable legalisation of surrogate motherhood, where same-sex couples will hire poor women to give birth to children on demand; the introduction of controversial state ideology in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools and universities in which lesbian, homosexual, bisexual and transgender families will be promoted, and the definition of a family as a mother, father and children will be prohibited. You yourself said that it is the way children look at others coming from other families or coming from other environments that are not the same as the ones they come from, that much depends on how their parents raise them. Will the next law you propose be the law on parental training so that all parents will teach their children about the proposal of this law? I look forward to an answer to that question. Parents in public and private schools will no longer be able to raise their children in accordance with their beliefs; private schools must implement a public programme if they want to be financed. At a meeting of the Committee in the National Assembly on 10 February 2015, the United Left publicly announced that private schools would have to teach gender theory, otherwise they would lose funding. The adoption of such a redefinition will prevent infertile couples from adopting from Russia, Ukraine and Macedonia. In the event of the adoption of the novel, all these countries will place Slovenia on the blacklist of countries where it is prohibited to adopt children because they understand the adoption of children in a homosexual community as a grave of interference with children's rights – I know that there is no agreement with Russia, but it is in the coordination stage. And the implementation of the CFSP continues to limit the rights of old parents. The new law does not provide for the possibility of old parents adopting their grandchildren, but in case of the death of their parents, the social centres will be able to adopt them to homosexual and lesbian couples. I don't know if I was a member of Desus, I'd be terrified. I would vote against it automatically, unless we represent once the interests of the pensioners so, otherwise – we have already seen how you represented them with regard to the electoral legislation. It's over. Maybe we still have some time. In Slovenian Democratic Youth, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, young people have also written an opinion and I think it is right to hear it. In the Slovenian Democratic Youth, we believe that the issue of the community of same-sex partners needs to be addressed, but this cannot be a priority topic in the area of family policy in the Republic of Slovenia, because we should take priority measures for the family policy of married couples and couples living together in order to create a family. In Slovenia, 6 thousand 254 marriages and only 22 registered same-sex partnerships were concluded in 2013. For the same-sex partners, the first step towards the recognition and regulation of their rights was adopted in 2005 by the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, adopted during the government run by the Slovenian Democratic Party. This was the first step in the Republic of Slovenia towards regulating the situation and rights of same-sex partners. In the SDS, we believe that there is still a lot to be done in this area, from the acquisition of the partner's surname to the issue of inheritance and so on, and this change should not be used in any way to evaluate the marriage or the non-legislative community. Therefore, we cannot agree with the populism of the United Left and the current coalition – or after today’s debate that I will not put everything in the same basket and after what I hear – some members of the ruling coalition on family relations. After studying the marriage proposal, we believe that it is an attempt to win votes again, because the bill does not regulate the essential components of the issue of same-sex partners, but essentially changes the principle that marriage is a union of husband and wife. Your proposal contains only ideological objectivisation of married couples to person 1 and person 2 in the style of Marxist dehumanisation of society and in the transitional and final provisions regulates the acquisition of the partner's surname and same-sex marriage. While almost all existing laws and about 30 other acts will have to be amended in their definition, they do not stop, as this will no longer be their problem after the adoption of this law, but the issue of the coalition, which will be the binding texts of other laws governing this area, will be revised. In Slovenian Democratic Youth, we are firmly opposed to changing the definition of the marriage community and also adopting children by same-sex partners, because we believe that the family as the basic cell of society is the connection between a man and a woman and a family created by these two biologically. Such a relationship must have a special status in society. We also believe that the reduced procedure is extremely inappropriate for such an important topic, and in particular for the proposal of the United Left, which essentially changes the basic definition of marriage. The current bill constitutes a social redefinition of the marriage and thus interferes with the recognised status of the marriage and of the non-marital community of men and women, and in addition, the relationship between men and women takes away the legally recognized importance of the establishment of a family that can be freely enforced by the spouses. After the amendment of the law, however, the State will not recognize by law any form of the community of life the importance of the founding of a family. In the SDM, we believe that such ad hoc solutions are wrong and do not introduce anything except a complete confusion on the legal field of the regulation of the rights of same-sex partners. We believe that good practice of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community should be followed and improved through public discourse and broad debate through clear legislative proposals that address all issues from marriage, inheritance by partner to common property, which can be addressed by special law and without ideological inspiration and by the urgent conflict launched into the Slovenian public by such legislation. On this basis, I will vote against it myself. I cannot support this proposal. I agree that much remains to be done in the area of the rights of same-sex couples. We need to do this. They deserve these rights, too, but when it comes to children, it's over. You said there would be no immediate adoption, no change, no change, no rights, but even if you put yourself in line, as was already the case in today's speech debate, there will still be a question. It may be a complaint, but a same-sex couple, that it is discrimination, despite the fact that we are now the same under law because you have given to a heterosexual couple and not to us. This is probably going to happen, and I'm asking you to reconsider. At the same time, it may be possible, even if the presiding person – a little provocative – in explaining the voice of at least those who have young children at home, to say that under this law you are ready to give your underage children the opportunity to adopt an same-sex couple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you. I'd like to ask now. Mr. Prickl, did you want procedural? Because there will be time for discussion. If not, then I give the floor first to Dr. Mate T. Vatovec, then to the Government's representatives, the Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you. I will start to wonder whether we are in the last hour of the Slovenian language consultation at the Institute for Slovenian Language Fran Ramovša or are considering the amendment of the Law on Marriage. The definition of husband and wife is not something that is stipulated in this law, this law has so far defined marriage as some kind of union of husband and wife, we redefine it only, and we have made it clear that this law is about redefining the marriage right in order to confer rights on everyone. So talking about being all of us now and no longer having a husband and wife is completely absurd. I think this thing needs to be stopped. With regard to all those perceptions that the law brings, from forgiveness to free insemination with biomedical assistance to persons who would not deserve it and so on, we have today an excellent article in Dnevnik, which the Minister has already mentioned at the outset, and that is where colleague Mahnic can also read the answers to this. As far as everything is concerned, let us grant all the rights conferred by the Law on Marriage, except those relating to the right to run for adoption – this argument cannot stand. Excuse me. I mean, if we're talking about human rights, to be the same for everyone, we can't say that we're for rights, of course, but Human rights are not "but," they must be the same for everyone. [[…]] And in this case, we have two groups of people who are essentially the same and also the rights arising from this relationship must be the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mrs Martina Vuk has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You know, just because someone speaks calmly, if they don't raise their voices, if they don't point to others, doesn't mean they're a patient person. What matters is what you say, just as actions determine whether someone is acting discriminatoryly or not; not what I think or what anyone else thinks that I am doing or not doing. However, it is important to start by saying this. The next thing you want to point out is this. I don't have a marriage, so I don't have a husband, but I have a partner, and I don't have any trouble saying anything, either that's my partner or that's my Andrei. No persons 1, persons 2. No problem at all! In an extramarital community, we have no husband or wife, but there is no problem in introducing ourselves when our families work, if we have children and so on. And also married — and now I have used that word married. We keep hearing the word married — there is no marriage anywhere. Where do you find the word "marriage" in marriage? The law speaks of marriage, so even when we say that we are or are not married, it is a human name. That's why, as I say, there won't be any problem with naming. With these apocalyptic stories that were presented, and then I don't know if I really hear bad or what the problem was when I said earlier that fear was spreading, and it was said that I was deceiving that I was wrong to hear that there was some kind of fear. Then we hear that society is going to crash into dust, in fact, that everything will be different, that from tomorrow on or in 15 days, 6 months after the law starts to apply, that everything will be different from then on. We're just going to put our children into adoption to homosexual couples and lesbian couples! They'll be standing around in school with sticks and talking if you don't admit it - I don't know what. Public servants will fly on the road because they will — I don’t know what. I think so. Really, let's breathe, let's say that we do live where we live. We used to say that same-sex people already exist, live between us. Children in same-sex partnerships are already living in same-sex families. So, what will be so different now, except that a partner or partner will benefit from a leave of absence for care that he or she cannot now, or if these two persons enter into a marriage, the same will be the case for his or her spouse. She may not testify against this person or testify against this person, etc. Really, the world won't collapse, it won't be afraid. I guarantee you that, and there's a lot of other people. Don't be afraid. The world will remain exactly the same. At times, though, it would be good to see something changed in this world too. Our society may begin to understand, step by step, that the involvement of all who live among us, that the acceptance of all who live among us, can only benefit us all, but not that our world will collapse.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u178	Would you like to discuss it again? Then I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you very much. In fact, I would just like to focus on the fact that children are not always a gift of nature, I'm afraid. They are beautiful and beautiful, but we know that in Europe between 12 and 15 percent of couples have problems with infertility, in Slovenia every six to seven pairs, followed by the upper limits of European statistics. This is how many couples use a variety of reproductive methods, all with a desire for a child. But unfortunately, then this child is not a gift of nature. Also, the fact that a large number of children online are not gifted by nature without parents and through adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I must say that those of us who did not attend last night's meeting, of course, are not sure that we know absolutely nothing about what was easy to trace from today's debate. That's why I'm going to be the one who wasn't at the night meeting, but I called, even though I didn't have the right intention. The first thing I have to say is whether or not old parents can adopt. I have to admit here, we may have missed it. We will look at this in every way in the customer, what it means, what this is now, what this status of children, who are only in parental or some care, what the difference is, and we will look at it, eventually change it, but I think that this is not part of this law that we are considering today, is another law, but, since it is binding, we will certainly do it in the near future. In this work, I can also take some responsibility. Otherwise, I must say that if we look at a little bit of history, we were Slavs on this part living in some Praslovan community, then the baptism came – you know, the Cross at Savic – with fire and sword, we became part of a Christian world. This is now our civilization, our culture from then on, but whoever was not a Christian was, of course, not part of society. That's what we need to know. This one has been severely excluded from society. Therefore, in the 16th century, if not earlier, humanism and renaissance, that is to say, the liberation of man, and then these medieval bonds slowly began to break. And then the clamps repent. Today we have come to a point, if I may say, when this liberation of man came into its stage, that we must truly acknowledge a minority with which we have not been engaged until now, say, 30, 40 years ago, today it has come to this. Well, 25 years ago, or how many years ago this minority came, for the first time, hoping to say what they thought, and of course young people, young people are revolutionary, have raised this issue about recognition of homosexuality, but today we are at a stage when we see that, if I may say so, it is much better for a child to live in an orderly situation than it is without any income and possibility of survival, allowing him to have such a relationship that would, let's say, result in this adoption. That's a very short summary of everything we're talking about today. This is the case, and I myself think that this minority should simply be allowed, to the few cases that can happen every year, this right should also be granted. Of course, it is necessary to say that the Social Democratic Party, when it was in power, recognised the registration, but that is, of course, a stage below what we are talking about today. Confession, all due respect, but today we have gone over this stage and therefore I think we are at this point, and of course I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I will be brief because the leader of the parliamentary group has something else to say. I admit that I'm impatient with stupidity, and today there has been a lot of clever talk, and a lot of misleading, and I'm a little bit too bad with the presidents, that you let this debate, you know, talk about all the living, it's almost like I would say it is, whether John Janša is in jail or not, connected to how they're going to give birth to bananas in Panama. [[…]] Now, if I touch it a little bit, there's been no debate. This debate, which attempts to elegantly edit these novels, has already begun there somewhere when I was fifteen, sixteen years old. This debate has been going on for thirty years, and if this country were a little more modern, if I were to put it that way, it would have been settled for twenty years, so much for a debate. Today's debate, particularly on the part of the opponents, is also very insulting to the many single parent families that are growing. However, I am deeply saddened by something else, the SDS is a party that has the most people among the visible members who have finished FSPN, FDV, although you spit on it the most, and you have listened to cultural anthropology – one at Južnik, one at the Year, the third at Karmen Štrk – and if they were not so Eurocentric, you could remember from your student years, such as colleagues Lisec, and you would know that there are very different forms of family organisation around the world for centuries. There's something else that saddens me that I've already quoted you from your beloved Colonel, who said, "culture is in front of the system." I love him very much in this as a sociologist. So much for the law of nature, man is an intrepid being, man has no natural niche, our nature is culture, our biological sex is also culturally determined. If I had more time, I'd also be talking about so-called cispol persons who don't want to be identified within this sex by men and women. Will I end this short exposé with what is six free fertilizations against TEŠ 6? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you. The word is Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Yesterday, at the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, we discussed precisely these issues that we are talking about today. As President of the Commission, of course, I have tried to have individuals represented at this meeting who would say their views on the law before us and against us. However, I must say that only those who were somewhat more opposed to the adoption of this law came to the meeting of the Commission. I must say that I very much missed the proposer of this law, the United Left, to attend the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, because I think it is right for those who submit such a law or any other law, and in particular the law, which very much interferes with some of the key social issues, to come to the debate and to explain in a reasoned manner and to represent their views. However, they were not present at the meeting. Let me remind you, since it has been said several times, even by a colleague of the Möderndorfer, who was the only one of the supporters of the law in Parliament to attend this meeting of the Commission yesterday, he has repeatedly said that, as President of the Commission, I have not invited those who are also in favour of this law. I have to categorically deny it because it's not true. That's not true. As President of the Commission, I have done everything possible to invite NGOs to this meeting. But here's where I'm going to tell a story. All NGOs, including the Peace Institute, including Legebitro and so on, apologized. Then I was called and asked by Amnesty International whether we could attend this meeting, given that we did not invite them to this meeting. Given that, as President of the Commission, I have to say that I am very good at working with Amnesty International on various issues, of course, I was immediately in favour of joining this debate and I also formally invited them to come to the debate. But then, apparently after the talks that took place on the left, on the left, when it was found that all members of the coalition and also the proposer coming from the United Left would not participate in the debate, then those coming from NGOs also withdrew. I see this as a key problem, because we need to talk openly about such important issues. If we really have a democratic society where pluralism is developed, where it is important to exchange opinions, especially on such issues that they share, then we would expect those who put such debates in public with such laws to represent it in a sovereign way. But there was nothing of this sovereignty. There was no such thing as sovereignty. I must also say that I find it extremely irresponsible by the members of the coalition, irresponsible to the National Assembly and irresponsible to work in order not to take their work seriously, not to come to meetings. Now imagine that in the Slovenian Democratic Party every time, let's say, the United Left proposes a meeting, because in this case the request for an emergency meeting came from the Slovenian Democratic Party, they just always apologized because it's some party's United Left to always apologize. This is not a relationship and this is not a parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy means that there is an exchange of views to argue its views. But I had only received an apology five minutes earlier from the coalition Members, although I knew on Friday that they would apologize five minutes earlier on the table, and nothing else, but no one was hoping to stand up for their marriage, except here I must be honest, Mr Möderndorfer, who represented his views and explained them. I am pleased that colleague Möderndorfer came to this meeting to express his views on why he supports this law. However, I must say that today I have listened very carefully to the debate between Members and Members, and it seems to me that some people are very fond of mixing apples and pears, mixing everything into the same basket, and especially the problems with what someone has ever said or what the perception of someone is to someone who says something. To be precise on these issues, we need to know some kind of history of adopting this legislation in the area of the same-sex partnership. In 2005, it was Janševa's government that introduced the same-sex partnership law into the procedure. Eight years earlier, or if I was more precise than eight years earlier, left governments were talking about it, and they didn't even get a letter from the law. Nothing has been done in this area for more than eight years! However, these governments have worked very well with NGOs, had good relations with them, and had a majority in Parliament. Nothing was taken! Then Janša’s government came in 2004 and in a year the same-sex partnership law was passed. The Slovenian Democratic Party – or I will say right, so the branches of the discussions of colleagues and colleagues we have been listening to here for some time – is supposed to be homophobic, we hear that it should be homophobic to these issues, that it should deny rights to same-sex people and that it should be too conservative for this modern world. We hear this from those who support this law today. But I have to say that I don't allow anyone to tell me that I don't respect anyone because they don't. I respect every individual, even if you wish, with Article 14 of the Constitution. The principle that I personally adhere to, and I think that each of us should do so, is that we never reach out to the constitutional right defined in Article 21 of the Constitution, that is the right to dignity, regardless of who we have as an individual before us. We must never fall into the right to dignity. At the time when we adopted the Law on the same-sex partnership, this law regulated the common property, regulated housing protection, the right to survival, the right to rights in the event of illness. In one part, the area of inheritance was also regulated. So we were already very aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this area had to be regulated, although, as I said earlier, eight years or more had to be done to make something of it. For in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the rights of same-sex couples are as important as the rights of each of us. Once again, I don't allow anyone to tell us that we're impatient, because we actually set it up first. But before that, it was kind of trying. Here I only remember that Legebitra then welcomed this law, that at last something began to move, and even at the Association for the Integration of Homosexuality they hailed this law as progress, as a big step forward. And once again, it was accepted by the Yanshe government. Of course, we are aware that it is necessary for the same-sex partners to facilitate the social situation in order to ensure their rights, and we have actually fought for all of this. It surprises me, and I also mentioned this yesterday at the Commission on Petitions and for the human rights and equal opportunities that these rights that we are talking about today, of course, have not been regulated in legislation before. I'm talking about regional laws, not the Marriage and Family Relations Act. Why haven't these things settled before? However, I have a feeling that, given that you have rejected both the coalition and the ZAAB party and the United Left to discuss these issues, you have rejected or voted against the public presentation of these issues, I have the feeling that you have done so in order to accept as much as possible in this way and after a reduced procedure something that is obviously still a problem in Slovenian society or a problem for many people. And you didn't want to face opinions any more. You know exactly how a public presentation of opinions helps to allow as many individuals as possible to express certain opinions on a question as you have slightly rejected. This is irrelevant to you because you have a majority in the National Assembly, and because you have, of course, the assistance of two opposition parties, you can accept without problem what you want. It surprises me, however, that the Modern Centre Party or the Bodova Party will not make this law itself, but it is in the battle lines – of course, because it is easier because it is easier to wash itself in some way – to send the United Left. It's just a political deal. But I would expect that, on such important issues that need to be addressed, once again, I would stress that they need to be regulated, but that the largest party in this House would be the most involved with all their full power. But this area, because they found that even though it was slippery for them, was transferred to the United Left. Maybe that's all. We have repeatedly referred to other countries, and we are always giving in particular for examples such as the Netherlands, but it is not only because of these issues, but also because of other issues relating to euthanasia, etc. for a very long time he's been dealing with various dilemmas due to perhaps premature decisions you've made as a society. What we are talking about today is undoubtedly a matter for discussion, but as a society and as individuals, we must carefully consider the consequences of such decisions. That's all I have to say for the end. In my opinion, this is not a question of liberality, it is said who is more liberal and who is less liberal, it is not also about the ability to raise, or know, someone in the right way or not, but in particular the question of responsibility. Responsibilities to the decisions we will take today in the National Assembly. In my opinion, society, and in particular this Parliament, must certainly be wise enough to assess what those decisions are that protect the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you. I have two requests for a replica reported. First of all, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much, President. Because my colleague, not once, mentioned me several times. I mean, she also complimented her, you know, on the other hand. She mentioned, of course, very skillfully in the first part, when she used my question of why there is no presence. Now I'm going to make it very clear. What did I ask? Yes, for the first time, we cannot answer for the Group of Members, they already have their reasons why they did not come, but of course I am surprised at why the Government was not invited. The answer was very simple; if this is a parliamentary law and there is no need for the Government to be present. Look, this is ridiculous. According to this logic, the government shouldn't be around here today or we don't need it. We all know that it is the Government that has all the instruments of power to continue to carry out all that is necessary, and that is why it is still important for Members, irrespective of their position or opposition, that the Government always pleads and gives its views. I will remain in the debate even further.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you. Replica has a proposal from Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u189	About why we didn't attend that meeting last night in the United Left. We didn't apologize for the meeting, but we obstructed the meeting, and we wrote why. Let me do it again. It is clear from the Commission's name that one of its key tasks is the acquisition and respect of human rights. From the very reference of this meeting, which was the point of the agenda for intervention in marriage and family with the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, it is clear that the aim of the citing committee or the citing committee was not to discuss whether the law is yes or no, at which point it is not, but in some way to persist in opening up this moral panic that we are also listening to here today, which we have been listening to for 18, 26 years, however long, and I would also say that it is too long. We obstructed the session because of this — and I think this was the only real move — because we cannot talk about human rights in this way. The accompanying material made it clear where this meeting was taking place, and that is why we did so. As for this public debate, which we miss so much. Once again, this is being discussed in a way that we hear here today and last week, or since the introduction of our novel, was discussed three years ago, ten years ago, at the beginning of the second millennium and so on. So, I think we've exhausted all the possible aspects that appear because they repeat themselves. We have always listened to the same arguments today, so we obstructed that meeting and that is why we went in this way to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you. Those were more explanations, not so many replicas. But there is still time for discussion, so I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[Yeah.]] Then I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u191	Look, what seems very important to me: we have heard at least three times today, if not again, how the Janša government is worthy, that the only one who has actually made the law is what it is, and how LGBT has even praised them, and what I know what else to say. Look, it is very important that, of course, for liberals and leftists it is very clear that for a long time they have been machining and wanting to keep talking and coordinating with each other, and to go out in broad society and not know what else. The conservative governments in Europe have dealt with these issues very quickly. But why? Because they wanted to make it their own way, and then it always got fixed. You know, by the way, yesterday was an obvious fact that this law went through too quickly, that there was no debate and so on, but in fact, when you passed this registration law the day before, as if we were going to register a car at the clerk's window, you actually did it without civil society at the time of the debate. This is how it was accepted. [[Finger-toed clap]] So don't talk about how democratic you were and how you went all the way. The result: Because it's bad, it's getting better today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr Matjaž German has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I must say that I am just following today's debate with vigor, and I must say quite frankly, even partly satisfied with the debate that is going on. I have to comfort people in some way that there are no exceptions to such debates in Slovenia, and parliaments have already been given around the world. This is a typical ideological topic that is worthy of wider debate, and it is also a good thing to talk about it. Otherwise, I am sure that the one who lives and who is alive has been following this debate for the rest of his life. So, we're kind of growing up, especially the younger generation, is not the subject of same-sexness any taboo topic. While some of us are more tolerant, some less, and each of us can gather two concepts: one is to blink and look away, and the other, to face the reality that is part of our everyday life, may even understand it. I'm sorry. But summa summarum today's debate will remain one of many in history, but the epilogue is important, it is important what we decide and how we will move forward as a society. Sam, I'm gonna say, in a way, I've seen this blindfolding in the past as a social maturity. A maturity that is not ready to move forward that is not ready for a dialogue that is not ready to face the fact that we have unequal people living around us. We always judge by ourselves and are very critical of others, but regardless, we do not take the time to try to understand. The same-sex debate is under way today. But I think that this debate is more important for our society, for our Slovenian society, wider, it does not just touch these societies, because later, perhaps in another debate, we will talk about other groups – I am talking about Roma, I am talking about deleted, I am talking about immigrants, I am talking about refugees, I am talking about representatives of other religions, other cultures, and I am talking about our own past. These are our frustrations. We need to talk about them. I put it all together in one basket, because these are the wounds of our society that we cannot go through, but we will have to go through so that we can somehow face the future not only with the past. In the future, I imagine our country will be at least as kind to my children as it was to my generation and generation before me. I would like my children to live in a country that is tolerant, which is free of prejudice, which is progressive, which is self-conscious, which is a society of equal opportunities, which is a society with a social sense. A society where it's important, not where you're born, but where you're born. It's a society that creates conditions for everyone to make progress because of their abilities. That seems crucial to me. But in order to make progress, we need to change the state of the spirit and therefore it seems important to discuss this, we have discussed this on the parental committee, so that there is no mistake – the parent committee is the Committee on Work, Families, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons – and I think there has been a very correct, constructive, substantively broad debate on this. And not to forget, in 2012, when the Social Democrats held this dialogue, the debate was not enough, but it is normal. View as a society we are constantly developing; the fact that today’s state of the spirit is different and that tolerance for same - sex larger is totally a reflection of a society that wants progress. As Slovenians, we need to get out of this spasm of failure, and perhaps this time we will only succeed, and I think that this message will not only be intended for same-sex and same-sex fighters, but for society as a whole. We can also make progress in Slovenia and take sides, not before, but alongside those countries that have already done so before us. And there are many of them, even around us. It's not that far. You know, it's better to understand social events than to close your eyes and turn your head. But I will take advantage because I would like to leave some time for later, just one thought for all those skeptics and all those supporters: "I am not really free if I am to cut off freedom for someone else. I'm also not free when I'm deprived of my freedom." Nelson Mandela. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you. She has a word, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Madam President. You're still the president. You're not the person to say anything wrong. I'm seriously asking because I don't want to hurt anyone. See, today we have really talked a lot about the so-called same-sex rights, if these are broken and I agree with one of the predecessors by Desus, who said that probably the law passed on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party does not completely regulate everything. That is why the Slovenian Democratic Party then proposed amendments to regulate the area of succession, not least to settle the area when one of the partners remains a widower. But let me remind you of something. When the debate was on this subject, the real widow's pensions, it was advocated by those to whom you today read that they were impatient with the same sexes, that they had come to this debate, those who were concerned and would actually receive the so-called social benefits, and they were not interested, they did not seem necessary, at the time they were not. So if it is actually the aim of the proposer to regulate this area – why not change this? Why do you interfere with the law, and I will quote because you have spoken, I think that someone has quoted even Slovenian spelling and that today is not the topic of Toporišič's vocabulary of course not, but look, the law clearly states, the words "men and women" are being deleted. [[…]] I'm sorry, but I can't personally agree to a debate that I'm a backstabbing woman because I want to stay married and I'm not just a person. I'm a woman. And I suppose even the man who's a man somehow wants to keep a man in the marriage. Today we have talked a lot about democratic views, about violations of rights, and this by a party that is drawing on its ideology in a system that was neither one nor the other. What's more, he was chasing the same sexes, closing them up, and there's something else. That's the truth. And today to tell us that we are opposed to something is actually incorrect. As we have already said, problems should be addressed, which in some ways will mean greater rights in some respects of equivalence. However, you know, marriage between husband and wife and, on the other hand, marriage or any relationship between same - sex couples is simply not the same. But it's not discriminatory, it's just a fact, they're not the same, they can't be the same because they're not; and it can't be changed by any law. I also heard earlier from a colleague of SMC who spoke about miracles and advances in medicine; indeed, medicine has done many things and we can welcome, helps many to have children, but remains a miracle of nature, because the starting point is the same. This miracle of nature requires a man and a woman. There's no other way. Basically, it's not working. When you refer to so-called medicine and all that you know, it brings a lot, but unfortunately it can also take away. [[…]] It can also be used for the needs of individuals. You probably know examples when they talk about some people already choosing what children want: hair color, eye color, IQ and so on. It's literally about ordering kids. Yes, I'm talking about, maybe someone doesn't think it's related to this marriage, but it's because I'm talking about the reference to what medicine brings and to whom all today it allows birth to be very broad and sometimes this ice is very thin. This balloon I have on my hand, of course, is not the case. I think my colleague Violeta Tomic mentioned earlier what she said. It doesn't say what you said, but it says it's about the kids. Yeah, at the end of the line, since you don't change the law of what's supposed to hurt the same sex if I draw the line, it's just the kids. Because if it were really the other thing, then we'd be changing what I said before. And that's not it. And outside of us, we are greeted by a multitude of thousands who remind us to protect the traditional family of husbands and wives, to protect children, but nowhere do they talk about reducing the rights of the same-sex. Nobody's talking about it. And what you read to the Slovenian Democratic Party is simply not only not true, it is a lie. This is also evidenced by the past, where we have somehow advocated these rights. Let it perhaps be for all those who actually hesitate, how and what, including with regard to the adoption of old parents. Yeah, what kind of marriage should that go into?Oh, my God! Yes, what law should govern adoption if we do not also write it in the law on marriage? Today's messages outside are different, but none of them is as impatient as some of you want to say that somehow we take half the impatient. It is patient outside, no granite cubes, many balloons, and many positive messages for the good of society, the countries of Slovenia and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you. I have not answered your question because I do not believe that it is in accordance with the rules of procedure, that the person who holds the presidency answers the question of the debaters. Mr Luka Moon has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. That's the last time I've heard from him. 14 days ago, I attended a round table where there were Dutch, British and French ambassadors representing experiences from the countries there regarding the legalization of homosexual marriage or the equalization of the rights of these couples. And in the end, one of the participants asked, "Now that you've done this, is everything in these countries all right, they're gone, the family values are gone, anything?" And, of course, after a moment of silence, a loud laugh followed in the hall, especially by those to whom the question was addressed. Of course, nothing had changed, the world had not collapsed, everything was still as it was, men were still men, women were still women, the family had not fallen apart, the country had not fallen apart, only a set of rights had spread to a minority which had been oppressed for many years, and now it had received some rights that had been available to others before, but not to them. And that's the only difference, and that's all we need to understand about this law. It's not at all like you say it's gonna be about promoting homosexuality in schools. If you read today's Diary, Marjan Šimenc, associate professor of sociology, was very clear. The curriculum is decided by the expert board and the legislator has no role to play here. The objective of the school is objectivity, criticality and plurality, not the intervention of a certain world view. And that's how it's gonna stay. In this law, we do not change anything that would interfere with this jurisdiction. And a second time. You claim to be interested in how these children will live. Since I am running out of time, I would like to repeat once again that just as you will by your example, those opposers, instead of showing their children. If you're just going to show homosexuality as something abnormal, unnatural, that's how children will understand it. If you show children who may come from such families as normal children, their peers, as people who need to be accepted as equal, will accept them as equal. And if I once again set the example of a conservative policy that I already once did, David Cameron, if you are conservatives, now we are liberals and leftists, the liberals and socialists who have taken this step towards openness and plurality, if you are also conservatives, as David Cameron said, that you are advocating equality of same-sex people not despite being conservatives, but precisely because you are conservatives, then tomorrow will be better for all of us. In case a cosmic order breaks down, a black hole appears that will suck us all up, and then not the United Left, but I personally take full responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Mr. Primoz Hainz, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I raised my hand before, and you didn't see me. I'm afraid I might be hurt. I'm a little abuser now. I would like to ask Mrs Anjo Bah if she wanted to say with these demonstrations outside, which are truly cultural, peaceful, that this is spontaneous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you. I'm guessing it wasn't a replica. Now I'm giving you a chance to discuss it. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Since I only have 10 seconds, maybe I'll have something else. I would like to say that today this ideological debate confirms Freud's thesis on discomfort [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u203	Previously, it was one of the debaters, and I think it was said by the representative of the SD of Mr German, that if I am not mistaken, correct me that this is an ideological topic. I don't agree with that, and I reject that. When we talk about children, about children's rights, please leave the ideology. I was also challenged about the outside crowd. I think we both know it was a civil initiative. That's what they made clear. But they must have come in their hearts spontaneously. Almost spontaneous. And regardless of what you're saying, you can also ignore people, you can despise them to get together, that's your thing, that's your view. You may even say that they are mercenaries, which has once been heard in individual cases. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm arguing, Your Honor! I didn't jump into your words, either. You can say they're mercenaries. But these people out there are only telling us that they want to keep the word of husband and wife in marriage. That's all. And they don't want to be a person 1 and a person 2. Earlier in the debate there was a lot of talk about how painful the word "registration" is that it is not about cars. Change your name. But the fact that you're setting me up today and those who have gathered together is probably a lot more to become just a person 1 and a person 2 is not a problem, but isn't it painful? That's painful, too. I'm never talking about same-sex people. I'm not talking about person 1 and person 2. For me, they're a same-sex couple. And let's leave those demagogues or more pragmatic statements about how we're friends. Look, we all have friends between same-sex people, but that doesn't change the fact that you're taking sex out of marriage today. I hope if I'm a little ironic that someone who says that they feel discriminatory about the new marriage, because that person is that person and is a woman's sex, and that man feels like he can't be found in here. Yeah, we can go like that, too. But let me conclude once again with the original message of those who gathered outside. It's about children, and in no way do we want to deny the rights of same-sex women. They already have them, we've listened to them, we've listened to them, we've listened to them, some even have children, others live differently, in their own way. The only problem was inheritance, the problem was the widowhood of one of the partners. Nothing else. Unless there's something behind here that I'm most afraid of – that someone will have a greater right to children, no matter how much blood their family member will have, and someone else will get it sooner, and that's just because they'll follow the pressure. And once again, when you talk about how you're going to send your children into adoption now, I'm afraid we're about to take the next step. The odds. Because they'll quickly feel equally sexually discriminated against if someone thinks they're not fit to raise children. He's just gonna say he's discriminated against, he's gonna complain about it, and then he's gonna throw it, just like you want to grind. But you can change thousands of laws, but nature is nature. And I remain a woman and my colleague Jean remains a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you. The representative of the Government, Mrs Martina Vuk State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I'm a woman too, and I'm not a wife, and my partner is a man, and he's not a man. So we don't change the names in anything. As I said before, it is used that people are married or not married, and the law on marriage and family relations in no way speaks of marriage in a single word, but it speaks of marriage. Fearing that we have evaluated men and women or that if this law is passed, I think it is very unfounded. The word man is also a man’s sex, as is the word of a woman’s sex, and the Constitution speaks of both man and person. So what's the problem? Think about it as much as men and women, but we haven't done any trouble with it before. The Constitution as the supreme act of this country. Like the same constitution, human rights are the basis on which this country operates. The foundation that we have enshrined in the Constitution for the functioning of the State, and the question is whether this foundation and human rights have been adopted, we have also accepted and followed them as a society. And any such step forward in the development of society is a step towards this foundation – human rights. And this is not about ideology, not about, as it is said, I have lost my word, but it is simply about our society, our community acting in a way that we take human rights as a starting point. And my human rights end exactly where the human rights of another, another person or another person begin. That's where it ends. And if everyone in this society were to act accordingly, then a lot of laws would not be needed, because that would be natural law. But natural law doesn't work for us in many ways. There was no electricity in nature, but today we are not talking about going back at the same time because the time has passed since society is developing. But society is a work of art. We're human beings. And when this society stops talking about tolerance, which is the very word that says that we suffer something and actually live by each other, but will start talking about acceptance, about inclusion, then we will really live with each other like humans. Pavček said, "Be a man to men." This is, in fact, what should be the objective of each society. And when we're all human together, then we can act as a community. With this law, we will not reach this supreme instance, so that we will all start to fully accept, respect and act in accordance with human rights at once. However, they are the same-sex part of our society, like everyone else, and their partnerships, as the Constitutional Court has also found, based on exactly the same foundations as the partnerships of diversified persons. Completely on the same footing. So why not recognize the same institute that they can conclude? And that's what this law brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u206	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u207	Dear Secretary of State! You're amazing! Almost every other word you said was human rights. Human rights. What about the human rights of grandparents, respectable? And you're going to walk them or you're going to walk them. And even now it's not settled. Even when you proposed the law, it wasn't arranged. Speaking of human rights, let us be righteous to all, to all in society. As it is said, we have said, if it is the law, and that is also what we wanted to do with the change, a flaw, correct it in those parts, which will of course also follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, and there will be no doubt that anyone would feel inferior or, as you say, that he would be violated by human rights. However, with all human rights, let us pay attention to the rights of the child. And today you're all incredibly graphic in implementation. I don't know what we were listening to, Prešerna, Spider, I think foreign heads of government and everything. Allow me to conclude myself in this spirit. So we'll change the legendary movie Flowers in the fall when Meta says husband and wife. A husband and a wife. From now on, we'll probably change this part and say, person one, person two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u208	Thank you. The proposer wanted a word? No, no, no. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I'm sorry to disturb you, but this time I have to. You said that today this is not a question or an ideological question, I have to answer absolutely here, this is an ideological question of the first order, because there are different world views on this or we know different perspectives. I'm going to finish quickly, and I just wanted to answer you, and there are really people out there, and I went among them, and I have to point out that they're really cultural, and they said they came with buses because there was this talk. As we say in Gorica, because you always talk about which government has done something or not, good goods boast of themselves. That's what we call it. Not to allow yourself to boast of yourself, but when they say the same-sex thing, you've done your best for us, that's when we're gonna make the real tabs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u211	Dear German colleague, I'm glad we're closing up like this. You know, no protests are spontaneous. Don't throw your head in the sand if you believe that. You know, those spontaneous meetings had electricity, you know. And you have to get the power. They had a stage, you know, and you have to put up a stage. And they had performers to invite. No meeting is spontaneous, just like you want to turn it around now. And this meeting outside, I said in the debate, was organised by civil society. She also made that public where she was invited. And, I don't know, it's probably not everyone from Ljubljana, respectable, neither are you. You come maybe with a Beemwe or an audio, but some come by bus. And yet, yes, you won't be able to tell them that now!? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u212	Thank you very much. It's been used all along. There is no replica to the replica, so now Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u213	Thank you. To conclude, I would like in some way to round up this debate and highlight some of the arguments that have been repeated several times today. I've written six of them in a few sets. The first is an observation of a procedure which is, in its own way, linked to the question of how we refer to the Constitutional Court. We have heard that they have been amazed at the way and content we have dealt with, the lack of a wider debate, the exclusion of the public, and that, in fact, this was then a conclusion, the Constitutional Court has never repealed the ZRIPS. Let's start over. Why a shortened procedure? I said that once today. This issue is also linked to this perception of the lack of public debate, the lack of a broader debate and so on. I think that 20 years of public debate in Slovenia alone is enough, and therefore the reduced procedure is justified. More. It is more than justifiable, in fact necessary, this law should be adopted long ago or, as we have heard today, at least adopted a family code. In fact, the family code was adopted in its full formulations. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has not annulled the ZRIPS, it has only challenged certain points, but I do not think that this is the reason why we do not accept certain legislative changes – last but not least we are chosen for this, not least because we are here – which eliminates discrimination. And ZRIPS, I'm sorry, is a law that is essentially discriminatory, because the law that says, let's grant certain rights to some, but let's not give them this moment, let's wait a little longer. And we listen to this over and over again today, let's wait a little longer. All right, no one in this room is against the same-sex weddings, but let's call them different. Kids -- oh, no. I think that when we talk about human rights, we can't rule out this right in any way, no matter what they are. Why is ZRIPS actually problematic I will say a little later, so much about the procedure and the decision of the Constitutional Court. If we waited for so many and so many initiatives to be put into constitutional judgment, we would never solve the pressing problems that are constitutional in nature. The second set of readings, which is then slightly deadened, is one of the main features of the civil initiative, as it is called, is the referendum. The first is that, in fact, the family code has fallen to the referendum and that we are today trying to reintroduce similar things in a way that is contrary to the will of the people. That referendum did not express the will of the people if we take it widely in some totality, but only the will of 15% of the electoral beneficiaries. No one is weakening their voices, but we cannot refer to that result as being available to all Slovenes and all Slovenes. In addition, today, in 2015 different circumstances apply, different circumstances. The Constitution has been amended and, inter alia, Article 90 provides that it is no longer possible to call for a referendum on legislation that eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. Our amendment to the marriage law is exactly that. Don't scare the public, there can't be a referendum in this situation. The third observation is why to amend the existing law, why not stay with ZRIPS or why not support the proposal made by the Ministry at the tables is the law on the partnership community. ZRIPS is a law which is essentially, as I have already mentioned, discriminatory in fact introduces some positive discrimination. Certain rights yes, certain rights do not. As such, it is problematic and part of the minority concerned by this law has strongly opposed this law, and still some say, in fact, it would be better if we did not have such a law as we do because it legally puts us in an unequal position. We have also heard that ZRIPS is actually an achievement of civilization and that we have solved all the problems that same-sex couples have in Slovenia. Far from it. ZRIPS has, of course, given certain rights, such as the right to maintenance, the right to acquire common property, the right to housing protection, the right to inheritance and the right to obtain information on the health status of the patient. For example, he did not allow the right to health insurance by partner, the right to absence from work due to illness of the partner or partner, the right to compensation for income for the care of the family member, the right to conclude a contract after the surviving spouse, the right not to testify in criminal proceedings in the case of a partner in the proceedings, and a number of other matters. Among other things, in some way it puts the same-sex partner community in a very uneven situation by allowing a diversified couple to mark their relationship at some ceremony in a marriage relationship or at least have the same rights in an extra-marital relationship, while same-sex couples have to register at the office from Monday to Friday, during official hours, in an office in an administrative unit. This symbolic moment is also important. Of course it's important, far from it. And I don't think we can have any reservations here, so we can't address all these aspects and assign them to same-sex couples. This results in some kind of inadequacy of the partnership community law, which has been in public coordination. The Partnership Community Act is an essential step forward. The only problem he has is that he doesn't have his own content. The Partnership Community Act is referred to at 11 points in the Marriage and Family Relations Act. It is said that the Partnership Law confers rights on same-sex couples, as laid down in the Marriage Act, by restricting adoption and fertilisation by means of biomedical assistance. In the United Left, of course, we are critical of this because we cannot put this "except" on. Justice for all equal, no compromises. The fourth point, most likely and most addressed in this public debate, is adoption. We have listened to the need to take care of the welfare of children, to propose that in fact two persons adopt the same child, that adoption of the child is not a right and so on. Of course, we have in mind the welfare of the child and realize that adoption is not a right. And of course, no one's ever said that. At least not by the proposer. We are also aware that the law does not in fact bring this right, as the opponents of the law like to call it, but offers the same opportunity to run for adoption status. It is said that there will be no direct right to have a child, this is not set out in the marriage law, but we are always talking about the same possibility that someone is running for adoption status. What's the child's welfare? I think we have also forgotten this aspect in this debate. The welfare of children is that a child grows up in a family that is considered to be the most suitable for its development. I think that this is the basic flag that we must keep in mind, and this is, in its own way, also set out in the rights given by the law on marriage and family relations, and it is a matter of assessing the professional services, the social work centres, to which the new family will be sent. This means that there is no personal circumstance, sex, race, nationality, whatever depends on which family is suitable for adoption. It decides on some specific criteria that we must leave to the professions, but not to some ad hocly explaining what is best for the children. One of the main dilemmas is that in some ways two concepts are misunderstood. On the one hand, we have a marriage. On the other hand, we have a family. What is the essential difference? In fact, marriage is a civil contract between two adults. Do not give this relationship any other supernatural or external significance. This is a contract that clearly regulates the relationship between two full-year-olds. On the other hand, the family is again something related to the long and shocking development of society. Today we've already heard, a family of some monolithic notion, not some fixed concept created by the formation of a land that didn't come with a big bang, but something that changes, develops and so on. It is also said that the family’s failure by adopting a marriage law is entirely groundless. Some also referred to Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, protects the family. Of course he's protecting his family, and he's still gonna be protecting her. The law, the second paragraph of Article 3, also provides that the purpose of the marriage is to establish a family. Family stays, no one takes family. Family is what we define. We already have families without children. So the definition of a family can't in some way be a stable definition, which everyone likes to call natural, but it's something moving, something that crosses solid boundaries. So the family is that community of two people, as defined by the law by a new definition, and I think that this must become something that is, in fact, self-evident. We have also talked about gender eradication, and I have already mentioned my point of view. In essence, marriage does not determine what a man is, does not determine what a woman is. These are only two singles who have been used in the current law. What is a man, what is a woman, is a matter of SSKJ, spelling and, as I said earlier, competent institutes dealing with such problems. I'm married, I can call my wife my wife, and I'll still call her my wife. This will not change anything unless they decide to change the definition of SSKJ or decide that the use of this word is no longer appropriate. But it's not a matter of marriage law, it's a matter of purely some other debate. On the question of how the law on marriage actually threatens the family, we have heard that the constitution protects the family, and I would ask the opponents a more rhetorical question – what is our proposal actually jeopardising the family? For nowhere is this one determined, as it is glad to be shown. Finally, the most different or general question remains, this is a question of society. Here too is the thought of the welfare of children that these children will not grow up without difficulty, that their peers, in their own words, will tease or despise them. That there is actually this concern, and here the opponents of the law are now making themselves a moral defender to consider how these children will feel, how they can normally join society. What's normal? Five hundred years ago, it was normal to claim that the land was flat. Some time later, some scientific research, some very spontaneous observations, or common sense showed that this is not the case. It's about some movement, and one of the larger ones is smaller. Of course, this is a matter of every individual opinion, but things are changing, and I think they need to be understood as such. The second question is that children are already despised, not because they live in same-sex partnerships. They are despised because their parents are not wealthy enough to buy them clothes that wear certain brands that are popular or not at this time. They're despised because, for example, they don't have money for lunch when it's supposed to be a break. They are despised, and we have seen a very serious and serious problem because they come simply from another country because someone is Bosnian or something. More. They are not despised, they are subjected to physical violence. These are all the problems we need to address properly, the problems that exist. And there is also the problem of children living in same-sex partnerships who have different rights than other children. We have been listening all day, and we have heard many times — these children are and nothing will change, even if the marriage is not adopted. These children will still be and there will probably be more someday. You can go abroad, you can adopt a child, and those same-sex couples who have that wish can make it happen. The problem is that these children will have significantly less rights than their peers do. Not because they can't be adopted by their grandparents or because they can't be adopted by a diversified couple. They have problems and will have problems because the Slovenian legal order does not provide for such children to exist at all, and it is not envisaged that they have the rights arising from this. When opponents of our novel talk about the need to have children's rights in view, their well-being, to ask themselves and to put themselves in the position of these children, who already have two parents of the same sex, how they currently suffer and are denied certain rights, fundamental human rights. Of course, society always responds to fear in a certain way or in a certain way. I think that's what we're witnessing right now. People are scared, it's a change that's important, and I stress this, it's important because it's going to show that we're a mature, modern democratic society, a society that's ready for 21. The century, and we can only do this by granting rights to those who do not. So we don't take anything from anyone, husbands, wives, extramarital partners, but we're just adding. But to those who do not have rights, we should have them by the constitution, and we assign them to them. And I don't think we can be arbitrators, how much, to what extent, we give them. Rights shall be granted in full. This is also the significance of the adoption of the law. Of course, the law itself will not force anyone to be more patient, nor will it force anyone to become more understanding, to become more sensitive. However, it will gradually and slowly create climate at least for those who are now engulfed in opposition to such arrangements or in such a situation in society, so that they are slowly softened. My colleague Möderndorfer said this afternoon that it is not understandable today how we could have had sex in the mid-1970s in some way a crime. In the United States, for example, it was not until the 1960s that racial discrimination was eliminated in principle. In the 1940s, there are still problematic aspects of this, but it is much better. And in 40 years' time, I hope that the same-sex couple, who will be married or living in an extra-marital relationship, will enjoy all the rights enjoyed by a diversified couple, something completely self-evident. And our proposal and today's vote is just that, and nothing more than that. By redefining the relationship between a man and a woman in a relationship between two people, we are only doing this simple, simple step, which is actually a big leap if I quote the astronaut a little unhappily. This is a major shift in society that will bring about a significantly better functioning of this society. Therefore, in my own way, I would like to express my hope that this law will not only bring about some removals of legal barriers that we currently know in Slovenia, but will contribute to making our society, a Slovenian society in some way, an example, not only to make all the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia mentally more patient, but to try to influence the other Member States as one of the advanced countries, the 12th country in the EU, to make that same move. And here we finally have the opportunity, as one of these Member States, to put ourselves on a summit where those full-fledged members, who in fact with their practices, even legislative ones, show that changes are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you. I also give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and to Mrs Martini Vuk's equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Finally, it is right to look at the content of this proposed amendment to the law on marriage and family relations in order to remember what is really changing. The change is that if this law is enforced, two persons of the same sex will be able to marry in addition to two persons of different sexes. The same applies to the extramarital community. Thus, the unaffiliated community will be considered to be a community of both men and women and a community of two persons of the same sex. However, the law further regulates the transitional period when it enters into force and what happens to those registered partner communities that already exist and are registered under the so-called ZRIPS, namely the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership, so that two persons who have this registration can declare that they want to be transformed into a marriage or that they do not want to be transformed, then this does not change so that they can also decide on any changes in their surnames. This is the content of this novel. We have, of course, gone a long way in the debate, but it is only right that we, at the conclusion of the debate, really calmly remember what this is all about. The Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community set out exactly what the name of the law already says. Registered. Two persons of the same sex registered on the administrative unit and, after they had this registration concluded, they were subject to a limited fee-based set of rights they had. Twice it has been decided in the Constitutional Court that this scope of rights is not sufficient. It is likely that if several initiatives were put in place, it would also be decided several times that this scope of rights is not sufficient. Since the Constitutional Court itself, in its interpretation of its decision, stated that, in fact, the same-sex partnership, i.e. the relationship between two persons of the same sex and the two persons of the different sex, is a matter of the same ground on which both relations are based, it is therefore right that they should also be regulated in the same way. The same name is symbolic, but not only symbolic, in fact. You have already heard from the Minister today, and many others have talked about the whole history of regulating the rights of same-sex partners, how this regulation has been going on, how long a time-consuming path has been. As for the change in thinking, as regards the change in the scope of recognised rights, this path is not really that long. And after all possible compromises, after very different forms of proposed laws, after such and different changes at the end of the debates, we will come to the same same conclusions, and I will say the same, "argments" because it is only a very superficial opinion in truth. We come to the same, so there is no problem in how much longer we need to talk, how long compromises need to be sought, because, and now I will use this word relationship again when it comes to human rights, but there can be no compromise indefinitely. It can't be because it's wrong. And when it comes to minority rights, it is the majority society that decides on these minorities. And this majority society, at least as far as you, Members and Members are concerned, I strongly hope, and it appears that this will be the case today, will decide that same-sex partnerships are equal to diverse partnerships in all forms. This will be decided today. And this isn't really such a big earthquake for this country, for this society and for this world of ours. First of all, because we have cases of countries where this has already been done. Some years ago, some recently. But no earthquakes, no earthquakes. Not even after a few years did they change these laws because they found, uh, our society has not yet matured for the ongoing changes. They're not. This has not happened with changes of government either. You know, in fact, law always governs some social relationship that already exists. It regulates them, meaning that it lays down the rules of the game by which to behave in these social relations. And the rules of the game become clear. And now the rules of the game will be clear for same-sex couples. Is that really too much? Is that really so scary? Because same-sex couples live among us today. Some are registered, others aren't. Those who are not registered may live together for years and decades, exactly as those partners of different sexes. And these same sexes have absolutely no mutual rights; for each other, they have no rights today. Those who are registered shall have a limited fee-based range of rights plus those which have been assigned to them by decisions of the Constitutional Court. That's what today is. Is it really so scary that now these relationships are equal and rights are equal? And if we move on, it's not too much to repeat, it's not too much to repeat, because I'm sure people don't know, they don't know that families where two parents of the same sex and children are with us already live among us. The same-sex families are already living among us, and nothing has happened in this country by us falling apart as a society, a country, our values, to break down in order to change the school system in order to bring the sky down on us. Nothing happened! But these families are not like those families where partners are different sexes or where single - parent families are. Still, it's important to remember. Not so far back, a few decades ago, single - parent families were the ones that were said to be not natural, that they were conceived in sin, that those women who had given birth to such a child should be excluded, those children being bastards. It's not that long ago. My parents' generation remembers that very well. Many among you remember this very well because you lived in those days. But the company went on. We don't find that strange today. Today, we don't think it's unnatural. Today, everyone, but really everyone, at least I hope, agrees that such families must be especially protected because they are more vulnerable because they are usually in a poorer material situation, because there is only one parent, etc., in short, we take special care of these families. Hence, it is likely that the time has finally come for us to accept other forms of family. Other forms of family, too. By the way, in high school, in college, I remember that very well, we also learned about different forms of families, about nuclear, about extended, about single parenting and about same-sex. This is not a revolution, but it is a step-by-step step in order to regulate those relationships in our already existing community. When we talk about this great fear, and actually we come to it, I'm going to use one quote again, because I'm not the smartest person in the world, Einstein said, "How sad are the times when it's easier to break an atom than a prejudice." And it's a lot of times. For prejudice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u216	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. However, I am also putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u217	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the adjourned meeting of the assembly! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 32nd item on the agenda, these are the Mandate of Election Affairs. We are moving on to the examination of the Candidate Decision, which, in accordance with Article 17 of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. Since Mr Srečko Blažić’s term of office expired yesterday, the State Election Commission forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the term of office of the Member would be magnified. Bojana Kranjca. The findings of the State Election Commission were considered by the Commission's mandate-holder as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. You received the report and it was published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. He wants the word commission? No, no, no. Thank you. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Not at all. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Okay. In this case, I am closing the debate and moving on to a vote. On the basis of Article 7 of the Law on Members, Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are voting on the following proposal for a decision: The mandate of the Ambassador shall be confirmed. Bojan Kranjc, born August 25, 1971, residing 45 Street of Fighters, Maribor. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 82 were voted against and none were present. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A fellow MP, Mag. I invite Bojana Kranjec to join us and occupy his post. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of a President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to identify the political responsibilities of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the National Assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. For her, Mr. Daniel Krivec. No, no, no. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The final password or slogan of the authors of some advertisement brochures at the time of the formation of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, Block 6, states all: There are no energy limits. What the government, what the National Assembly, what taxpayers, what owners, what the state, what they can do to us, because there is no limit to energy. In a few words, it has been described in detail as guiding the principles of state kidnappers, whether in energy, health, construction, bad bank, or among sellers of state silver. There's no limit to energy. Therefore, the parliamentary investigation to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectricarium is also intended, and in particular to determine the principle of functioning of state kidnappers who exercise private interests under the cloak of public interest, not only in the field of energy. The most important thing in all of this is the most uniform definition of political developments known in the world under the term "capture state" or "acquisitioned state". This is according to the encyclopedia's description of the types of political corruption characterised by the determining impact of private interests that have a decisive impact on national decision-making procedures according to criteria based on hidden and illegal links. Why do we consider that the parliamentary inquiry is of public interest or public interest and that it must be carried out by the National Assembly? Very briefly. The investment in Block 6 in addition to the bank hole poses the biggest threat to the stability of the financial system. Since the beginning of 2003, there has been a clear indication that the project is being created and managed in suspicious circumstances. The fact is that the original project was estimated at a total value of EUR 602 million and its value increased to EUR 428 million by 2013. Another time. The irregularities that took place in the implementation of the project were thus pointed out by the Commission to prevent corruption, the professional public, the public concerned and various civil initiatives, but not always successful. We have only recently witnessed the first criminal and judicial investigations. In the past, prominent public officials have also repeatedly warned about irregularities. There have also been initiatives to thoroughly investigate the implementation of the block 6 project, but the project has never been explored, at least not by political interference. In addition, it should be noted that those criminal investigations cannot and will not reveal political responsibility for the enormous damage caused by the constant increase in the final price of the project to the State. In 2012, a proposal for a guarantee law for block TES 6 was tabled in the National Assembly, provided the investment price of the project is reduced and the price of lignite is reduced. Alstom, however, began threatening to stop works on the project due to delays in his guarantee. In June, the National Assembly then adopted the State Guarantee Act for a loan of EUR 440 million, and among the conditions for the conclusion of the guarantee were the condition that the project should not be extorted from the existing EUR 303 million and that the price of lignite should not exceed EUR 2.25 per gigajoule. Soon thereafter, the price at present, as we said, increased by a billion 400 and a few million more, the price of lignite increased, requirements for additional preheating boilers were put in place. Only domestic lignite has changed into a mixture of 10 % of imported lignite, and an additional railway track requirement has been put in place. And it's obviously not over yet. People around the thermal power plant report that almost every weekend TES 6 stands and that problems with the mine are also caused by the servicing of TES 6. I am therefore confident that we will all vote in favour of the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u219	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. At the same time, I note that there is no debate among Members, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition, appointment of the President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[It was 82 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Mr Igor Bordon's duties as deputy member of the National Election Commission. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[It's 83 votes.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 2. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5. Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 5 and we would also like to ensure that the Article is not deleted, that the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community ceases to apply. But once again we urge you to essentially support our amendment and by voting against the law, because in fact, here I have a decision of the Constitutional Court and also what it has decided. I'm sure you've read it, what's decided when you say there are inequalities. The third point states, "the same rules apply to the elimination of established non-conformity between partners of registered same-sex partnerships as are applicable to inheritance between spouses under the law of succession". In short, it's currently valid until it's fixed. And once again, I say he says that it is necessary to correct articles that were unconstitutional. But for all same-sex people in the community, there is a law, and it is this decision that gives them the same rules as those applicable to the inheritance between spouses. That is why I expect you to support our amendment, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u221	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u222	Thank you. We will not support this amendment in the United Left. In particular, because, under its amendment, it excuses the law on registered same-sex partnerships, which is also another discriminatory law and in fact restricts rights but does not grant them. At the same time as regards the amendment, in two decisions and in one judgment, the Constitutional Court in some way defined the similarity between the same sex and the diversified partnership community, which it says is a significant stable link between the two persons close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other. That's why we're kind of rejecting the evidence of the amendment, and I repeat, we're not going to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u223	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of the Alliance's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u224	Thank you very much, President. Of course, we will not support this amendment for a number of reasons. In fact, the amendment by New Slovenia is a kind of surprise. Your minister has actually taken the first step, and that's why I appreciate him. I appreciate him because he actually did what we couldn't do in one step. Today, however, a second step is actually taken. Minister, everyone bragged about him today, and the SDS bragged about him. Unfortunately, he was expelled from the government. Still, he's taken one good step, we're doing another today. In the Alliance of this amendment, we will not fail.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u225	Before I give my word to anyone else, I would like to ask that we today remain in explanation of vote within explanations of vote without controversy with others. Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? Then I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment because I want the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community to remain. We in the coalition SDS plus Nova Slovenija plus Slovenian People's Party plus Desus knew and specifically resolved the issue of the same-sex partner community ten years ago. That the law isn't ideal? Of course, I agree. Whose constitution is ideal? None. It is therefore necessary to amend the laws and, therefore, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, non-constitutionality must be abolished. It's a legacy. In the eighth grade, I learned that there was a will or will. Anyone can inherit, anyone. All you have to do is write a will, sign a witness, even better on the inside, and the matter is solved for everyone. The intention of this novel Law on Marriage and Family Relations is also that it actually wants to radically erase what we did 10 years ago. Interestingly, at that time we were more or less the right-centred political coalition, which, after many years of left-wing coalitions, had been the only one to have had enough to resolve the issue of the same-sex partnership. I therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u227	We have thus concluded our explanations of vote and can vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 83 Members present and 25 votes against 54. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 7. Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u228	The Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Community is still in force. We have a Constitutional Court judgment, a decision to correct it in some part, and there is no need to abolish this law in this way, simply delete it and replace it with a law on marriage. For me, marriage is a marriage between a man and a woman, and there is no need for us to push the same-sex partners into this marriage. That's why I'm against it, and I'm going to support our amendment, which we're proposing not to end this marriage, but to supplement it. It can also be renamed, if the word is not registered, we can find another term, but there is no need for this law to be replaced by the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. That's why, of course, I'm going to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u229	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u230	For me, the marriage bond is a civil contract between two people. We are proposing this with our novelty, so for the same reason as for the previous amendment in the United Left of this amendment, we will not support it, because I repeat, ZRIPS is actually legitimizing some positive discrimination by not giving all rights to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u231	So we can go to the vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 7. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present and 24 were voted against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u232	Dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will oppose the proposed law. We will oppose because we believe that the law is incomplete and will cause enormous harm to the entire community. All those who oppose this law today will most likely be labeled with all possible homophobic stickers, impatient that we are not equal rights and anything else we could list. I think that in today's debate I have not heard either one or I have not heard impatient acts against same-sex. However, we have heard a lot of debate in the sense that conservatives, if you want to, oppose one point, and this is the possibility of adopting children by same-sex partners. That's where we're different. Therefore, we consider that this law, which is now on the agenda, is inappropriate. We also assess that the law that the Ministry has drawn up and has already gone to the hearing, and we have seen it, and we have given it our opinion, is much more appropriate, because they are in an integrated way solving all problems and also taking into account the will of the people who expressed it in the referendum. And I hope, as I said in my debate, that many times we use that salt winged, when the coalition rejects the opposition law in order to say that it will then bring its system law, this time and today you have a one-time opportunity, dear coalition to justifiably and realistically enforce it, to reject the opposition law, which is incomplete and is not good and to bring your own, which the Minister has already done, which is much better when he eats it. And it'll be for the same sex as everyone else. And once again, we don't want to deprive anyone of any rights. We have repeatedly said that all social and legal rights are regulated for same-sex couples. What's the difference, I told you. And even when you read the Peace Institute research, same-sex people don't talk much about adoptions. They are primarily talking about legal and social rights. And I don't understand why you're pushing yourself in this direction at all costs, which no one's practically asking for. But there are many other things that need to be settled, and you don't. As a result, we sincerely want this marriage to fall today and to have a new opportunity to build a new and better marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u233	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u234	In the United Left Group, of course, we will support the law if we do not propose it. But I'd like to point out why. Firstly, this law eliminates the anti-constitutional situation and systematic discrimination against same-sex partners, which currently reigns in the Slovenian legal order. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Constitution, which lays down equality before the law and equal opportunities for all, it in fact confers rights on all, irrespective of those personal circumstances. Thirdly, just the fact that we currently have one law governing the rights of one group of people and another law governing the rights of another group of people who are essentially equal is a clear sign that something in Slovenian legislation is very wrong. This law proposes in some very sophisticated and simple way, so I do not think we can talk about not being assigned. It simply does so by redefining the marriage relationship. And we never denied it. The essence of this marriage is the redefinition of marriage. The redefinition in the way that marriages are no longer defined as a community of men and women, but two persons, simply. I am still insisting on this, and I am of the view that human rights cannot be shared with a compromise, something yes, something does not. I think the only way these rights are distributed equally and equally is by equalizing the marriage. Any other proposal such as ZRIPS or such a ZPS is simply an intermediate path, something that is essentially crippled. If we want an equal society, if we want equality of all, and I think that we have actually heard it today from the mouth of all Members, we are all in favour of having the same sex rights as the vast ones, then there is no other way to press for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u235	Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u236	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations interferes with the Institute of Marriage in a way that at least violates Article 53 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the Resolution on the Fundamentals of Family Policymaking in the Republic of Slovenia. The only solution to the law is to delete "husband" and "woman" from the legal system and replace or mark two persons. The purpose of the law is not to align the rights of partners of the same sex with the rights of spouses, but rather to redefinition the marriage as a civilisation institution of husband and wife, to whom the State recognises the particular meaning and purpose of the family. Regardless of the different forms of marriage in world history, it has never happened that society as a marriage would recognize the community of two or more persons of the same sex. The law will allow the adoption of children to two persons of the same sex, but it will not allow the adoption of children to old parents in case the child loses parents. We think it's a marriage that's very poorly prepared. It is accepted by means of a reduced procedure and by an argument of the coalition's power. We have also heard from the Ministry today that marriage is not the best, but it is only a step forward. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the rights of same-sex couples when it comes to social and natural rights between adults. However, adopting a child is not a human right or an adult’s right. We will not support this amendment of the law because of all that has been said in the SDS several times already today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u237	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u238	Thank you very much. In the context of the adoption of the said amendment, gender inequalities are mainly addressed and the rights and obligations of the two spouses are levelled. In this novel, however, we do not interfere with family relationships. The spouses do not have the right to adopt children, but only have the possibility of adoption under legally defined conditions, the central of which relates to the appropriateness of the circumstances for the child. The competent authorities and their officials shall assess, from case to case, which marriage couple is most suitable for the adoption of a particular child in a particular case and what community is most beneficial for it. Therefore, adoptions concerning the adoption of the amendments in question cannot be discussed. In the case of adoption, the child and his or her interests are at the forefront and there is no right of an adult to adopt a child. Therefore, once again, the question of the concept of family and family relations is not the subject of regulating this novel that we are adopting today. The central issue of today's novelty is the equalization of rights and obligations arising from a marriage concluded by two adults. And we support this part in the SMC Group. And there are some historical facts to put an end to this, because I still have time. The existence of same-sex partnerships is recognised by a civilised society with more or less clear support from the very beginnings of a high civilization — through ancient Greece, India, ancient Persia, Congo, feudal Japan, Papua New Guinea to this day. Today, when we witness the adoption of national laws across the vast majority of the developed world equalizing same-sex relations with the diversified, in this process in the Republic of Slovenia we are neither ahead nor backward. In the SMC Group we recognize it and we support this process. We also respect the law of marriage, where it is for all those who recognize such a marriage, where it remains governed by a clear division between husband and wife and their mutual duties and the form, role and content of the family. What is fundamental to both, state and church standards, is the external support of individuals to love one another in harmony, harmony, and mutual love, and they are open and unlimitedly fulfilled and happy in the love they share with one another and with others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u239	The explanation of vote was complete because it was explained how the SMC Group would vote. Is there any other explanation for the vote from the Group's point of view? Mr Matjaž German, SD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. We want to live in a country that is tolerant, without prejudice, progressive, confident that society will have a social sense in it, that this society will have equal opportunities, where it will not matter where, when, to whom, someone was born, but the most important of their abilities. Therefore, all citizens must have equal opportunities, equal rights and equal responsibilities. We'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u241	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u242	At the beginning of today's session, I was pleased that today we will reach this point where we will be able to vote and finally open this way also to those groups that have been discriminated against and in fact pushed off to the edge of society where they were hiding or only dreaming of being equal and similar to others. Today's act actually gives our country legitimacy in what we are talking about human rights. We haven't given all human rights yet, and there's still a lot to be done. However, for this group, today is the day when they will begin, if they have previously had injustices, in which they have only dreamed and wept, but now they will have to be fought in the field, in nature, in reality even in reality. It won't be easy for them. But we will certainly support them today with today’s decision and today’s decision. And I'm glad there's gonna be a lot of happy people today. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u243	We have ended with an explanation of the vote of the parliamentary groups. So there'll be an explanation in their own name, so I'm asking you to apply. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote against the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which, due to some micro-constitutional non-compliance with the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, came to the National Assembly through the back door and I must thank you for the democracy that I, as a participant in the war for Slovenia, expected to be completely different, so that I will have at least a little more time on such issues to discuss here in this Chamber of Democracy. On average, any Member may speak for 3 minutes and no more. Thank you for such a democracy. It is a social experiment, an extremely dangerous social experiment, perhaps even financed by Jewish money. How Jude ended up, that's what the books are about. The Bioethics Steering Committee of the Council of Europe is convinced that the right to have a child as a general human right does not exist. In the same-sex community, children will not have both parents, that is, mothers and fathers. This law is also unconstitutional, and I will therefore vote against it. I am surprised by the priorities of the Cerara Coalition at 112 and more thousand unemployed, registered unemployed, when we are growing youth unemployment, in fact deals with practically less important but less important matters. I have a duty to bring a message to several thousand people who have stopped me, spoken to me and asked me to report to the Cerara Coalition in particular that this is the beginning of the end of Cerara's coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u245	Gradually, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. I would like to draw attention to the hate speech we have heard in the implementation of Mr Horvath, and I call on you, President, to give him a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u247	It wasn't an hate speech. What happened was part of the controversy, part of the call, but we're at that point where warning about each of these matters would only prolong the procedure. But now you have a spoken word to explain your own voice. Procedurally, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u248	Dear President! I'm appalled, you're literally saying now that we're not going to extend the procedure, we're going to be able to take offense. I mean, if it goes that way, I'm gonna demand your interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u249	There's only one way I can respond to this. For I have found elements of what was wrong, but it was not hate speech, and I insist. Any more procedural? No, no, no. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. We have before us a solution that is systemic, which is complete and simple. With the simple formulation of the proposed amendment of the law, we eliminate the unconstitutional situation in Slovenia, eliminate the discrimination that has plagued same-sex couples for many years, even in Slovenia, and eliminate the inequality they have received. That is why we will be in the United Left or now speaking on my behalf, so of course I will support this solution because I think it is simply the best of possible solutions. If we are truly committed to freedom and equality, then I think that we cannot vote in today's vote differently than we do in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u251	Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u252	For me, the relationship between a man and a woman is between a man and a woman and a man and a woman. Why did I say that three times? Because I can say it publicly today. But when the law is enforced, I will be accused of intolerance, discrimination, homophobia, etc. So once again, for me, marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. In doing so, I do not deny the right of the same-sex people to live in partner communities. And once again, there is no need for us to change the Marriage and Family Relations Act as quickly as possible and overnight, rather than complementing the Partnership Act, which we have every opportunity to do. The minister prepared it, I don't know, just for form or for throwing sand in her eyes, because then she agreed to such a change so quickly that it changes something that is a centuries old tradition and which is a natural law. I will vote against this law and against the undemocratic process in the National Assembly, which we change, change, change, quickly, in an easy way, without much debate. You've seen a bunch of people outside protesting that we don't support this marriage. You're blowing it. You whistle at the whole tradition because you're talking about some equality where there can't be equality. Men and women aren't the same. But I am for a patient relationship, for cooperation, to respect each other, but not by breaking civil standards quickly and all along.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u253	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u254	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the novelty of the law. First reason. The change itself offers the possibility that children can be adopted by same-sex persons. This follows my firm belief that a child is not a right. A child is not just a wish. This also follows from the proposed amendment of the law itself, which, of course, I object to, the deletion of husbands and wives, which, in my view, is contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution, which states that the state protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood. How does he protect fatherhood and motherhood if there is no father and mother in the proposed marriage? If there's no more husband and wife. It's over. You're talking about rights. Full of human rights in this hall. I repeat, today we mark one anniversary, the sixth anniversary of the discovery of crimes in the Devil's Cave. Before you will soon be another novelty of the law — will you support the rights of the dead to your grave or will they remain only and only rights? Mouth. Nothing else. I will oppose this law myself because it came through the back door of the National Assembly because it will also be supported through the back door. That's what it looks like. There was no serious debate, no serious debate within Parliament, no serious debate on the basis of which Members could then make a thorough decision. So my vote is against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u255	Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote, as I have always said on all committees, against this law, because it changes the understanding of the Slovenian family, changes the understanding of the family that the family is the father, the mother and, of course, the child – where the day is. Where there's no right, where there's a gift and somehow a husband and a wife are replaced by two people. I will not support the law on my own; today there was much debate about adoptions that they would not have the right, but they would have the opportunity to put themselves in line for adoption, it is almost the same for me, having the opportunity or putting themselves in line. Either you get it now or you wait – the purpose is the same. And what worries me most is discrimination based on conscientious objection. It seems to me that we have not talked enough about this possibility of conscientious objection for all working in the public sector today at today's meeting and also at the Committee's meetings. I'm afraid we don't even know what it means when all things go in the direction of somehow taking a man and a woman out of society, and that someone who works on their conscience who respects a woman as a man and a man as a man will not get a job in the public sector. That's why, once again, I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u257	Mr Matjaž German has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u258	Thank you. In case my child is gay or lesbian, I'd like him to have the same rights as I have. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u259	I'm asking you again for your application. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u260	Thank you very much. The bread denied is most eaten, Mr. German. And so to say that you're so sure, I wouldn't, well, my voice will go against it, because we're not all the same and we'll never all be the same. Will you also write laws for the blind and the deaf, that they may see and hear, because they are also in fact discriminated against, according to us who see and hear. I don't think you will, because even if you're writing them, I don't know how many, you're not gonna make it. And also by this law, which is written and likely to be passed, I am interested in how many of them we will discover or save the spondour that keep silent that they are homosexuals. Are we really going to do this? And even though it's a reduced procedure, that we brought this law through the back door and quickly adopted it, I have to be against it. At the same time, of course, I hope that you will not continue to label us with homophobics and smile at us, czech, poor poverty conservative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u261	Violet Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. After more than 20 years of fighting for the equalization of same-sex and diversified partners, it is finally time for us to assume our responsibilities without delay and ensure equality before the law for all citizens and residents of Slovenia. It is simply to ensure equality in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, in particular Article 14 thereof, which stipulates that we are all equal before the law and that any distinction on the basis of personal circumstances is unconstitutional and discriminatory. The two judgments of the Constitutional Court, which state that the same sex and diverse partnership are essentially the same, are also binding on us to eliminate such discrimination and to adopt the legislation that is now on the table. This means that there is no legitimate factual or legal reason for unequal treatment before the law. I will therefore be happy to vote in favour today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u263	Explanation of the vote in its own name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u264	Thank you very much. None of us are the same, we're all different. However, we in the National Assembly must ensure that they are equal. And by this law we achieve this at least on some points. So far, it has been believed that marriage is only between a man and a woman, not to end this present, but to establish that it can be between a man and a man, a woman and a woman and a woman and a woman and a man. So the rights are spreading, so I'm going to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u265	Mr Franz Jurša has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The contents of the novel Law on marriage and family relations in my explanation of vote will not be highlighted. But I'm going to say that I don't object to solving all questions for same-sex couples. Of course, I would like to draw attention to the coalition contract, where we wrote some things down by coalition partners from the left and right. This is especially the case with the Minister. Discussion on family policy. We will provide a wide-ranging expert debate on a new family policy resolution that will serve as a basis for the protection of the rights of children and of all forms of modern partnerships and families. Where is this debate? Why didn't you submit it? Because of this novel of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, unfortunately, I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u267	Looks like another round. Please sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u268	I'll support this marriage. Above all, they confirm these discussions and explanations when I see how one group is compared to another group. You won't believe it, but a colleague who told me before me that it was impossible to compare the deaf and the blind. About 30 years ago, doctors advised the deaf not to report because they would otherwise give birth to deaf children. Genocide, if you understand what I'm talking about. Your hand swing just said that your generation would outgrow you. My daughter is for, I hope she's yours, too, because the second generation is already thinking differently, so we need to keep looking. I wouldn't applaud too much where it's not necessary, because I've already said that they're going to have problems, and that's a very big problem, especially with those who won't have that right in their lives, even though they'll have it. We have a pattern and a mirror of Slovenian space here in this House. Approximately this percentage will still oppose in the Slovenian space. But I am pleased that the majority is in favour and that I support and believe that in a little while this space will grow smaller and smaller and it will simply explode, we will become equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u269	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. I will, of course, support this law, which we have submitted or these amendments that we have tabled in the United Left. What we're doing is redefining the marriage. It's not about the relationship between a man and a woman anymore. It's about the relationship between two people. Why? Why do we want to do this in every way? Simply because family is a social and not natural fact. And since this is a social fact, biological sex has no place in the definition of a family, and there is no excuse at all for restricting the rights of a group of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, as is the case now. And what we do in the United Left is just and only that this discrimination based on ideology, that family is natural, not a social fact, we eliminate. However, those who insist on opposing equality on an explicit or silent basis that the family is a matter of biological sex and not of society claim something similar to that of land flat. In short, I think it's time that we stepped out of the period in which we walked on a flat earth and set foot on a round earth, correcting this discrimination, correcting this unconstitutional state. I'll sign it myself, and I'll back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u271	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u272	Your Honor! The SDS was the one who proposed amendments to the law to regulate those provisions that somehow follow the Constitutional Court, but that does not mean that the words of men and women are deleted from the law. Also not to enforce a person. Just because I'm a mom means I can't be a dad. But the father of my children can't possibly be a mother. I'm a mother and not a parent one or a person one. And if this is, Your Honor, the transition to the 21st century, then thank you very much. I'm staying a mother and not a person.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u273	I guess there'll be another round of reasons in his own name, so I'm asking you to apply. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. I will not vote politically. I will vote on my conscience, I will vote in favour. Why would I do that? As colleague Anja Bah Žibert said, she is a woman and colleague Jean is a man, as was said earlier in the debate. And that's what they're gonna do. Family is a living community of parents and children. That's how it's gonna stay. For the law does not change the family in any way. The marriage is now going to be a two-person community. That's a change. And that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u275	Mr Janez Janša has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u276	I'm not gonna break the law first because of the procedure itself. There was some kind of blitzkrieg, Slovenia is the only country that eliminates sex after a reduced procedure without any discussion. It's just getting out of the law. The right to adopt is thus quietly taken by old parents, at the same time given to same - sex couples. Adoption of children is not a human right. There's no more dilemma about that. All mermaids have confirmed this at all levels. Children have human rights because they're human. And these rights must be protected first. Before the rights of minorities. There is a universal act of modern civilisation, the most important act adopted in the international community, this is a general declaration on human rights. Article 16 states that "men and women of all ages have the right, without any restriction on race, nationality or religion, to enter into a marriage and to establish a family". And it goes on to say, "family is natural," gentlemen of the United List, of course, "and the fundamental cell of society and has the right to social and state protection." That's human rights. Adoption of children is not a human right. This law is essentially rejected, and there have been well-intentioned discussions among supporters, but they are not aware of the consequences we will face. But I don't think an extended government coalition is aware of what it's doing. But everything that is likely to be written tomorrow, the key anti-crisis and development measures of the expanded government coalition are under the roof, but it has not eliminated unemployment, but it has eliminated gender.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u277	As I see it, we've exhausted the explanation for the voice. So we can go to the vote. We're voting. 84 Members were present and 51 were voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism following a Short Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the other amendments under consideration to the amended law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Law-Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, 65 of whom were voted against, and none were opposed. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 66 for whom there was a vote, and none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship following a reduced procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 2. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Desus, SD and SMC to Article 6. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present and 59 voted against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[It's 63 votes.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosives and pyrotechnic articles by Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 52. [[It was voted for by 27.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 28. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[It was 76 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the draft law has already proposed in the debate that the assembly, under Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 65 votes against none. [[It's 65 votes.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold a third debate on the proposal for a law on Monday, 9. 3. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is the defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the seat between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Centre for the Development of Finance. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law referred to the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present and 72 were voted against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on cooperation between the European Union and its member states and the Kingdom of Norway in the field of satellite navigation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, with 80 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. POLAND, REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, SLOVAKOVAKOVA, REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, IRELAND, THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE KINGDOM OF THE REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, IRELAND, THE KINGDOM OF LUXEMBOURG, MALTO, THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, THE PORTUGAL REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF LAW, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF SLINKOVENIA. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 for whom there were votes in favour, and none against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the change from the Kyoto Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Regrettably, there are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, with 80 votes in favour and none against. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Large Partnerships and Cooperation between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 72 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on Partnerships and Cooperation between the European Union and its member states on the one hand and the Republic of the Philippines on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment of the amendments was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, it is not possible to make an investment at the meeting of the assembly, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 73 voted against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is on questions of Members and Members A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers has been published on the e-Cloup. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Tank, the assembly will set out on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožet Tank's question on the integrity of public officials. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u278	Thank you very much. In recent times, the President of the Government has repeatedly interpreted integrity in a strange way. For one of the officials, the Court of Auditors found that he had violated eight laws in his work, an enormous amount of laws, virtually every law that this official had received in his hands, suffered his violation. It is the former President of the KPK Senate, Goran Klemenčič, who is also a minister in this government. The President of the Government replied that he still met the integrity criteria, was ahead of appointment and was still in the process of performing that function. Recently, the Supreme Court found that the same official who headed the KPK was called Goran Klemenčič, by his decision, also violated the human rights protected under article 22 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has ruled, the decision of this Chamber has been decided, it is said that this victory has disappeared, but the President of the Government says that Goran Klemenčič still has sufficient integrity to perform an important public function, that is, the Minister of Justice. The government is supposed to decide on the DURB tomorrow. It is also said that the Court of Auditors’ report on DUTB will play an important role in the decision of the Government. I would like to know if that report will have the same weight as the Court of Auditors' report in the event of a finding of infringements by the KPK Senate. If the President of the Government speaks of integrity, then in similar cases, on the basis of similar documents and the same institutions, he must do the same. As there are these major differences between what is recorded, how the President of the Government is doing, and how it is enshrined in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which states that integrity is expected to function and responsibility of individuals and organisations in preventing and eliminating risks, that authority, function, authority or other decision-making powers be used in contravention of the law, legally permissible objectives and ethical codes, I think it is necessary to hold a debate to see whether they hold the provisions of the law or hold the interpretations of those living and managing this country from Murgel. I think this is an important debate, and I suggest you support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u279	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravko Počvalska and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mags. Dejan Židan on the question of the delegation by Dr. Franz Trče in connection with hydraulic fragmentation in Petišovci. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, chairman. All afternoon, we witnessed unhomophobic love, including those who voted against the law. I hope that some of this love is also left in the love of nature or if you want to go to the environment and space. I've been addressing three ministries. There has been some discrimination between the Minister of Agriculture and the economy, which advocates the preservation of first-class agricultural land and the development of a particular economy, particularly geothermal tourism in Prekmurje, and, on the other hand, the Minister, who, I must say, was slightly under the influence of probably an energy lobby. Since this is a very important topic, which is not even considered or regulated by law, of course, in the United Left coalition, which also has its important ecological work, we have decided to open up this subject and I think that we will also vote in favour of it from this love and environment and space, not just us, that there will be a thorough debate about it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u281	Dr László Göncz has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Nationalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I myself have asked a similar question as Mr Trček to the Minister for the Environment. But before that, I have asked four questions from the Members on this subject. Unfortunately, there was no clear answer to that. But there are more and more doubts about this issue. But regardless of this, mainly because of the actual marital gap that is occurring in this area and also because the professional interpretation is very diverse and as has been said so far by many controversies, and because the situation in Prekmurje is now quite upset by the most recent issues that I do not intend to mention here, I think this kind of debate would certainly be welcome because we would be pursuing some content that will increasingly stir the spirits of this society. We don't have the right answer, and we don't have the right marriage solutions. So we will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u283	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Violete Tomić's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejana Jedana to the question of Violeta Tomić regarding the establishment of a state forestry company. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the news recently echoed in the public that the Minister of Agriculture wants to establish a state-owned company Slovenski forestovi, d. o. o. Such an attempt has already failed the previous government. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment has already proposed this proposal at its urgent session 4. 4. 2012, and now this idea has reemerged in this composition. At that time they were the reason for the forestry concession or were supposed to be acorns, and now they are concessions that expire in 2016. Since this project can have a truly fatal impact on Slovenia and its inhabitants, I propose that we take this issue very seriously. We are talking about assets worth more than one million to 5 billion euros and at least 13% of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Some compare this project even with the new TEŠ 6. It foresees the establishment of a new company in charge of trade in timber. To this end, the company is expected to transfer to this new country all state forests, which are about 235 thousand hectares and have been owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia since 1993 and owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Since we want to keep it that way, we ask for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u285	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Pursuant to the proposal of Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of the Member State of Ludmila Novak concerning the elimination of non-compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, U-I-425/06. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 54. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of Mr Ljub Žnidar's delegation concerning the financing of the implementation of agricultural land commissions. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Chairman. The specific structure of agricultural land in Slovenia is extremely poor because it is extremely fragmented and is still important in the strategy for as much self-sustainment as possible in Slovenia. The rural development programme 2014-2020 does not provide for financial support to the Commission as a stand-alone measure. In the period 2007-2013, this is said to have been financed by a 100 % financial support measure. However, the 2014-20 programme will only subsidise this measure with other investments at 50%. Since the rural development programme 2014-2020 for the agricultural future in Slovenia is very important, I propose that a public debate be held in which all agricultural stakeholders must be included in order to address these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u287	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 22 for them and 48 for them. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, Mr Daniel Krivac, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen to Mr Daniel Krivec's question on the implementation of the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning municipal waste water. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! On the question of correspondence, I drew the Minister's attention to one very important regulation and to the obligation of the operational route of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water, which runs out for certain areas in Slovenia in 2015 and for the remaining areas in 2017. The Minister was very exact in her responses, at least as far as the current situation is concerned. For larger agglomerations in Slovenia, this coverage is somewhere 70%. According to the population units above 2 000 and below 2 000 population units, this programme is completed at about 20%. This means that by the end of the year following this Regulation, which is now in force, both local communities and individuals will have to build small cleaning plants in those areas defined as special. In spite of the fact that an adequate three-point well has already been built, owned or by construction permit, which is recognised by all other regulations in the European Union as a small cleaning plant. In this way, we are causing our citizens unduely high costs, without need. The Minister's reply in this part, when I asked her whether it made sense to invest such large amounts of private and local communities in achieving a larger 10% improvement in wastewater treatment, was not. There was also no reply as to whether it planned any amendment that would at least extend that period for the implementation of those Regulations by 2017 or possibly even longer. If I make a comparison, it is in Germany this year 2020. It is said that in Slovenia, in these pre-accession negotiations, we have accumulated some of the obligations that are now hitting the most those who live in areas where construction is dispersed. Given that certain areas fall under this Regulation at the end of this year and that the local communities do not have the funds envisaged, and even fewer individuals, I think that this issue must be seriously discussed. In this direction, the Minister was also inclined to do so, so I suggest that you support this debate and that we resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u289	We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 28 were voted against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanislave Setnikar Cankar, to the question of the delegation of Mr Miha Kordiš, on co-financing of the doctoral study. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Why do I feel or feel in the United Left that the Minister's answer to our question about co-financing a doctoral study should be discussed? In fact, it's very simple. We just have to look at the Minister's answer. In view of the co-financing of the doctoral study for the generations that started this study in 2013, 2014 and it appears that it will continue this way in 2015, perhaps even further, it will not. In her reply, the Minister may not be quite straight, but she certainly has said sufficiently that generations of these students can be wiped out under the nose for some means. And such a policy actually eliminates social mobility, abolishes the perspective of meritocracy. What this means for some development policy, for some science and knowledge policy, I probably don't have to stress in particular. At the same time, we have been doing a lot of talking today about discrimination in the field of co-financed doctoral study, which also seems to me to be discrimination, concrete discrimination based on material status. At this point in time, only those who are able to pay for it from their own pocket can afford doctoral studies. Such policies and such responses by the Minister are particularly unacceptable in the context of everything that is going on in the area of higher education. In addition, events, developments, materials coming to the public by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in the field of higher education show that if this goes on, we can expect a street within a few months by students and by university workers. Perhaps a debate in the United Left on the question of the Minister's response to the co-financing of a doctoral study could help to resolve this situation, without a few thousand being previously summed up, perhaps ten thousand dissatisfied students and university workers on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u291	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[It was voted in favour of 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Moromir, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the implementation of the threshold for compulsory entry into the system of value added tax accounting. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u292	Thank you for saying so, Mr President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will, of course, support the proposal. What's this all about? Last year, when the coalition was already falling apart, the National Assembly adopted a tax double, namely the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and the amendment of the Income Act and raised the threshold for so-called flatlists, of course, it is a small economy, with 50,000 annual turnover per 100,000 annual traffic. These two novels entered into force with 1. 1. 2015, but the effects of these two laws are somehow paralysed. Why? This is because those who are liable to value added tax and who are obliged to enter the VAT system at 50,000 turnover do not actually benefit from the removal of administrative barriers. We have already written twice to the government, formerly and also to current Dr. Mir Cerar, and have proposed to amend article 94 of the Value Added Tax Act and to raise the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system from 50,000 to 100,000. This would somehow bring us closer to comparable countries, and I am sure that this matter would be welcomed mainly by the Slovenian small economy, which represents 99% of the total Slovenian economy. The broad debate in the National Assembly in some way is in fact pointed out by Mr. Finance Minister Dr. Marble, already in the first sentence of his committee, which states, I quote: "I must also say that the aim of the Ministry of Finance is also to reduce the administrative burden which the economy in particular has on the economy as much as possible in the tax area and in this regard we have embarked on a specific action plan to reduce these administrative burdens." Ladies and gentlemen, I think the State Council has something to say here. We're all in the field. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats make regular monthly field visits and listen to what the economy tells us in particular. We do not come up with solutions, but we listen to what the economy needs in order to actually better focus on its core business so that it can better develop new products, open new markets and so on, not deal with paperwork. This is a well-meaning proposal and, as the New Slovenia Group has said, will support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u293	We vote. There are 76 Members present and 22 votes against 49. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen to Mr Zvonka Lah's question on the preparation of amendments to spatial and building legislation. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u294	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was not satisfied with the Minister's response. In the area of space regulation in Slovenia is a real anarchy. More than 100 municipalities do not have accepted municipal spatial plans to be adopted by 2009. The placement of state-of-the-art projects into space takes several years, including 10, 15 years, such as the second track, such as the motorway, the valley leg. Then we have over tens of thousands of blacksmiths, about 300,000 buildings built in non-compliance with regulations, we have long-term procedures for obtaining construction permits, which drives away mainly foreign investors, since the Czech Republic has five times more foreign investments than Slovenia. We have specific cases where that's why foreign investors went elsewhere. While the government also has the Spatial Planning Act and the Construction Act in its normative programme for 2015, nothing is yet being done as far as we know. However, the preparation of such laws is long-term if we want them to be good, so that we can correct everything that is delayed, that rules such as those of Western countries will be made available, that we will allow faster acquisition of building permits, placement in space, and also in due time prepare all necessary for foreign investors who are and are interested in investing in Slovenia. But with us, as if we don't want them, as if we don't need new jobs, we don't need money in the budget. Here we do not need money in preparing this legislation and adopting it, because we know we do not have it, but we do need expertise and will, so I appeal that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on this issue, which is essential for regulating the situation that we have in our country. If we do not do so, it is difficult to expect new investments from both our economy and foreigners, even though the Prime Minister of the Government has stated that we will do everything possible to have foreign investors come. So I ask you to confirm that we have a debate on this and speed it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u295	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the closure of paediatric outpatients. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will support the request for a debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You may have noticed in the media that in the municipalities of Gorenje vas - Poljane, Žiri and Railways, pediatric ambulances are being closed. You'll say yes, according to the law it belongs to the primary level, so it's in the community domain. That's right. That's right. However, the main reason why these ambulances should be closed is that they should no longer be suitable for amending the law or regulation on vaccination, which is not in force at all. This rule will only be adopted in the spring, so I think it is in the Ministry of Health's domain. The Minister said that she was not aware of this change and that she could not answer me at the moment, but that she would ask, and therefore I think it is right to hold this debate and then invite her to the debate. I believe she'll have her answers by then. This will represent additional costs for parents, for businesses. So far, there's been a pediatrician there once a week, and now he's gone. Serums store up to plus 4, up to plus 8 degrees, this lasts already refrigerated bag, so it's not true that the spaces are not suitable. Serums and vaccines did not change from yesterday to today, nor did the premises or outpatients change from yesterday to today. They're still appropriate to you, and therefore there's no reason for these pediatric clinics to stop. It's also important where it's eliminated. This is abolished in the Polish and Sevska valleys, in the two valleys with the highest fertility in the country, and in the two valleys with the lowest unemployment in the country, which logically means that we make the most of our contributions and that we at least get back. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u297	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar on the question of the Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček in connection with the exploitation of self-employed in culture. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Irena Majcen to the question by Dr Franc Trčko on the supervision of concessionaires in water management. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. When I talked to my colleague Göncz about culture in Maribor, he said, because in fact 90% of you are right, any area we open up is pushing us out of 8 systemic problems. This is one such area, we don't have water communities, we have concessionaires who work very hard, and after all it's a lot of money. If we go to the Supervisor for a little while, these are gentlemen who are quite a few in judicial proceedings, and especially in recent times they've been sprawling as they please, along with and through watercourses. My previous proposal on Prekmurje has clearly shown that most Members and Members of the Prekmurje are not interested, they are probably not interested in both buttocks or claws, but because we are mostly made up of water, I hope that you will at least be interested in this subject and that you will support it, although I must say that I am a little skeptical because this instrument in the National Assembly does not work, the coalition is voting against and we will probably have to drive these content through the committees in particular. I hope you're denouncing me with this vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u299	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, to Violet Tomić's question on young people with serious behavioural and emotional disorders. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. Although I have very little hope that this proposal will be put to the vote, let us try. We were aware that this country is not adequately provided for the treatment, training and education of children and adolescents with severe behavioral and emotional problems. These are children and adolescents who were the victims of domestic violence when they were young. There is no suitable accommodation for them in our health and social care system. It is too often that protective institutions or youth homes, despite a decision to install, refuse the admission of such children and, as a result, such children and adolescents may be treated in extreme cases even in protected wards of psychiatric hospitals, along with adult patients, which is unacceptable. The treatment of children with severe behavioural disorders has been maintained for at least 10 years, which constitutes a serious violation of children's rights. When these children and adolescents are 18 years of age, they are officially no longer a problem because they are full - grown. But neglecting this problem is an indescribable suffering that often ends with suicide. Many of them are also endangering their surroundings, including, unfortunately, juvenile murderers and full - time offenders of worse crimes. A lot of this suffering could be prevented without a lot of money. Therefore, although the Minister has promised to solve this problem, she would have asked for a more serious hearing, since the Ombudsman had already said six years ago that the State which should act had cancelled in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u301	We're voting. There were 68 Members and Members present, 24 of whom were voted against and 44 against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Jank Vebar, Minister of Defence, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the issue of defence expenditure. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u302	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as spending on the defence budget is concerned, we are currently in a state of conflict. On the other hand, both Prime Minister Miro Cerar and Prime Minister Miro Cerar have repeatedly held the position that the percentage of gross social product that we are spending on defence needs to be raised and, on the other hand, Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Defence, for example, belongs to the political option, the Social Democrats, which advocates a fiscal rule. At the same time, the Government has sworn not to say directly that it will do absolutely nothing on the revenue side of the budget. The only way they are left to raise the Ministry of Defence’s spending, or specifically the military’s, is to take that money in another area — pensions, scholarships, wherever they are, simply have to take it somewhere if they want to make their words come true. My question was where exactly these funds were meant to be found. We didn't get any concrete answers. Let me add that the Minister himself has repeatedly pointed out that they currently support defence costs mainly at the level of staff. So it's cut into equipment, it's cut into investments, but they're trying to keep their wages and everything else at about the same level. Given that the composition of the Slovenian army is approximately as planned, it means that additional funds can only be made for investments in hardware, it is said in equipment, for new floors and for some similar toys. In the United Left, we suggest that the reply he gave may not be better said, but that Minister Weber in this National Assembly is having a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u303	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u304	Thank you, President. I will support my colleague Kordiš in his request for a debate, although I do have diamitral opposite views. I am in favour of raising the defence budget, which is why I think it is right to hold a debate. Quo exercises, we can say Slovenian defence policy. I think we haven't followed our defense doctrine in a long time. Slovenia will soon not even be able to guarantee those commitments and demands, the tasks that are in law in defence. We know that last year, at the NATO Summit in Wales, Slovenia pledged to give 2% of GDP for defence by 2020 and within these two percentage points to give 20% for investment. At present, investments are only 3% and we are on the very tail of the NATO states. I believe that the equipment provided by the Slovenian military is inadequate to update the equipment. Last but not least, we send our soldiers on a mission abroad, which is right, because only if our neighbouring countries are stable does that mean that we are safe. That is why I support these missions, and I think it is right that we are there. However, it is not necessary to finally discuss where this defence policy will go, how our commitments to NATO will go, how much we will give for defence, how much we will give for investment, especially, whether we will continue to lie to our colleagues about NATO, how we will meet these and those requirements, or how we will just tell them in their faces, "Look, guys, girls, we are not going to do this anymore. We'll give it up for defense as long as we can."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u305	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 46. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. At the same time, I would like to express my special thanks to all the sick Members who have participated in today's vote despite the disease. I want you to get well as soon as possible. I'm adjourning the 5th session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
