ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Jasna Murgel, Mr Uroš Prikl, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Jan Škoberne and Mr. Andrej Chuš. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman to the 24th item of the agenda, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petra Gasperšič, at the 28th item of the agenda, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, mag. Dejana Jedjan on agenda item 29 and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 October 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, apologies were made for today: Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, from 3 p.m. on and Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question will be asked by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u2	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, ministerial assembly! The company for the management of bank claims or bad bank was established on the basis of the belief that its establishment is a good or only solution for the stabilisation of the banking system, the removal of the credit crunch and the relaunch of the Slovenian economy. There has been a public statement and it is still clear that you and your government share this belief. But the question is how will the functioning of the DUTB be independent in the future. In view of the dismissal of two members of the DUTB board, Mr Nyberg and Mr Mansson, the Government has done without a proper argument, and it is justified to assume that the reason for the replacement was not that the benefits were resolved, but that some lobbies and networks have pressed on the government and succeeded in replacing it. The DUB is operating now with almost EUR 2 billion, and it is those who are allegedly the most guilty of the bank hole and, as a result, the establishment of a bad bank that are of course of great interest to regain influence over these claims. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! As a reason for your relief, you first stated that there was a lack of trust, then that they acted unlawfully, but at the same time – pay attention! – several members of the government simultaneously said that the DUB was doing well. So you did the relief at the same time when you claim that the DUB is doing well. But replacing someone who does well is not the wisest and wisest move. DutB has its faults, of course, and we also agree with this in the New Slovenia Group. And these mistakes need to be corrected immediately. However, the government’s solution to the two leaders is not the right one, nor does it inspire the trust that the DUTB mission will continue to search for the best buyers for inherited claims. In view of the fact that you exposed the rule of law and the fight against corruption at the time before the elections, I am interested in: Will the Government, in the event of pressure on the DUTB, open an investigation and investigate the above-mentioned pressures? If she's going to investigate them, I'd like to know: What will you do about it? Dear Prime Minister, I also ask you: What law or act did the members of the Governing Board violate to act unlawfully? Has the government cloned under pressure from lobbying and networks, as confirmed in a public letter by the former non-executive director, Mr Nyberg, and has therefore resolved both leaders in the DUTB? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u3	Dr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Let me first make it very clear that the Government has not taken these decisions without an argument. Nor did the government succumb to any lobbying pressures, no pressure from stakeholders. With the simple discharge of Mr Nyberg and Mr Mansson's resignation, the government has put the law into effect. Of course, it is the Government's wish, and we have also given this encouragement several times in public statements that DUTB continues to work normally as it is in accordance with the law, in accordance with the mission of this institution and, of course, professionally appropriate. You know that we have dismissed Mr Nyberg, Chairman of the Management Board of DutB, for violating the duties of the members of the Management Board, following Article 8 of the Law on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. At the same time, we called off the Chief Executive Director, Mr Mansson, because of the loss of confidence in him, and we acted in the role of the DUDB Assembly. In both cases, we have taken into account their position, their conduct and their documents, the evidence underlying our decision. Mr Nyberg violated the duty of a member of the DUTB Management Board because he did not ensure that the remuneration of all members of the DUTB Management Board was aligned with the applicable DUTB remuneration policy adopted by the Government this year on 6 March 2015. This current remuneration policy has imposed the DutB on the Governing Board to implement this policy into a decision in individual contracts, which of course has not happened and which we have repeatedly pointed out fails. In particular, Mr Nyberg, speaking of the main matter, as Chairman of the Management Board, just before the adoption of the new DUTB revenue package, which had already been published as a proposal at that time, signed an annex to the employment contract with the Executive Director, which is not in line with the DUB remuneration policy adopted by the Government as early as 2013, 18 July 2013. And for the period from 1 August 2014 to 30 June 2015, that is, mainly in retroactive terms, this annex increased the fixed share of Mr Mansson’s remuneration by 80 %. It's 36,900 euros gross a month. In addition, it allowed this remuneration to be paid for the period until 30 June 2015, which is forward, which is contrary not only to the remuneration policy as applicable but also to the general rules of remuneration. Mr Nyberg, as Chairman of the Management Board, has also violated his tasks and has not even responded to the relevant calls of the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, it did not ensure that the operation of the DUTB, including the remuneration, would fully comply with the requirements of the Court of Auditors. With regard to Mr Mansson's appeal, let me say that the Government has decided on his withdrawal because of the loss of confidence and the fact that he, as a member of the Management Board, also had elements of non-compliance with the decisions and acts of the Government. He was therefore called off for loss of confidence and for co-responsibility in this failure to respect the conclusions, as he should also be the Chief Executive Director of ensuring that the company operates in accordance with government rules, decisions and acts. Let me add that, of course, with regard to the other activities of the Management Board, there has been no evidence of any direct misdemeanour being committed, any major or similar infringement. The Ministry of Finance was not informed of the matter by this annex, nor was the Ministry informed, nor was it informed by the Ministry until data were obtained on the specific payments, so it was not able to act as this was not disclosed, so the Ministry of Finance was not able to do so. Let me point out to the end that, with these discharges, we removed what was negative and allowed the DUTB to function normally. It is normal to expect that work with all the current members of the committee we trust will continue normally in accordance with the laws and tasks they have. This is by no means a political intervention in the work of the DUTB or even less for any lobbyist pressure that the Government would have been inclined to do here, but simply for that, I repeat, to ensure the legality, responsibility and transparent functioning of this important institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u5	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your answer, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. You said we removed what was negative. I'm asking you again, but that was negative, according to the words of Minister Marble, too. That negative worked well. So it's hard to accept the argument that that was negative. At the very least, what we would expect, or what the public would expect, is that the contents of Nyberg's letter, which states that Minister Marble told him that pressure was being exerted on him, that this content was also completely denied by Minister Marble himself and publicly stated that Mr Nyberg was misleading him in that letter and that he was not under pressure. But if I recall correctly, last week's finance minister didn't want to talk to the press about whether he even agreed to this resolution, the discharge of the Executive Director of the DUTB. And it follows from this that the argument in this regard was not fully established. The question is further raised regarding the new executive directors whom you appointed in the spring, including Mr Marko Simoneti, who has now succeeded Mr Nyberg at the head of the DutB Management Board. At that time, you said that the new executives were appointed to eliminate all the anomalies that occurred in the operation of the DUTB. So it's been more than half a year since then, but even though they knew about them, they're still happening. And again, the impression is that the government has solved those who were part of the negative, or those who were disturbed, in this case, Mr Nyberg and Mr Mansson, while those who are said to be ours remain in their positions. So if Mr. Simonetti and the team you named failed to remove the DUTB anomaly in six months, even though she knew about them, I ask you : Will these anomalies be capable [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u7	Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much. These claims, attributed to the Ministry of Finance, have already been rejected by the Ministry of Finance in a public and reasoned manner, debarred, in short, uncontained. The fact that it was negative is, of course, to be clarified. It is very difficult for me to imagine that someone who violates all the rules on salaries, which operates in some way questionable already in the first part – remember that the Government has rejected the DUTB discharges for 2013 and that the Court of Auditors has had a number of comments on the work and salary policy of this institution – so what is negative, which is not right, must be eliminated. If someone violates all the rules in the pay system, in the reward system, and then does something good on the other end, and dutb of course has done a lot of good already, that does not mean that this person will be able to do it. It's called consenting to corruption. It is the duty of the government to prevent this from being made possible at the same time, and we are doing so, not by political interference with the work of this institution, but by acting as a congregation in accordance with our responsibilities. We're allowing the DUTB to function normally now. I am sure that even in the short term, when it is complete with new members, it will also probably be from an international environment, i.e. relevant experts from abroad, it will be strengthened to act easily in accordance with the guidelines it has by law and in accordance with its competences. So I just can't agree to such a claim. But I am sure, and as I said, the non-executive directors enjoy our trust, no indications, no evidence that they would be involved in these actions that Mr Nyberg has done and that I have described before. Our trust DUTB enjoys, we expect, as I said, that it will work forward and that is simply everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u9	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u10	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable National Assembly, Ministers! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that the debate be held on this subject. Indeed, it is not about politicisation in this case, but about ensuring that the DUB continues to operate throughout the fullness that the DUB will continue to fulfil that basic mission. This practice, which we have been facing in recent weeks, has not been the best, and this is also discussed by domestic and foreign experts, this type of resolution practice needs to be changed, and with the Government President's reply that the argument was true, I am not fully satisfied. That's why I think we should talk about this. At the same time, I share my opinion with former Minister Šuštersič that it is necessary to obtain those people who are not involved in these Slovenian networks, who are not, after all, guilty of the bank hole. Such people are in Slovenia, you know, very few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u11	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. I will ask the Prime Minister about systemic corruption in Slovenia. It has been a year since they presented us to the government and we have expected much in eliminating the very systemic corruption, which is characterized by the fact that, on the one hand, institutions have been taken over because of such a method of recruitment, not by reference, but by some other criteria, and that legislation is taken by voting on the system to vote for what the government is presenting, not after some professional debate, but just because of the voting machine to comply with some systemic backgrounds. If we look at what is behind systemic corruption, we could define it as informal networks, lobbying, pressure groups. And that's exactly what investigative journalists have been pointing out lately in the media. In view of all of this, we expected very much from this team, because together, when we formed an interest group, it was precisely that we would go to informal networks in Slovenia, what prevailed that we won the elections with such a majority. In view of the above, I am interested in: What is the President and what has the party done at this time to eliminate the influence of these informal networks? What measures has the Government taken if it is possible to list them as taxis, precisely to eliminate these informal networks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u13	Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u14	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Now I will speak on behalf of the government, not the party, because I am here in this role. The government is trying, and I will also illustrate this, as you said, with a tax ruling, because time is not much to prevent systemic corruption. Of course, it would be very helpful if experts like you, like you, mentioned these networks, could help us with information on where they are, who they are, because then this work would be easier for her. But no matter what, we know it's very difficult. That wasn't ironic, but any help comes in handy. I reject any suggestion, however, that appointments are made not by professional or other reference, but by some political criteria, in the public or public administration of this government. Except where this is allowed, for example, to fill the cabinets according to a political criterion, this government is doing its utmost, and I think the thing is very transparent to recruit by taking into account mainly the professional references and all those other elements, such as trust and the rest, which is important for the positions that are called administrative and other workers. I must also say that I reject the argument about the voting machine. I think with the facts, we can deny that there is no voting machine here. Of course, normally, the coalition often votes in one direction, sometimes even together we find a language with the opposition, but sometimes it happens that we vote differently within the coalition, and this is proof that we have an approach that is democratic, but that we follow a common programme, so the coalition is most often coordinated. And that's what citizens expect. Specific programmes and measures. The preparation of the proposal for a law on the revision of TES 6 is a very important revision that we have in the plan in the coalition agreement. Measures relating to a bank hole. This is about identifying past corruption in banking transactions. We are very active in public procurement in the health sector, and we are dealing with concrete measures in addition to the general public procurement solutions that Minister Koprivnikar also runs, where we want to limit or disable all possibilities for corrupt practices. In the field of health, an information solution is also being prepared for the general public procurement of medicines, medical devices and equipment, which will ensure greater transparency in this area because there have been a lot of bad practices here. Then we have many measures regarding the reduction of corruption risks in public administration. Additional training for public administration employees is under way, the establishment of a single national risk register and so on. The contents are also given in the public administration development strategy and the national reform programme. Let me stress, however, that the Government has also tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest, which we all know. This is about the fact that a relatively short investigation of any major project can be carried out in a relatively short time where doubts about the correctness, economy or reasonable continuation of work on such a project would arise. This is very important, because we know how many such projects have gone to the sidelines in the past. In 2015, which is a very important, very operational data, the police continued to focus on economic crime in relation to detection, investigation of crimes, and especially corruption in banking transactions. Let me just point out one thing because there's no time. During the month of August, when the first interim government report was prepared, there were 113 suspected banking offences related to bad practices, including disputed loans and so on. The government included in the new Banking Act, which entered into force in May this year, a provision on the system of notification of bank infringements. Then let me state the active functioning of the Interdepartmental Working Group of representatives of the MJU, MP, MNZ and KPK, which aims to examine the current text of the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and their implementation in practice. This group is already working, the Commission has submitted its first interim report, which contains an overview of the problematic parts of the law as well as ideas for further action. Let me mention some of the laws in the field of justice that promote or impose the adoption of judicial codes, including state-of-the-art ethics, in short, raising standards. The amendments to the Penal Code are also prepared to raise the prescribed prison sentences for those most complex and serious corruptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u15	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you. We have heard some measures, but they do not directly touch this systemic corruption, which is the worst for Slovenia, which is also recognised by foreign institutions. As far as legislation is concerned, we see that the whole type of legislation proposed by the opposition is rejected as inappropriate and, on the other hand, fewer members of the coalition are prepared to debate on committees and are just waiting for a resolution to be voted on. As far as these pressures mentioned at the previous point are concerned, we would see that the former President of DUTB has informed us that these pressures exist, which are characteristic of systemic corruption. Those who remained in the DUTB are themselves involved in the conflict of interest, which is the greatest sign of this systemic corruption, says the two who remained, one is in conflict of interest because he works in Probank and the other is in conflict of interest because he had previously lobbied for some business for the Austrian Telecom. The president of Darsa’s Supervisory Board also warned us that he was under pressure from SDH. So these are the specific cases. The work inspectorate also informed us of a mistake in naming Father to lead the Owl, where you are directly involved. And we haven't got an answer for that either. These are some specific cases that have not been answered so far, but they point to systemic corruption in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u17	Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u18	I am having a hard time discussing with a distinguished colleague of Dobovsky, who is an expert in systemic corruption, but if the individual he thinks is wrong, let's say in a bad bank for a few years, he is a member of a bank's board of directors, in a conflict of interest this is, I don't know, a system of corruption. But I'll leave it to the profession. Systemic corruption is something else. We may have some kind of corruption or something, but I would have expected that we would have responded to it long ago by the judicial authorities, because it is some obvious fact that no one is troubled by except you. I will again check that we have not missed all the experts in Slovenia, politics, the competent institutions of this fact for several years in the DUTB that some have been in such a conflict of interest that this is a problem. I doubt, however, that I simply do not have any relevant data in this direction. I'd say so. It seems to me that it may be somewhat insulting to your fellow Members if you say that everyone is waiting for the debate to pass on the committee and then just vote. You know, sometimes the debate is that I understand that they're waiting for it to pass. If you know what I mean. But I am sure that both members of the coalition and the opposition, when they feel they have something to say, say so. I would not underestimate the colleagues here among you, so you honourable Members and Members, I am sure that what you want is to be expressed in a democratic debate, and that is also visible because the government also feels this critical plight of your work, monitoring our work. And that's right. With regard to some other matters, for example, the President of the Darcy Supervisory Board said he was making certain statements about the pressures of SDH. Here we are in an area where someone says something. If there has been undue pressure, the person who is the President of the Supervisory Board, as a citizen in particular as a person in such a function, is obliged to report the matter to the relevant institution, to act in his own power and procedures are initiated here. What is happening, what we have seen recently, when a president of the Supervisory Board came out in public, you have also commented in his direction, and then it turns out that everything is a lie, that you actually supported a lie, supported a pure fiction, which has led the entire profession and the public to become disdainful and this supervisory council then gave up. These are the problems. We operate on the government with concrete facts and evidence. As long as I don't have proof, I won't act. I'm an informed lawyer, and as President of the Government, I can't do that. But when it's proof when the facts, when the clues are triggered, we start the procedures. By continuing to be grateful for all relevant data and on the basis of it, we will act absolutely, both by the competent ministries and by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u19	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, do you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer? There's no replica. Only this procedural proposal is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u20	I then propose that, in the framework of the proposed legislation, given that the answers were not in line with the relevant facts in Slovenia, a debate be held in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u21	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to question Dr. Mir Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! In the process is the selection of a director to manage our largest healthcare facility UKC, which is also the largest consumer of public money in the health sector. The management of the UKC is a problem from the beginning, from the investment forward, because a lot of money has not been spent deliberately, i.e. for construction, for treatment, for health services and supplies, but money is supposed to flow through different channels and in different ways from the UKC system to predetermined advisers, quasi projects, overpaid suppliers, etc. One such company, which has had a monopoly on the supply of orthopaedic prosthetics by UKC for years, is Mark Medical, who has supplied more than €190 million of equipment. This company is part of KB 1909, which also has Dnevnik, Mladina. KB 1909 is considered to be the successor of Safti and you probably know the name of the company. But Mark Medical is not the only company with such a monopoly in the UKC. However, from political and professional practice, you probably know that where monopolies rule, there is no competition, there is no transparency, there is no rationality, and there is a great deal of potential for corruption and customerism in such conditions. For more than 10 years, the UKC has not experienced a serious review of the Court of Auditors to verify the correctness, intentionality and prudence of the use of funds, nor has it been possible to detect the serious activities of the investigating authorities in order to reveal the suspicions of customeristic corruption that we often hear about in the media. Such irregularities have also taken place in recent years, when the UKC led Mr Simon Vrhunec. The media report has the greatest impact on cash flows and staffing in the UKC, Mr. Janez Zemlaric. I ask you, given that the procedure for appointing the Director is under way: What references, personality characteristics and knowledge must a candidate who, as Prime Minister of the Government, would be supported by the UKC Director in order to break this clearly directed financial exhaustion of the UKC? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u23	Dr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Member! We are aware and aware, as you are, of the importance of the University Clinical Centre for Health Operations in Slovenia. Therefore, the Government is also working within its powers to support, in particular, the functioning of the Minister of Health and all the subsystems necessary to improve this situation in our health care, especially in the UKC. I find it difficult to comment on the practices of certain companies, some in Slovenia and abroad, which have so far purchased various technical devices, equipment and similar for UKC and other health institutions, centres, hospitals. We do know, however, that there has been a lot of information in the public sector that has shown that these calls have been very questionable, if not even corrupt. And all of these practices are being investigated as far as some of the data and facts are available. There is probably also a flaw – if it is true, here I must admit that I do not know now when the Court of Auditors was last there, but in fact also financial supervision and everything else, I agree, is very necessary. You have carried out these findings, which we can probably agree on in principle, in the question of what the future director of the UKC must do. In the invitation to tender, and this invitation to tender by the invitation to tender under the law, the following is required: higher education of the second level of study, five years of work experience in comparable jobs in the field of organisation, management and management, and should submit a work and development programme to the UKC. These are the legal terms. Of course, the Government wants to – so the Government does not directly decide – to emphasise that this candidate would also have other leadership skills, to be attached to the mission of health care, the medical profession, and to lead this important institution of UKC in this light, so that it will always act honestly to eliminate these negative practices and replace them with good practices to promote good and eliminate what is bad from the system. But it takes a lot of courage, a lot of knowledge and skill under these formal conditions. But let me point out, there's a procedure in progress. Of the seven candidates, five candidates remained in the narrower selection, meeting all the tendering conditions. On 7 October, the tendering commission found this. This will now be decided by the Council of the Institute this week, which is October 22nd. There is no interference here, the world of the institution is a professional body that will choose the candidate and appoint him. It is true, however, that it is very important that the Government then has to give consent to such appointment or fail to give it. And then it depends on the final outcome of this procedure. I assure you that in this process, when deciding on consent, the Government will examine whether all the legal conditions of the candidate or candidate are met and whether it meets those conditions within them that are important for us to trust him that he will successfully lead this so important clinical centre. Let me stress once again that even these insinuations, some background connections here, I would not like to comment. I think we need to focus on who's a good candidate here. Mr Janez Zemlaric's mention, this seems unnecessary in this narrow context. However, if anyone who is a candidate were to be perceived as having unacceptable influences, it is clear that the world of the institution itself should not appoint him and that the Government would never give consent to such influences if they were intense, unacceptable, obvious and similar. I'd end up here with an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u25	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Part of this unacceptable story you are talking about has already come to light, because Mr Andrej Baricič, who has been involved in many businesses, has participated in several controversial stories and connections. Last but not least, at the time he was a member of the UKC Supervisory Board, he competed for business with his partner. And these were the only two bids in the selection process, in which case it was a virtual process in which his partner got the deal. And this gentleman has obtained the approval of the Supervisory Board for the perpetrator of his duties. It is already said that this conflict of interest, which Mr Dobovšek referred to earlier in general, is directly present because, as a member of the institution's management body, in a seemingly fictitious process, it allowed the partner to obtain a business. It is also a problem that Mr Baričič, as soon as he took over the science, appointed as his advisor the Director and former Director of the Supreme Council, who enabled him to do this business and with whom they are neighbours at Bled. In short, it's not a coincidence, but it's probably a very well-processed game in which the lobby, which you said probably isn't there or I don't know what's going on with them, will bring the person who's involved in these many stories to the head of this UKC. As a matter of fact, the Minister and you yourself are working very hard to make Mr Andrej Baricič the director of the UKC. This is now indisputably clear. The minister gave her public support, followed by the Prime Minister of the Government. Now I want to know: Do the things you answered me about in the previous part when you talked about these high criteria still hold? It is obvious that she will be appointed director of the UKC and here she carries out the business of the perpetrator of the duties of the person involved in all these stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u27	Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Of course, it's about Mr. Baricic, whatever. I'd say here first in a way that's perfectly clear. I never tried to make him head of the UKC. However, I stated at a time when he became V.D. Director that I think that now that he is in this function, we must give him the opportunity to see if he can successfully take this matter forward. However, you need to know that many of the facts have started to appear in the media only after his appointment as a scientist and I assure you that all of this will certainly be examined by the Government. I am sure that these allegations about the possible inappropriate or unacceptable practices or activities of Mr Baricic will be scrutinised by the institution's world and, based on what we will get from the world, we will also examine the matter carefully in the Government, because we do not want any person to be in this place who can be disputed from this point of view. However, I think that the process is ongoing and that, at this stage, it is not even appropriate to carry out some kind of pressure that you are in some way trying to do directly through these questions to the Council of the Institute or to the Government, because the Government will decide here as it must, autonomously, after the best of its judgment, but will also have to take into account the decision of the Council of the Institute and the argument. So I think it is right that we now let this process run out, not least it will end very quickly, and this is also the interest of the institution, so I suggest we wait for the decisions of the board of institutions and then, of course, it is in the Government to define it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u29	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I propose, as you said, that a debate be held on the response of the President of the Government. I think that in all these developments related to the University Clinical Centre, it is more than obvious that it is a continuation of old practice, in fact, the task of both the Supervisory Board and the registered candidate is just that. It is obvious that Mr Baričič comes from the circle of Janez Zemlarič, even from some of his previous activities. And in this area, in order to break with some monopolies at the University Clinical Centre as regards the supply of material or the provision of services, it is unlikely to be expected. Mr Baričič was also in some very unusual way appointed as the institution's official of duties, namely overnight, without presenting himself in any way in the current supervisory world. You're talking about the work programme. He didn't introduce him. He went on vacation. So everything you say is about preventing various bad practices, corrupt practices, excluding the possibility of conflict and so on, without a legal basis. And there's something more than obvious right now. Mr President of the Government here allows himself to teach Members what we can ask what is worthy of the question and what is not worthy of it. The bigger problem is that the answers are not worthy. The Prime Minister's answers are misleading, incomplete, incorrect, inaccurate and relevant to the content and not to the question for which he was asked. We asked a question, even in this case we wanted clear and unequivocal answers, but there are none. If Mr President of the Government strongly advocated various ethical criteria and criteria, talked about excluding interests, talked about respect for the rule of law, he could have checked all of this with candidates who, and also with Mr Baricic, long ago. Not that we're losing ourselves here in some, I'm going to say, legal discourses on how to get around a matter and wait for the time devoted to parliamentary issues to pass. Madam Minister said without a doubt that Mr Baricic was in favour of all the cover he had brought to the post of Director of UKC. If the Minister says so and the cabinet of the Prime Minister does not respond, there must be a silent agreement behind him to take such a lead. And things are completely inconclusive for us in politics and for the people. It is said that the Government supports the continuation of bad practices in the UKC that will allow the operation of monopolies and unnecessary exhaustion of the UKC. Nothing will be done because there will be no money to shorten waiting times, waiting times, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u31	Mr Jože Tanko, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Primož Hainz, you have the floor to question Dr. Mir Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable President, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar! I'll ask you a question about the establishment of a demographic reserve fund. The Desus Group, as well as the Desus Party, have already made efforts to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension fund. This is one of our major commitments in this mandate as well. In the developed world, and Slovenia is part of this, major demographic changes are taking place in terms of the older population. These changes need to be adapted to the pension system and solutions needed to ensure the long-term stability of this system, i.e. greater financial and budgetary independence of the pension fund. This must ensure a decent level of pensions according to the work invested and taking into account the principle of intergenerational solidarity. For this we have received unanimous support and commitment from coalition partners. At the 3rd regular meeting of the National Assembly in December 2014, Mr President, we have already asked you a question regarding the timing and activities of the establishment of the demographic reserve fund, which is the basic solution to this problem. The deadline for the establishment of this fund laid down in the Slovenian State Holding Act is 31 12. In 2015, the legal basis for the establishment and operation of the demographic reserve fund is unstoppable and has not yet been incorporated into the legislative procedure. Again today I ask you: What's going on in this area? I ask you for a precise, clear answer: When are we going to adopt the law in the parliamentary bench? Given that the coalition has even been agreed and this is also stated in our agreement that the law should be adopted by 30 June 2015, we are particularly concerned about the government's inaction in this area. I'm also curious: Where and why did the matter somehow get stuck, given that this area of government was to be dealt with intensively during the year, as you yourself said before? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u33	Dr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The fact is that the Slovenian State Holding Act provides that the capital company shall be transformed into a demographic reserve fund by the end of 2015 at the latest and that the participation of the demographic reserve fund and additional fixed funding resources shall be defined in a specific law. Here. However, let me remind you that the demographic reserve fund is actually a state-owned asset fund, which is an investment fund owned by a country established for the purpose of pre-financing pension funds for a period when expenditure exceeds income. In fact, we already have a demographic reserve fund, as each year the country spends about €1.5 billion on the pension budget. In addition, the Capital Company, as the basis for the creation of the demographic fund, claims that it has been established from the outset as a demographic reserve fund. So in this way we already have it, although not under that name, so just transforming the Capital Society into this fund is not in itself problematic. Of course, it is different with regard to the establishment of additional fixed sources of funding. In the current state of the Treasury, unfortunately, there is very little room for additional budgetary resources, which would be allocated up to €1.5 billion to the pension fund or the demographic reserve fund. The search for additional budgetary resources inevitably means additional burden on citizens and citizens and the economy, which can also be quite critical in the current situation of slow recovery. Let me mention that in foreign practice, the demographic funds are portfolios or investment funds operating in accordance with the principles of security, dispersion and return on investments, such as the French and Irish Funds. The key problem with us is, and I stress this, in order to make it clear what problems we are facing here that the Capital Society, as a demographic fund, has 41 capital investments in state-owned companies. Among them are those defined as strategic or important, such as Gorenje, Krka, Luka Koper, Terme Olimia, Sava and Perutina Ptuj. As such, therefore, it does not comply with the basic principles of the demographic funds. For all these reasons, the drafting of a law under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance is not so simple. Let me stress that, despite this, the activities are taking place intensively. That is now the essence of the answer to the question. The Ministry has already prepared a working proposal for the law. In spite of the difficult financial situation, it also found an additional permanent source of funding. However, the Ministry has yet to fully align this proposal with all stakeholders before it reaches the parliamentary bench, so we need some time to achieve a clear definition of the internationally comparable functioning of the demographic reserve fund, which will ensure respect for the basic principles of security, dispersion and profitability and ensure the rationality of operations that will not cause excessive or additional costs on the account of pensioners and pensioners. We're trying to get our hands on it. The Ministry is working intensively, and that's the essence of the answer. I am sure that the fund will also be established in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u35	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, President. The importance of the parliamentary investigation in identifying the reasons and those responsible for the biggest bank hole in the history of Slovenia has been repeatedly discussed in the National Assembly. At least here in the National Assembly, we seem to be aware of this problem with one another. Finally, the proposal to set up this parliamentary inquiry was adopted here in April in the National Assembly without a vote against. Article 13 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation states that courts and other state authorities are obliged to provide the Commission of Inquiry with the necessary legal assistance and must act as quickly as possible. However, the requested court, i.e. in the fourth paragraph of the same Article, is not entitled to assess the premises of the measure requested or requested by the investigating commission. It's all nice in theory, and then we get to practice. In fact, until the material is obtained, which is an essential condition for the decision-making and adoption of the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. And we come to the absurdities, which we also witness in the said investigative commission, that the courts, say in Maribor and Cel, favour the seizure of the documentation necessary for the conclusion of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, and the investigating judge Deša Cener in the District Court in Ljubljana decides differently, on the same proposal of the commission of inquiry with an identical explanation only with a different addressee. In Article 2, we have in the Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social state, so I ask you, Your Honorary Minister of Justice: How is it possible for an identical proposal in a legal country to depend solely on the court in which you apply for an act or in which case a particular case is dealt with or, I hope not, who is the person to whom the individual file relates? The Ljubljana Court – refers to the New Ljubljana Bank, the populace of all banking affairs in Slovenia. And I want to know: How do you, as the institution of the Justice Minister in this regard, view this practice, which excites the confidence of citizens in the rule of law, not least that we are all equal before law and that we all have the same rights, regardless of the place, regardless of who it refers to, and regardless of who requests the judiciary for justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u37	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u38	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Member Logar, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! First, with regard to the parliamentary investigation. As Minister of Justice within the executive branch of the Authority, in principle, I support the parliamentary investigation of the bank hole. I believe that this is necessary and necessary in terms of public interest and at the same time I hope that this parliamentary inquiry will be different and will produce results. This is not that someone will not jump again, evaluating the work of Parliament, but I think we all realize that in the past not all parliamentary investigations have provided the answers that we wanted, given that they have not been completed in most cases. And maybe there's a part of the answer to your question in here. See, as the Minister of Justice of a particular case and the decision of the judge, I will not comment, not on the judge in Ljubljana, not on the judge in Celje and Maribor. That's what you have to do, and I believe you understand. In principle, it is. Here we will have to look once in the mirror, about which there has been a lot of talk in this national assembly. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation is bad, so there are many absurdities on the one hand and on the other. In particular, it is weak in its indefiniteness in relation to the third branch of power. You yourself quoted a key article which states that all state authorities, including the courts, must provide the parliamentary commission with the necessary legal assistance. And then there is a rather unfortunate article on how the parliamentary commission of inquiry can take certain coercive measures through the court, both in terms of bringing in potential witnesses who do not respond, as in terms of document seizure. And here is an unfortunate matter in the law, which did not happen for the first time to you, by the way, in the role of your parliamentary investigation, but has been repeated several times in the past, almost every reference to Parliament, even to the Constitutional Court, and the law has thus remained the same. This is about the court having to decide. If the Court of First Instance disagrees, it may give an opinion to a higher court, but, as you yourself have said, as you have explained, it simply has to be confirmed, there is no possibility of a substantive judgment. The Court must always have the possibility of a substantive judgment, and so the Constitutional Court has also said, but the law has not changed. I would also like to add, this is one of the rare laws of the Member States. I'm looking at everything. [[…]] [[Laugh]] Mr. Gorenak now shows me to look at you, not him. As a matter of fact, it's an emissary law. As Minister of Justice, I would like to support any change and clarification of this law, because the parliamentary inquiry is an important institution, I can honestly say. But there are these problems that you've pointed out. And now I'm gonna turn around a little bit. You know, you come from the fact that the decision of the Celje and Maribor Court was the right decision and the Ljubljana Court was the wrong one. But it could be the other way around. Legal certainty and uniform application of the law shall be conditioned by the determination of the legal act, with the amount of case law in which the court may interpret this legal provision. In the context of legal practice and the rule itself, each judge shall then be independent in his or her decision and shall act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and by his or her conscience. And since we have a law that is distinctly indeterminate, regardless of who was in power and who led the parliamentary investigative commissions, it has always caused problems. And since we have very little judicial practice, since relatively few parliamentary commissions have decided to refer to courts, we have such a situation. I don't think such a situation is good, I agree. I cannot comment on a specific decision on who was right and who was right here, but I think that this must be overcome by the early regulation of this legal provision, which is, as it is said, a law of the Member States and not a law drawn up by the executive branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u39	Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. If I have correctly understood the Minister, there is no problem for him, even if it is a misjudgment of the Maribor and Celje courts. So even if the files that the investigative commission gets, they wouldn't get. As far as the possibility of an assessment is concerned, the fourth paragraph of Article 13 is very clear: "The requested court is not entitled to assess the scope of the measure." And the said Judge Desha Cener, who you do not wish to comment on, has, for the first time, decided too late, over ten times to exceed the time limit laid down by the law, and has not decided in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. She didn't decide. So she didn't settle or let the higher court decide, but she said she didn't have enough data to decide. That's why I'm asking you one more time because you're ultimately the justice minister: Is this the right procedure for you to prevent the parliamentary investigative commission from doing its job with such delay? When you say it may be the right decision of the Ljubljana court, not of the Maribor and Celje: Do you really imagine that a parliamentary investigation can reach the bottom of a bank hole if the relevant documents are not available? And by saying that it can be the wrong position in Maribor and Celje, you can essentially pour oil on fire at different interpretations of the same legal standard, with the same input text, depending on the local entry point of the document to the court. Therefore, you are contributing further to the lack of confidence in the legal system. And I'm really interested in how, as Justice Minister, you can claim that you're not going to get involved in a specific procedure, but at the same time, in the obvious decision of two courts, you're saying that you can't add anything as a justice minister here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u41	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u42	You misunderstood me if I went back to your starting point. I didn't want to pour oil on the fire, nor did I want to say that there was no problem if the parliamentary investigation didn't get these documents. I agree with you. I don't think any investigative committee can get to the bottom if they don't have access to the relevant documents. However, this access must comply with certain legal standards. Today because I don't know, I don't know, I haven't seen your request, not the court's decision, I have much less information than you, and I can't just trust you that everything you say is a golden truth. Why? Because at this point, you think the right decision is the one you're expecting, and the wrong one is the one you didn't expect. I've said it very simply before. The only thing I can say today is that if it's true that the court was late with the decision, it's unacceptable. What is the content of the decision where it was made, left, right – I cannot comment on it because I do not know, I do not know your request, I do not know the decision, the argument of one or the other. However, this will always take place for as long as it is a legal basis as it is. Different decisions will be made and different decisions will be made in the past. And as you know, this must also be settled because this law will create and further conflicts will arise in this process, and this is a conflict that is being built into the institution of parliamentary investigation in cases where forecasting procedures are also taking place in parallel. This is where you know what I'm talking about. There will be problems in obtaining documentation by the court, by the prosecution, etc. All of this has already been seen. This is not a new film, and this is due to the legal basis we have and the way in which investigative commissions operate. So I will not say which decision was right because I do not know any materially, nor is it my job or my responsibility to do so. The most important thing would be to crystallize here as quickly as possible. I think it is in the interests of the entire Parliament. However, I agree with this that it is good to talk about these things in Parliament too, because this may lead to new legislation, because otherwise, I agree, no parliamentary commission will be able to work. However, we cannot expect the Court to be interpreted in 200 different ways on the basis of one, and an article which has already been interpreted before the Constitutional Court has already been interpreted in 200 different ways, without then exposing judges to the general Slovenian public with a name and surname in this case, which is also a type of pressure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u43	Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The Minister did not add anything to the clarity of the existing situation. Otherwise, he resents the fact that I've made the names of the judges public. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think the judge has to stand by his decision. If it is right or if it is wrong, it is the responsibility of the profession. Nor did he properly judge what I was saying, which is the right decision, which is the wrong decision, but I merely presented three different decisions, two of which say that the investigating judge agrees with the explanation of the investigative commission, while one judge, Desha Cner, repeats the name, violated the law, Article 156 of the CAP Act and also the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, because it did not decide as provided for in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. The Minister also knows that there is a time limit for judicial practice, which, in the case of such a sensitive subject as a parliamentary inquiry, in the case of such a sensitive subject as a five-billion-euro bank hole, can be established if this is the only way to obtain the relevant documents. I am therefore a little concerned about the principled support that the Minister-designate has given to the parliamentary investigation at the outset. I think that this support should be significantly stronger, at least by the Justice Minister. In this respect, I also do not know where there is any doubt, or in some way I understand whether the parliamentary inquiry will serve with any decision if the Ljubljana court continues this practice, and the parliamentary investigation will not allow the two largest banks to see the material that is crucial in this regard. I therefore believe that, in any case, an in-depth investigation must take place at the level of the National Assembly, especially since we Members agreed on the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry, there was no amendment to the mandate of the parliamentary investigation, and it was confirmed that it was proposed. On all sides, there is a desire for a parliamentary inquiry to come to a bottom. In this respect, therefore, there is only a matter of materials on which the parliamentary investigation will be based. And if there are two courts, the minister, and you can look at that, this is public data, this is not some closed matter of the investigative commission, and this is not my interpretation, so if the two courts have so decided, then the average person really has doubts as to how, on the basis of the same document, the third court can decide otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u45	Mag. Anže Logar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomić has the floor to ask Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. My question concerns the proposal for a law on chimney services. Article 92 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment of 2013, Article 92 of the Law of 31 December 2015 on the implementation of the Compulsory State Economic Service provides that the rules in force in the field of chimney services, including all concession contracts concluded, shall only apply until the end of this year. On 17 July 2015, the Government published on the e-government’s side a proposal for a law on chimney services, which, as of 1 January 2016, was to replace the current concession scheme with a licensing system. However, the licensing system is opposed by the chimney industry and other parts of the public concerned. More. To date, a number of nomological, substantive and implementing problems have been identified in the draft law, and there are also indications that it is even unconstitutional in many respects. Even if the proposed changes were to benefit from the confidence of all stakeholders, the proposal has a number of other problems. Although the proposal for a government law has not yet been tabled for parliamentary consideration. This means that it is not possible to deal with it on a regular basis, which would necessarily be necessary for such radical and controversial content. The scenario announced by the director of the Directorate at your Ministry, Mrs Tanja Bolta, is increasingly threatening us that on January 1st, when the current concession system expires, the market system will be in place for everyone to do what they want. That's why I'm asking you: Will the Government put a proposal for a smoker service law into parliamentary consideration this year? And if he does: In these two good months, how will it ensure that the bill is properly designed and coordinated with all key stakeholders, if it is currently faced with almost universal opposition? Will the Government, in the event that the proposal for a law on chimney services will not be submitted to parliamentary treatment or that, due to lack of support in Parliament and outside of it this year, it will not submit to parliamentary hearing at least a new law on environmental protection that will prolong the current regime and thus prevent the chaos that will certainly prevail? And if so: Until when is this extension due? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u47	Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The proposal for a law on chimney services, which has already been published on the web portal and has been publicized, we continue to coordinate and is currently under interdepartmental treatment. However, we are all working to see that the law is included in the government hearing in a timely manner in order to allow for the adoption of a short-term law by the end of this year. However, the fact that the amendment to the law in force in 2013 was an amendment to a law not proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Space, but that this proposal was tabled in Parliament, which means that it is possible to introduce a free market system by rejecting the law on chimney services. In my personal opinion it is now up to me to talk about concessions in chimneys, but when you are a citizen, a citizen can choose a free personal physician, personally I can choose a dentist, I also have the opportunity to obtain other opinions in health services, their car owners can take their car to the registration or technical review of licensed organisations. Already in administrative units they have updated administrative procedures, I can raise personal documents and I can arrange many things today, regardless of the place of residence, but right in chimneys, when we are obliged to open the door to the concessionary chimney by the end of the year, to let him in and allow him this examination, I think we as citizens have the right to choose someone we trust. On the other hand, if I look at the market system, it is very pleasant to hear the market system, and as you yourself have said, I can do anything, but the next moment I think that the left neighbour, the right neighbour, the neighbor across the street or the neighbor behind me can think similarly, but I realize that the examination of chimneys, along with the chimney, is not only the task that the state prescribes, but it means something more, it means my own safety. Unfortunately, some accidents have resulted in fatalities, including poisoning. Another important task is fire safety. First of all, the Ministry of Environment and Space has a healthy air. We have adopted five regulations this year addressing and citing measures to reduce air pollution by PM10 particles. With this awareness, this proposal for a law has been prepared so that we are not in any way prepared to introduce the new Environmental Protection Act, which would prolong the validity of the existing regulation, but it is true that if our proposal for a law is not confirmed in the procedure, it will be confirmed in Slovenia by 1. 1. 2016 established market system, as approved by the National Assembly in 20013.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u49	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you. Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer. You mentioned a reduced procedure, which is by no means appropriate, not procedurally, because it is a new law, and not substantively. You've had enough time to come up with a better proposal and I'm wondering: How do you imagine that a bill that regulates such a very important area as chimneys, which has been opposed by practically all professions and all interested public for three months, could be harmonised in such a short time? It may seem trivial to anyone, but the area of chimney services is extremely important and is essential to public interest. There's no way we can compare this, as you mentioned, to a choice, I don't know, a mechanic or a doctor. This is not just about heating, it is also about safety and the environment, for example in terms of ensuring fire safety, efficient energy use and air quality, and prevention of last-minute carbon monoxide poisoning and environmental burdens with emissions. In short, the state simply cannot afford the risk that such an important area as the chimney service could be left without legal regulation and that everyone could choose as it would seem. So once again, I ask you: Is this government prepared for the scenario that its proposal for the Smoker Services Act will not be adopted in the National Assembly or will it not be adopted in a timely manner and could threaten us with chaos in this area on January 1st? I'm asking for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u51	Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you. I find it difficult to accept your allegations. In particular, I would like to focus on two statements. This opposition, or the public debate we have had over the year, shows that there are two extreme currents that want regulation. One is to continue the concession system, I must admit that in no way do I agree with you that the choice of a doctor is less important than the choice of a chimney, in this part I must tell you that it would not seem like I don't know what I'm talking about. On the other hand, it is the interest of many who demand the exact opposite. No concessions, no licenses, nothing to do with the regulation of chimney services. It is true that we already have a regulation for medium combustion plants and the subject matter we are talking about now concerns small combustion plants. I've already mentioned everything you've said, so we don't have any differences. It is true, however, that the extreme arrangements that we met with in the first stages of the drafting of this legislation took us on our own in the middle way. This means that licences are issued to determine the appropriate competence of chimney chimneys for the provision of chimney services. Chaos, as you call it, I can't imagine what you see it in. When I talk about rural areas, smokers in most cases are those who work very well with the customers, and they also respond to the call, especially if they smoke with trees, when multiple chimney cleaning is needed. It is true, however, that in urban environments this problem is slightly different, there is a great potential for remote heating, there are many facilities where there are more owners, multi-housing buildings, and in this case I do not see chaos, depending on the way in which it is being smoked. Your fear that there will be chaos, but I admit, it seems really overrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u53	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u54	In the Group of Members, the Joint Left of the Minister's replies and explanations cannot be accepted. The area of chimney services is essential to our public interest, the doctor is a personal interest, in short, it concerns the points of heating, safety and the environment and it is important that we approach it with semi-invented and completely uncoordinated proposals. It is not about maintaining an existing state that is unsustainable, I agree. This is a search for solutions in the framework of the concessionary system, which makes it best possible to achieve public interest and is practiced in Austria and Germany, for example. I am therefore interested in a concrete answer as to whether it will introduce the law or whether it will extend the transitional period. I think we should have a general discussion on this. Given the attitude the Ministry has shown so far, we need to make clear the urgency of this issue, because on January 1st, it is very fast approaching, and I think this is a matter that we need to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u55	Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, you have the floor to question Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister Boris Koprivnik! We all want to have a rational and effective public administration. However, there are many issues in the public domain and it has been established that public agencies in particular are ineffective, that they are large and that they may not be necessary, the same is true for public funds. We know that the Court of Auditors has also found certain irregularities in their functioning and has recommended that a process of merger or termination of public agencies be initiated. And I'm asking you: Has the competent ministry or government already taken certain measures, or how has it responded to the Court of Auditors’ report or findings? What measures has she taken to ensure that the agencies are effective and rational if we find out? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u57	Mr. Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. As you can see, many questions and flat-rate opinions are emerging in public around the agencies. I therefore propose that I should state some facts on the basis of which we also wish to address the irregularities that undoubtedly exist in this area. We have 16 agencies and 9 funds. With the exception of the Energy Agency, which has been completely excluded from the Public Agencies Act, this is a fact, so we are not talking about some hundreds of organisations. The Court of Auditors’ audit report was published in May 2015; in July, the Government adopted a response report with measures to address the irregularities identified and these measures are taking place very intensively at that time. All ministries have received instructions and also a proposal on how to harmonise contracts with agency directors for contracting with directors. All ministers have also been given powers and contracts at the Government or at the Ministry of Public Administration have also been reviewed and alerted to possible irregularities. With regard to the preparation of uniform basis for the regulation of property ownership, the solutions are already being prepared and are both included in the Public Finance Act, which is currently under discussion and also includes this part of the Agency's property arrangements, and in the 2016 regulatory programme we are planning amendments to the Law on Public Agencies, the Real Estate Act and the Law on Public Funds, which will also very clearly define the ownership of these public-owned agencies. This year, however, we have also examined exactly which agencies and how they have regulated ownership. In October, the Government set guidelines for the exercise of control because we find that the agencies are relatively under-supervised, that is also the Court of Auditors, first of all through the supervision of the founder, by establishing clear measurable objectives and tasks to be supervised by the competent ministry for this purpose, and that the functioning of the directors is also closely monitored to require a report on the operation, operation and performance of the tasks to be carried out by the Director, as the Government has decided, as set out in their contract, and then the ministries are also competent to supervise or actually achieve these objectives. However, it also stated to the ministries that, as part of reporting on the work of public agencies, they should also report on the legality, expertise and effectiveness of the work of the Agency, for which each department is designated. With regard to the supervision of the financial operations of public agencies, we expect or are already proposed in the Law on Public Finance to establish the same arrangements for all public agencies with regard to the preparation of work programmes, financial plans and, more importantly, the use of revenue surpluses over expenditure, precisely for which they may be incurred, since we have several individual cases where the Court of Auditors is also alerting that these funds may be allocated to not too much justification. It is also important to note that in 2016 the Public Sector Inspectorate will also review the Directors' Employment Contracts in terms of compliance with the Public Administration Act and the Public Sector Wages Act, so the Inspectorate will also report on its findings to the Government and the Court of Auditors in the context of the response report. The government also instructed the ministries to complement the founding acts of those agencies for which we have found that they do not include all the tasks that the founding acts should include, and to also comply with the Law on Public Agencies and then report to the Government on coordination. In cooperation with the Ministry, the Office of Budgetary Control will verify the legality of tariffs and their levels, as the agencies in many cases also set tariffs and altitudes and report this to the Court of Auditors. Finally, let me point out that 16 agencies have 16 regional laws. In recent years it has happened that in these sectoral laws, which are the basis for the establishment of agencies, provisions in which it has been said have often been applied"... but this agency is not subject to the law on public agencies." And that is why in many laws we need to regulate that the agencies will again be more uniformly regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u59	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to ask the question of mags. To dean jedan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr Minister, perhaps it is a little late, because the order is slightly different, but I will ask the question. Bovedoreja is the leading sector of Slovenian agriculture in Slovenia, while guaranteeing the preservation of rural and natural heritage. Animal health care is crucial in this regard. In the past, by 2000 we have followed the trends of developed countries by acquiring state status, free of various diseases, bovine leukosis, tuberculosis. In recent years, even some of the former countries of the Eastern bloc have been overtaken by infectious bovine rinotracheitis, which means pneumonia, and bovine viral diarrhea, in gaining national status for diseases. Animal health is essential for the preservation and development of Slovenian bovine selection. Trade in breeding animals within the European Union is one-wayly limited due to these two diseases. IBR/ IPV is on the list of diseases whose eradication of the European Union may even be co-financed. Due to economic losses and the high prevalence of the BVD in particular, livestock farmers have a strong interest in approaching a comprehensive solution to this problem. Although the Authority has adopted Regulations, Official Journals 107/2013 and 55/2015, for the purposes of obtaining voluntary status, there is no greater response from breeders, as informed breeders know that it is impossible to keep the herd uninfected, but if the neighbour has sick animals. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in: Why are the national IBR/IPV and BVD eradication programmes not yet ready, financially valued and why are you not running for European funds for this purpose, which are within the EU, as I have already said, also intended? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u61	Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! Let me start at the back. In the opinion of the Food Safety Authority and the review of European legislation, I note that these diseases are not on the list of diseases for which programmes can be co-financed by European means. It's the other way around. The situation in the European Union, as far as IBR/IPV is concerned, is as follows. Four countries are free: Denmark, Austria, Finland and Sweden. For these countries, the first step was voluntary action, and only when they reached up to 60% of the cattle, so to speak, did the breeders decide — not to force them to do so — the breeders decided to go to the compulsory, this is a mandatory programme. And some other countries within Germany, free, in the control programme, but not free, are Belgium and the Czech Republic. I would also like to say that there are no major clinical problems regarding IBR/IPV. The presence of antibodies or viruses reduces the selling price of breeding bovine animals sold in particular to certain other countries. As you have rightly determined, the honourable Member, we have a legal order in Slovenia. What is important, however, is that experts who control this area in Slovenia have participated in the preparation of the bases and regulations. I would particularly like to highlight here Professor Peter Hostnik and Dr. Ivan Toplak with his colleagues. At the same time, at the last meeting, where representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia were also present and held at the administration, it was agreed that it was also necessary to follow the voluntary approach further. It was also agreed that both professors would inform the members of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of what this means. Entering such a program brings pluses as well as minuses. Let's say one of the negatives is that if we as a country also start implementing a voluntary programme to take away a large part of the beef issue, because most purchases of calves are from countries where these diseases are not controlled and it is impossible to bring them to Slovenia if we take this programme to Slovenia. If breeders and breeders find that it makes sense to implement the programme in Slovenia, a Slovenian profession is available. When we reach some level of free breeding, I believe that the country will also enter from the owner of the funds. However, once again, honourable Member, I would like to say that I would not like this programme to be imposed on the breeders, because believe me, and then we will have extraordinary meetings of the committees and perhaps the National Assembly, why we have put up administrative obstacles that most other countries do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u63	Mag. Jana Jenko, you have the floor to ask the question of mags. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. All of you, welcome! I have a question about personal bankruptcy. Personal bankruptcy has grown in the last year. Among those who opt for personal bankruptcy is an increasing number of those who claim to have no assets, but we all know that this property was previously transferred to immediate family members. They cannot pay the trustees, these close family members build houses or invest in other projects with a large sum of money. In recent times, we have been able to track, in particular, the resounding cases of Ivan Zidar, including Binet Kordez and Rok Snezič, and some more of them could be found. It does not seem right to me that such persons who have taken up a lot of property at the expense of their employees may apply for personal bankruptcy. We all know the importance of this personal bankruptcy, so that those who are essentially impenetrable, poor people can help themselves to move forward in life, so that they can continue to pay the bills, not the people who have the assets behind them, but who have hidden them. I want to know: Have you thought about it, how you would prevent it, change legislation, or in any other way prevent it? About two years ago, a land debt appeared that we then lifted. It seems to me that this variant of this exploitation or avoidance of the creditors' payment is almost identical, but it is said otherwise. And I want to know: What are you preparing in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u65	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member, other Members and Members of Parliament! At first, you said you had a lot of questions about personal bankruptcy. I've got them, too. Since individual cases have started to appear in the media, which could have been reported as exceptional cases, we have also begun to work more intensively at the Ministry of Justice. You must understand that in the past such cases were not known or known, and otherwise we could not have known about them. I would like to say that the whole bankruptcy legislation, which has changed several times in the past also on the initiative and intensive monitoring of the European Commission, has focused mainly on issues of legal insolvency. And the law in this area has changed significantly better and more times. A personal bankruptcy shall be conducted in the same manner as a bankruptcy proceedings against a legal person primarily due to the proportionate and simultaneous payment of the claims of all creditors from the debtor's assets. The bankruptcy shall consist of all the assets held by the debtor at the start of the bankruptcy proceedings, except in certain cases. In view of the fact that the debtor is responsible for the fulfilment of its obligations to the creditors with all its assets, there may be a risk for each creditor that the debtor will reduce his assets either in order to avoid forced execution or before the commencement of the insolvency proceedings. Therefore, different methods, experiments, and so on have developed. Therefore, the law already has a number of safeguards that should limit this if everyone involved in this procedure does his homework, according to his own words. The most crucial protector in this is the so-called action of Paulian, which is said to challenge the debtor's legal acts, which has been known since Roman times. The period of competition shall be in the course of the insolvency proceedings for the debtor of the unpaid holding or possession of a property of a minor value three years prior to the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure, including for those legal transactions concluded or carried out by the insolvency debtor in the interests of a person who has a close relationship with him. If I make it very simple, in fact, the law already allows three years before you applied for bankruptcy, all legal transactions, transfers of property either to family members or to other connected persons, if I am caricating, a company from a cousin, a friend and so on – is challenging. And this disputation is not so difficult because the law gives very low evidentiary standards for this, but it requires the activity of the creditor, the activity of the bankruptcy manager and, of course, the proper and quality decision-making of the court. We can talk about the need for, say, three years to extend to a possible longer period. But what you're asking today isn't the issue, because these things aren't so old, they're not from three years ago. Legal transactions carried out by the debtor prior to the start of the bankruptcy cannot be prohibited at the general level, as some are also legitimate. So that the solution you mentioned earlier is a real land debt, we cannot put exactly the same standard here. There are, however, some other measures that could make this matter more relevant and we have been working very intensively on them for the past 14 days. I think that in one part we will also propose a change of law, but primarily we must ensure that all participants in the process do their homework. Let it sound as simple as that, we have found that bankruptcy managers often do not know, do not use the instruments that the law gives to locate assets abroad, even though the law makes it possible. And we will conduct extensive training on this crucial part through the Centre for Education in Justice. We've been meeting with FURS this week with bankruptcy judges in this area. There's only one more thing I'd like to say. You know, it comes to the public that, say, I don't know, this person and this person demanded personal bankruptcy. This does not mean that debt relief will be granted; this does not mean that debt relief will be granted. I cannot speak directly to the public about individual persons right now, but at least two of them, when they requested a waiver of obligations, but these are people who have now been media exposed, his proposal has been rejected by the court, some waivers have not yet been required. So, if I shorten, we're aware of this problem, we're working intensively for 14 days now, but it's not the primary change in legislation, but it's the primary way to find a suitable [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] stakeholders shall carry out their work. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u67	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to ask the question of mags. To dean jedan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia a question concerning the concerns and concerns of all Slovenian farmers, especially farms, regarding the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. If we go back a little bit, a few months, to the spring part of the year, we know that you have prepared everything you need at the Ministry, I think that map was over 800 pages thick, and you sent it to the European Commission. After all, in several areas of agriculture, we have found that this new perspective or operational programme is not written on our skin. Many of the comments came from farms, or from those who manage these farms, working on farms, and in particular services working in this agricultural area in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, since we are running out of time by the end of October, we know what time it is by the end of the year, and I am curious: How many of these changes have we been able to send to Brussels and, above all, what answers have we received about these changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u69	Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u70	Mr Member, thank you for asking. My problem is that I don't have enough time to answer everything that seems important to me. I would like to recall when the programme was adopted, we were one of the first countries, and even at this point it is interesting that still, I think 31 programmes have not been confirmed, so that there are still very great difficulties. The biggest indication of this programme was that there is a lack of environmental action on the grass. We forget, however, that this was an environmental programme already identified by the European Commission in the previous perspective as inappropriate, so that we financed something that is part of general practice and does not give any general, measurable effect. As soon as the programme was adopted, we, as agreed on by the Committee on Agriculture and also by Slovenian farmers, formed four groups: a group for planting, wine growing, agriculture and grassland, which sought upgrades and observed what was happening on the ground, so that after what we could do, we could upgrade the programme at the end of this year. These groups have finished their work, and they have also given us their proposal, which I will briefly try to read if time allows me. However, I would like to say that for some time now, informal coordination with the Commission has been taking place for almost three months. We also get the opposite of answers because when we send the official programme, it is not possible to fix it at the end of November. Then either they accept it or they don't, so things have to be arranged and approved in advance. Now let me read you some of the most important decisions we've come up with. First, as regards the programme of agriculture and agriculture, the requirements have changed so much that new measures can be introduced into the programme by those implementing measures in water protection areas I. In hop operations, changes are technical and not substantive. In fruit operations, the proposal for a change is what our fruit growers most wanted to be able to use organic fertilisers in addition to authorised organic fertilisers and, timely and quantitatively, also nitrogenous at the time of growth and flowering, i.e. in spring. The selection requirements shall be amended by prescribing the whole area and applying a new method for the destruction of pests not based on FFS. That's four changes. Fifth, however, is in the field of wine-growing, where the use of organic fertilisers is also permitted in addition to the fertilisers that have been permitted so far. In the case of selection proposals, greening is expanded and it is also possible for those who want to go to the destruction of insects without insecticides, which is then co-financed. The only exception is a quarantined harmful clot. And as far as soil coverage is concerned, it is upgraded so that it is also a special option for the coastal wine-growing environment, which has specific characteristics according to Slovenian. The changes in permanent grass operations are important, where our proposal is to enter the programme is no longer 1 hectare, but 0.3 hectares. Similarly, in grass, type 2 is not more than 1, but 0.3 hectares. And the operation of special grass habitats, where new dates are set that are adapted to individual parts of Slovenia. That's how it is for Halose 1. 6, 10. 6. for Gorička, Mura, Drava and Slovenian Gorica and 30. 6. for the rest of Slovenia. As in 12, an operation of grass butterflies, i.e. habitat operations also change from a minimum entrance of 1 hectare to 0.3 hectares. In keeping with the habitats of steep meadows, autumn pasture is allowed, while the proposal is to change the weight from 0.5 to a maximum of 1.2 GVZ. In protecting animals from wild beasts, our proposal is to allow mobile protective elements, these are these protective electrical nets, and for mountain pastures to also allow the collection of the missing feed. Mr Member, I would like to ask you an additional question so that I can read the answer by the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u71	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr Minister, the topic of agriculture in Slovenia is current and I think there are so many problems that I will allow you to give a full answer. Thanks for what I heard. I know you have something else to say. Because this possibility is slowly running out that we can change some things, and sometimes when you listen to citizens and citizens of neighbouring countries, it seems to me that they are, I don't know, more skilled in this area or have more knowledge than we have. I think that agriculture in the neighbouring countries, in my mind Austria, is otherwise taken care of. On Saturday, I also spoke to farmers concerned about the future of our agriculture. I think that the Slovenian farmer's hand carries everything, all the work that we put on them or that they put on themselves. But I think they're going to come into a situation where they're afraid of how these farmers are going to develop in the future. Today there were 61 farmers on the balcony – last week it was given to Slovenian farmers – and they raised one question and a fear for the future. Over 50 rural women who are housewives working on farms are not provided for basic insurance. But ladies, who are also a little older, do not fear for themselves, fear for the future of these farms, how young people will continue and maintain farms and how they will work on these farms. Dear Minister, I'm really worried, we know we have a story about the woods outside the door, the price of milk is falling. Above all, when we talk about milk, those who have carves to nursing care that there are no more subsidies and the price of milk on the other hand is falling. Dear Minister, I ask you to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u73	Mag. Indeed, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you. When it comes to milk, we said, co-financing is in mountain-hribov and in cows we also finance beef questions. On our proposal, and by the end of reading you will hear an additional proposal, and I would like to say this. It is true that there is a diverse agricultural policy between individual countries, but, for example, when you go to Austria, I am often there, too, among our farmers, that is, between our minority, and they say how they want to have such a wide range of complementary activities as is allowed in Slovenia to have such a level of co-financing of various investments as we have in Slovenia because they have lower. But let me finish by reading those proposals that are to a large extent already in line with the commission. The first indigenous breeds of domestic animals are proposed to increase co-financing from 60% to 100% and to complement the list of indigenous and traditional varieties threatened with genetic erosion and to further co-finance the production of seed from indigenous and traditional varieties. We have two measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The first relates to a particular form of manure, and the second relates to a special form of feeding of bovine animals. In organic farming, we increase, of course, payments for organic grasses from 70 to 80 %, which in practice means from 136 to 155 euros and in the coming period from 272 to 311. And the measure that I think is most important is the measure that we have been looking for, what to do when more breeding measures, when meadows were included, are simply not to be implemented. And I think the solution that our experts have found is very good, and this is an animal welfare measure. This means that we will co-finance that farmers and farmers release their cattle and poultry to pasture. If beef is at least 120 days away from the barn, we will co-finance it like the Austrians, our proposal is to introduce it next year. If there will be more than 210 days outside of the barn, we will also introduce co-financing here, but in practice it will not be possible to do so until 2017, because due to controls it is necessary to partially amend and upgrade the retail register. But that's the procedure. These are the proposals I have put forward by the expert groups. The joint expert group looked at where we had permission in some way, where not to send a new upgrade and reject it. This proposal, once sent, I believe that it will be sufficiently harmonised for the Commission to also accept it and then we can implement it in 2016. And I believe that, with these changes, we are solving most of the open issues that we have identified during the year. Some, however, cannot be saved. Environmental issues, those that do not have an environmental impact, are not allowed to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u75	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for your answers. As my question seems important to the development of Slovenian agriculture in the future, the Slovenian countryside, I would like to use the rules of procedure to discuss this issue in the National Assembly, so I suggest you, Mr President, put this to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u77	Mr Bojan Podkoršek on your proposal will decide on Wednesday 21 October 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž German has your word for the question of mags. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Good day to you all. As long as we are talking about the judiciary in our country, in some ways this bitter taste is within us that from independence to today we have not done our tasks to such an extent that at least in this area we can have some peace of mind. This is a living matter that needs to be continuously complemented, and I hope that we will be under the mandate or within the mandate of the Magi. Klemenčič can only find some comprehensive solutions and that we will no longer talk about justice as the biggest problem or one of the major ones, but that we will only talk about it in segmental issues. And one of these, like a colleague before me, is particularly affected by public bankruptcy. This is a very pressing problem during this period. The public constantly reminds us of the anomalies that occurred at this institute. We always have the feeling that there are double standards in our legal system and that we need to fight them all the time. As has already been said, in the past we have often had a bitter taste. The latest statistics, when summarized in the last year, only indicate that certain movements are visible. We may not yet see it, but we hope that in the future we will be able to feel it in life. In fact, there is a need to encourage dialogue in some way to resolve the segmental problems that arise in the judiciary, so allow me to touch on one of the topics that you have already discussed today, Mr Minister, but allow me to make a proposal in the form of questions as well as the President of the Justice Committee. It certainly maintains that the claim related to this issue is that the personal bankruptcy procedure is the last phase when creditors have an even small possibility to obtain some partial or minimum payment of their claims. Therefore, it is legitimate to ask whether previously committed has been sufficient, including by various national authorities, to avoid any subsequent possible abuse in the bankruptcy process. So allow me, Mr. Minister, to ask you two key questions: Do you think, however, that it would suggest that we should review once again the current regulation of the personal bankruptcy procedure, in particular in order to enforce additional safeguards against the abuse of the law, which would allow creditors over a longer period of time to challenge certain previous acts of debtors who have transferred their assets to relatives or other persons in order not to pay creditors in the later bankruptcy proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u79	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable Member, other Members and Members of Parliament, Minister's colleague! I will not go into the parts of which I have already answered your fellow Member, who has asked a question on a similar subject. But once again, I'd like to say the following. I think there are certainly opportunities, both in the legislative field and in the field of implementation in particular. Now we've started dealing with them a little bit more seriously. I would like to say that there are already many guards in existing legislation. Years ago, when we established a personal bankruptcy institute, we decided on one type of personal bankruptcy in terms of legal regulation. There are others, for example in Finland there is a special insolvency ombudsman who advocates both the creditor and the debtor and so on, but it turns the whole concept upside down. We have a concept like that. At this point, we must not break it because it is a relatively young law and because, in fact, with some terrible reform in this area, which some people like to promote, they would cut down the foundations of that part of the system, which is good in terms of personal bankruptcy, because it is intended for those who fall to the bottom of society, and they should be given another option. Of course, this should not apply to people or to abuses or alleged abuses that have recently taken place. So far, we have mainly dealt with the huge costs incurred by the courts on the basis of these particularly empty bankruptcys. This has been changed by this government by reducing the awards to bankruptcy managers by a special rule that I adopted earlier this year. Now, of course, it goes to the other side that you discussed and your colleague. I still believe, as it is said, that the bankruptcy process involves different stakeholders. We have bankruptcy managers, a chamber of bankruptcy managers, it is a relatively new apartment property, which will probably have to make some improvements in itself, or we will help them at the Ministry with some encouragement, supervision and so on, which is what this moment is too early to talk about. Then we have courts, then we have creditors who, you must know, often in such cases that you mentioned or talked about a lot, sometimes they are not active. Because these are procedures where, even when we are talking about banks, if you allow me, this grave, perhaps even a little provocative label, because they were in bed together, sometimes they are not so active in challenging various legal transactions where they might have been relied upon, and in such a case, the solution to the case is to the greater activity of the bankruptcy manager or the greater powers of the court. After all, we have a financial administration here, which has great powers already outside the bankruptcy process. I would also like to say that the moment someone enters a bankruptcy procedure when he gets the court's decision, but not everyone, as I said before, also what was written in the media, just the fact that someone has proposed personal bankruptcy does not mean that there will be debt relief, that his role will be positive. Some have also been rejected. However, once you are in this process, the law prescribes additional restrictions in terms of possession of property, all in the form of notary records and so on. But if I cut it short. I will conclude in the manner I have concluded in response to your colleague. We are now aware of this problem, we have a special implementation group designed, designed and implemented, I believe that before the end of this year, some soft measures such as education, such as individual controls on the functioning of individual actors, which are key and I have counted them before, and any change in the law. However, as it is said, today is not a problem, nor is the question of three years a key problem for those people whom you have highlighted. If we were to extend it to ten years, that wouldn't change anything at this point. However, this may also be a necessary measure, but we will consider it when we consider amending legislation. At present, however, the law must be fully implemented. And here, in our view, is currently a key problem and we will do everything within our remit to start implementing transparent and more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u81	The word has magic. Branko Grims, who will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! There are two things that my question about the Huda Cave is asked in an unusual light, which may in some way be characteristic of Slovenia. First of all, I'm putting it in Parliament, where there's a monument to revolutions, that is, a monument to crime, not a monument to victims, a monument to crime. Not a monument to independence, not a monument to victory in World War II, but a monument to revolutions, that is, a monument to crime. Not only will you not find this in the European Union, but you will find a series of resolutions, including the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which will soon be reconsidered, which explicitly states that this should not happen, that the victim is worthy of all respect and that the perpetrator of the crime is worthy of all condemnation, regardless of whose ideology the crime is committed. The other thing that puts the matter in a strange light is that I refer it to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. But unfortunately now, under the new law, he is the one who is responsible for the things I want to ask. This is one of the absurdities brought by the amended legislation, and this was also one of the reasons why I did not support it, because I do not think that this does not at all belong to justice, or perhaps to internal affairs or leave it where it was. Certainly the problem of the Hude Cave is multi-layered. A severe pit is in some ways our historical heritage, regret, which must be dealt with responsibly. One of the fundamental reasons for my question is the fact that it is in poor condition to threaten that it will soon be physically impossible to enter it, but we know that only a small part has been unearthed, that at least three more shafts are in there where it is supposed to lie, according to some estimates, a few thousand more beastly killed people, but no one can verify it, because there are no technical options and at this point not even the minimum resources needed to do so. And we're back in the absurdity that only Slovenia is facing, as far as I know, and no one else has been facing for a long time. We leave bodies lying in mine shafts, under dumps, everywhere. Who's it really about? The great pit is special because there are three nations. It's Slovenians, Croats, Austrians. Since there has been much after the end of World War II, crimes there have been happening long after the end of World War II, and there is no way to eliminate this from some of the occupationists. There were, among others, living, walled-up teenage girls, which is an unspeakable, incomprehensible crime, comparable only to what ISIS is doing there today in Syria. And that's why I'm asking the question: What will you do to enable him to continue to be undisturbed, unobstructed, and complete view of this part of our historical heritage?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u83	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u84	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members! I'm going to have to disappoint you about the question. The fact is, the war grave, the addressee, I think, Barbara's war grave in the Hudi Cave has the status of a registered war cemetery. There's no more cloaked war grave. Under the new law, the secret grave wars are under the jurisdiction of our ministry. With regard to registered war graves, you will have to address the issue to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs because they are responsible for it. Of course, we will certainly work and actively participate in solving the issues of hidden war graves in our presence as secret war sites. And if there are any other issues that are not settled in this area within the Huda Cave, we too will actively cooperate. But this part you've addressed to me, it refers to the Ministry of Labour. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u85	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u86	The matter is a little more complicated because it is in fact a mine shaft, and the complications that are, are that it should no longer be safe, and that it should not be easy to access it there, and even less so to carry out further research that, in the light of the circumstances that I have stated, is urgently necessary. And that's why I'm here again asking the question: What can be done so that these things can be properly completed? And secondly: How could we arrange for this access to be possible all the time? I know that they are now issued under the Ministry's licences, which are for single use. By the way, the Ministry of Labour is speaking to you, you say that this is not your jurisdiction, I can just tell you, and if you don't believe me, ask Mr Lejak, who has experienced this lively now several times, which is why this problem is still quite present, but, as it is said, something should be done here to make this a comprehensive arrangement. One option, however, is to transfer them to the Government, and in the work relating to others, of course, I will also ask them in the coming days, but it is, or it would not be the easiest thing to arrange for a permanent permit to be given and, of course, to ensure that this entry is also safe and secure and constant. And that we might consider giving this permission to a society that was established to preserve the heritage of the Huda Cave and is called the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u87	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u88	I can only say that we will refer this question to our colleagues at the Ministry of Labour. We agree that what you have asked as a question needs to be resolved, and I believe that will also happen, but in a formal sense we are not responsible for solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u89	Mr Danilo Ranc has the floor to ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u90	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister of State, Minister of State and Minister of State Dr. Peter Gasperšič! Korošice and Korošci, mayors and mayors of the municipalities of Koroška, directors of companies and Chamber of Commerce of Koroška refer to me with regard to the commitment of the Government and the Ministry of Infrastructure, which took place on the occasion of a government visit to Koroška 25. It committed this year to speed up activities on the project to build the northern part of the third development axis. They still find that youth unemployment is increasing in Koroška, young people are evicting and looking for, unfortunately, opportunities abroad. There are also larger companies in Koroška, such as Metal Ravne, TAB Mežica and other companies planning investments, which depend on adequate road and energy infrastructure. Because of the very poor road infrastructure, there is a legitimate fear that these companies will end or move their activities into a more friendly environment and invest elsewhere in Koroška and unemployment will increase. Investments by foreign and domestic investors are linked to infrastructure as a fundamental condition for the realisation of investments. As an example of good practice, I should point out a number of investments in Prekmurje, where domestic and foreign investors are opting for investments due to motorway infrastructure and Prekmurje is gradually developing and reducing the development backlog. Day 11. 2. In 2015 you also committed yourself to the meeting at the Ministry of Infrastructure with the Korean Members and Mayors and representatives of the economy to start Dars in 2015 by designing and buying land on the route from Velenje to Slovenj Gradc and to prepare a financial structure for the start of the construction of the northern part of the third development axis. Since the budget for 2016 and 2017 does not provide funds for the construction of the northern part of the third development axis, the Minister-designate, I ask you for answers to the following questions: How much funding will Dars spend in 2015, 2016 and 2017 on designing, buying up land and building works? Is the deadline already in place? Will you fulfill your commitment to start building the northern part of the third development axis by 2019? At what stage is the placement of the third development axis at the section Slovenj Gradec-Holmec? How will you act if those responsible for the project fail to fulfil the commitments you made as minister and as government on a visit to Koroška? Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u91	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor to give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank you for this question on the third development axis, which is also one of the priorities of this government. As has already been pointed out in your question, we have intensified our activities in this year's implementation of this project. In fact, in the spring, the Ministry of Infrastructure had given the initiative to start Dars with activities on this project. Thus he has already approached the realization of a study to determine the most optimal implementation scenario, it is said, the construction of this fast road. Now we're talking about the entire section of the A-1 to Velenje motorway and then forward to Slovenj Gradac. In short, here we now have to define the optimal option that will be being built at this initial stage. For it is a question of a four-passenger, for example, to Velenje, then, whether a four-passenger is already in the first stage to Slovenj Gradac or perhaps in the first stage of a two-passenger, then a four-passenger. In short, we still want to get clear answers to these questions so that financial dynamics can be adjusted accordingly. Otherwise, in the financial plan, Dars has plans for 2016 for placement, completion of placement – we know that until Velenje the section still needs to be placed in the space - that is, 456 000 euros are foreseen for installation and 80 000 euros for initial design activities in 2016. Then, in 2017, it is estimated to be €410 million for completion of projects and in the coming years, it is said, for all other activities, from the purchase of land and then for the construction itself. With regard to the future plan itself, I have already announced this, in 2016 and 2017 the design activities will be intensively implemented. We know that in 2016 we also need to complete placement in the space at the section to Velenje. I am confident that this section with certain improvements and optimizations will be acceptable and that this installation can actually be completed in early 2016. So we could really do design on this whole move to Slovenj Gradac 2016 and 2017. Then, of course, we can also start by acquiring land, obtaining building permits and, of course, following some of these real scenarios in 2018, 2019 follows the start of construction at these stages. You asked if we would fulfill the government's commitment. In fact, I would say that this is no longer about government commitments, but it is actually about the real plans of DARS. So I'd rather talk about making plans. I don't think there are any reasons why we can't be realized. Here is the only risk involved in putting into space, but as I said here, I am confident that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will reach an agreement with the local communities so that this placement will be successfully completed. Because we all know that the Koro region needs a modern road connection to the highway network. I might also mention here that it will also be important for the realisation of the guarantee to Dars. To this end, the law of guarantee will have to be adopted. In fact, here I am already asking for the assistance and cooperation of Members when this law is therefore being considered in the National Assembly. Maybe a quick question about this so-called horizontal section. But here we know that really the best solutions are being studied. We know that the economic study has shown that the quadruple is extremely expensive for those traffic needs, so that we are also looking for solutions in cooperation with the region [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u93	Mr. Danilo Ranc, a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u94	Dear Minister, I will thank you for your answer. But I must say that I am under the impression of the development axis, the third development axis in Koroška. You're the one who convinced me with your answer. But there were some that I would not say to individuals, officials who expressed different views. So I'm kind of satisfied with your answer. I am sorry, however, that I cannot ask the Minister of Finance about the financial structure. Maybe some other time. But thanks for the answer, I think we're on the right track. But maybe I'd like to explain the dynamics, because I feel like eight months to make a study since we were at your place for a long time. Is it possible to shorten these terms so that this project can be implemented as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u95	Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, you have the floor to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u96	Yes, thank you very much. In this regard, I can say that this study has begun to be prepared or produced sometime in the summer, so that I am counting on this to be the result in the short term. In the following year, we will have clear answers, in which part will be the four-passenger. I think there's almost no doubt in this lower part, but I wouldn't have re-edited that result. I have specifically ordered that all the benefits of this region's development and economic growth be taken into account, not only this economic and transport logic, but also these wider benefits for the development of the entire region. I expect that the result of this study will then be appropriate. But now that I have the opportunity to speak, perhaps even in the previous answer, I would not be able to tell me when you were still asking how we would act, if this plan were not to be – not a commitment, but a plan – fulfilled. I can say that when this annual plan of DARS is adopted, the administration of this company is, of course, responsible for its implementation, its supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the work of the administration, and that we, at the ministry or the government, must ensure that the DARS has the conditions for work. One of these important conditions is, as I have already mentioned, the preparation of this guarantee law, which must then be adopted here, in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your answer. Mag. Andrej Shircelj will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! The state has property, has financial assets and has real property, especially real estate and movable property. Of course, the country must also be defined here. We have a country in the so-called narrower sense, a country in the so-called broader sense, where, of course, we add funds to this country, we add municipalities, agencies, in short, what could be, according to the ESA 2010 methodology, or sometimes ESA 95 methodology. And I certainly want to know: How many countries have this property? What is the value of this property? According to what methodology is this value, this price of this property, this is the wealth of the country, in fact all citizens and citizens, by what methodology is this actually calculated? I believe that in the market, because probably only the market exists if the state manages it, if the state sells its assets, buys assets and so on and probably must also have value. I believe that there may be differences in sub-methodologies, perhaps in the area of infrastructure this is different, perhaps in the area of housing again and so on. I'm Minister, I'm asking you this question. I know that, within the government, many ministries manage this property; and the Ministry of the Interior has housing to protect, and then we have the Ministry of Administration to deal with it, but still, the finances are yours and the assets are what really matters here. We have financial assets here, of course we are also talking about these shares and so on, which the country has in individual companies, for example on Telekom, for example, in all those companies that are under SDH and many more. Of course, we also have kindergartens, schools and so on in a broader sense. How much is that actually worth? It's a matter of the Ministry of Finance. And I know that there is also a special Directorate for Public Accounting that has these balance sheets. After all, every two years, or every year, depending on the balance sheet, the country shall forward this to the National Assembly. So it's simple: How much is this property at some market prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u99	The word has been given by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u100	Dear Member of the Mags. Andrej Shircelj, if I can start with the methodology, I know you know these things well because you've been working on it, but for others, because it's a very accounting matter. First with regard to ESA, it was 95, now it is 2010. This is the statistical methodology by which the revenue and expenditure of the state sector and the balance of the state sector are calculated on the basis of the origin of the event, we usually call it the accounting principle. This methodology is not intended to monitor the property balance sheet, but it is true that changes in the state's financial assets may affect the balance of the state sector, according to ESA 2010, in the case of transactions with units belonging to the state sector, in accordance with the classification of units of the State sector. According to what methodology do we evaluate the property to which the question was also raised? This term is the legal term that represents the entire asset of the balance sheet in the accounting language. These are therefore all long-term assets, tangible fixed assets, intangible assets and long-term claims and short-term assets, according to money short-term claims and stocks. If I go after them, how each of these values and then perform in the balance sheet, we call that property. The tangible fixed assets, real estate, movable property and intangible assets shall be valued at the purchase value. The purchase value consists of the purchase price, import and other non-refundable purchase duties and direct purchase costs. If not known, data shall be taken as comparable to the same or similar fixed assets owned by the State. In real estate, values are taken, as you said, according to the GURS mass valuation methodology. Financial investments in the initial recognition shall be valued at the purchase value that is added to the transaction costs, financial investments in listed companies shall be valued as you said at fair market value, in accordance with accounting standards. Financial investments obtained free of charge shall be valued at the purchase value or fair value, if not known, and at the book value. The claims of all types shall be shown in the amounts resulting from the documents when the initial valuation is made. Stocks of goods shall be valued at the purchase value. However, it is true that tangible fixed assets can also be revalued, especially for real estate. As regards the value of this asset, this methodology is evaluated at 31. 12. 2014, this is the true value of the state's assets, which includes all direct budgetary users of the state budget, the value of EUR 31 billion 388 million 314 thousand 677. This is said to be the value of the entire asset, the aggregate balance sheet, this is a total balance sheet that is not consolidated. This amount covers all those categories that I mentioned earlier, and if there is time, I will say so. The value of the consolidated property of the State and the municipalities shall be stated by the State sector at 31. 12. 2014, this is a broader one, amounting to €45 billion,698 million, of € 412 thousand,868, and this is a consolidated wealth balance sheet between the state and the municipalities. In this amount, all these different categories are again covered. So maybe I can just say, the book value of real estates is 19 billion 863 million, the value of equipment and other tangible assets is 1 billion and a half, the book value of the intangible assets is 164 million, the long-term financial investment is 12 billion 391 million, the money is 3 billion and the short-term debt is almost 6 billion euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u101	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. To complement the answer, I would like to ask in terms of the reality of all these figures. In fact, you, Minister, have also said that we have different methods, something of purchasing value, something of market value and so on, and I think this is a big misunderstanding. Since there have been long-standing changes in this area, I wonder what will happen here. That's the thing. Secondly, if we take it now, you said the property is for 19 billion, we also have many properties owned by the state. And I want to know: Is the list of property owned by the State complete? Is most of the questions resolved? In other words, I am going to ask you this question, very concretely, for two things that you probably know. First of all, the Ministry of Finance is on County 3. Do you know how much this building is actually worth, what the price of this building is? Next question. We know that Banka Slovenije is in a building in Slovenia 35. According to some information, the Ministry of Finance has recently found that this is a Ministry of Finance building and that this building is to be sold. What's the value? Word is, 4 million, 3 million and so on, and only now has the Ministry found out. This is of course a matter of all governments, but whether we have a complete list, or whether the Ministry or Government of the Bank has not in the last 25 years collected any rent or not. And how this will be charged for Banka Slovenije and how this building, where Banka Slovenije is sold, will be sold at what market value. That's certainly a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u103	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u104	With regard to the methodology, I would say that this methodology is in line with accounting standards, so it will not change significantly from this point of view. However, you are right about the completeness of the capture of all the assets that should be on the balance sheet of the state of the country, and the observations by the Court of Auditors were that, at some point, these records are incomplete and that they are followed by the uncertainty of ownership by individual ministries, which, as mentioned earlier, are managed by these individual parts of the property. The Ministry of Finance clears this up and the formal law ministries also regulate these records. Thus, from this point of view, we are in the process of formally clarifying everything at a certain time. And from this point of view, I think that the completeness of this data will be better than it is right now. About the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia is worth €9.9 million, which we have given to the assessor for evaluation. And Banka Slovenije is currently buying out from the Ministry of Finance. The sales contract will now be completed shortly, so for everything that was your question back, I must say I don't know at the moment. However, I know that as soon as it was clear that this building was owned by the Ministry of Finance and not Banka Slovenije, we made an assessment of the value and agreed with Banka Slovenije to buy the building. So certain problems that the Court of Auditors has also detected in the balance sheet are dates, let's say it is 31. 12. but it's 1. 2. With regard to data capture and so on, we are currently dealing with this in the amended Public Finance Act, which is currently being produced. On the basis of the Fiscal Rule Act, as you know, we need to adjust the Public Finance Act within a certain period of time. And here we are looking for ways in which it would be possible to arrange these dates in an accounting manner so that the records are correct. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u105	Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I'm gonna ask you a question about a bad bank. In fact, we have heard a lot of bad news about a bad bank lately, and the culprit for this situation is clear – this is the leadership of this institution, which clearly imagines that they have come to work in some private financial capital fund, not in a public institution, with a public mandate that manages more than 2 billion public money. In general, gentlemen in a bad bank lack answers. For example, they still cannot explain why they failed to fully implement the corrective measures imposed on them by the Court of Auditors in March. Why they did not take into account the Government’s conclusion that they had to limit their income, but some even paid their own backs at the same time. They still can't explain why, for their own expenses, according to the cost of employment and advisory contracts, some 10 jobs in this institution spend 1% of their resources annually, says the Circus 20 million out of two billion. They still can't explain why the DUTB needs a withdrawal from the system's wage policy, says the so-called Lachovnik Law, and why in the country we have a state where, say, the President of the Government pays EUR 5,000 gross a month, a consultant at a bad bank, who is not even a member of the board of directors, is said to be neither a member of the decision-making body, I am speaking specifically from Mr Harjunpä, and for 32 hours a week he receives a salary of EUR 30,000 gross a month, six times more than the prime minister. And wages aren't the main problem. It turns out that this same Mr Harjunpää has very little knowledge of the situation in the companies he is sending to bankruptcy. For example, he acted somewhat surprised at the last meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission when he learned that Banka Slovenije had seized voting rights in Gorenska banka, which he had used a little earlier as an argument for his doing. Then we have Mr Škrube here, who has been shown for the last time to be a member of the board of directors of a bad bank who worked for Deloitte, through this company, to represent Telekom Austria, who tried to take over or take over T-2, and now there is a reasonable suspicion that he is doing the same thing in his new post in public office. And then here we have Mr Baloch, who is the manager of the Factor Bank, the real bank, who has turned its bad claims into a bad bank, is now the Executive Director of the DUTB, where we have the issue of the compatibility of these functions and the question of how a person can perform two such functions. That's why I'm interested in Mr. Minister: Why do you not take into account the decision we have voted on the Commission for the supervision of public finances that you have to forgive the overall leadership? Why don't you take action against Mr. Baloch and Mr. Scrooge? And why [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u107	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Honourable Member Luka Mesec, DUTB or our bad bank has been set up with the aim of making as effective a deposit as possible for various reasons and paying the banks in fact the bonds that DUTB has owed to the banks for the bad claims transferred to the bad bank. If the bad bank failed to pay these bonds from the funds held by the bad bank, i.e. from these poor claims and insurance for these poor claims, taxpayers should pay it. The second thing is, if the bad bank does not work properly, very many companies with large jobs will be questioned. From this point of view, the bad bank, as an extremely important institution was conceived, must work extremely cautiously and run it so that these objectives are also clearly achieved that jobs will be maintained, the cores healthy, the cores preserved and, on the other hand, that the taxpayer's money will not flow back into banks. In order to ensure this, a bad bank must have certain powers and a certain modus operandi that is as effective as possible with the staff, which also allow such a way to operate. It is true, however, that a bad bank must operate within legal frameworks and standards that are normal for such an institution. And when the KPK and the Court of Auditors found derogations from these standards or from these rules, the Ministry of Finance immediately started working on this as soon as the new government started working, and we have prepared a number of corrective measures that concerned both the KPK report and the Court of Auditors' report. If we only remember the measures of 5 March 2015, the Government has taken a number of measures, has changed the board of directors, then has taken note of what we have prepared as a draft amendment to the law setting out the functioning of the DUTB, has confirmed the new remuneration policy, then the business plan – it took note of the new 2014-2017 strategy. It then confirmed the internal act of the process and the decision-making powers of the DUTB committees. It adopted the 2013 annual report and did not grant a discharge and then appointed an authorised auditor of the KPMG Auditor. At the same time, she asked the DUTB to arrange internal acts. On this basis, the DUTB has amended internal acts, with regard to external advisers, for example, laying down the conditions to be met by external operators, procedures and criteria for the assembly of external operators, the definition of competences and responsibilities and so on. DUTB adopted a code of conduct for external operators and business partners, a regulation on job systematisation - this was not the case before, a code of conduct for employees and then, on the basis of all this, it also received a birth certificate on the system of compliance in the field of anti-corruption of the French ETHIC agency. And that wasn't all. She also adopted the integrity plan. As regards what was in the KPK report, the basic organisational act has also adopted a communication plan. However, we have continued to work on this amendment of the law, which is granted and is in coalition coordination. Now you for the government's decisions 6. 10. You know, I have to say that the Government has also set targets for parameters or business indicators. From this point of view, there has been practically an extremely large number of activities in order for the DUTB to achieve its basic objectives. However, we must be extremely careful not to do any more harm than good.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Luka Moon, you have the floor to request that the answer be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I fully agree that the bad bank must work properly, or we will be taxpayers to the detriment. I fully agree with this work. But the problem is that they are not working properly and that the problem with the departure of two persons from the board of directors, specifically Mr Nyberg and Mr Mansson, is not solved. In fact, we still have a board of directors, now they have even been promoted, one of them as Executive Director, two people for whom there is a reasonable suspicion that they are in conflict of interest. The first is because now the executive director of the bad bank is still the manager of the Factor Bank. The second is because obviously there is a great possibility that before he got a job at a bad bank, he worked as an intermediary for Telekom Austria in an attempt to take over T2. So, here's where I'm really interested: Why don't you take action against these two people or at least check if there's anything behind these accusations that aren't mine, but they've been in the public space for a while? Secondly, I will say that the government must act accordingly. Now, in Slovenia we have parliamentary democracy, and in parliamentary democracy, the National Assembly is the one who adopts political guidance, it is said, we are the legislative authority and you as the executive authority must apply them. And the National Assembly has adopted a decision that requires you to resolve all remaining members of the Governing Board and appoint new members. I want to know: Why do you not take this decision of the Commission for the supervision of public finances into account? And thirdly, we also have a legal question: Why does DUTB not go under the provisions of the system law governing wage policy? What is its specificity, or how do you justify it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u111	Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much. With regard to these individual conflicts of interest, as you have called it among the two members, I would only say that in each of the members, first of all, the nature of the conflict of interest has been checked and how the conflict of interest is handled in the event that such a conflict of interest arises. In both cases, it was found that the conflict of interest could potentially arise and also determine how it is resolved – by excluding it from the discussion and from the vote. It's about salary under the system law. Pays are now even lower after these changes on March 5th of this year than can be paid under Lachovnik's law. So it's hard to say here that, in fact, it's not in conflict, it can be even sharper. For both institutions, both DUTB and SDH, wages are outside this system because they are within the financial institutions, where the payment system is slightly different than in the public sector. Which is logical, because otherwise there may be major corruption risks. But as I said, in this case, even the policy of wages is sharper than it is under the so-called Lawman's law, so we have not seen any problem here, which is why we have not intervened in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u113	Mr Luka Moon, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u114	I asked the Minister three questions. Thus, for the first time, why they did not take account of the decision taken by the Commission for the supervision of public finances on 7 October. In fact, we voted in favour of five votes and four against to order the Government to resolve the remaining members of the board of directors and appoint new members. This is not explained to me by the Minister, so I propose that we discuss at the plenary meeting of the National Assembly why the Government does not take into account the decisions of the working bodies of the National Assembly and how to resolve things at the bad bank, because, as I said in the introduction, the departure of the two members of the Governing Board may solve part of the problem, but it certainly does not solve a problem that is much larger than the pay policy itself. The problem is the business of DUTB as such. I think that an institution that is irresponsiblely, economically and inefficiently managing two billion of our assets, as the Court of Auditors wrote, deserves much further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Ms Anita Koleša will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u116	Hello, both ministers, Mr. Minister and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased, Madam Minister, that you are present contrary to the notice we have received, because I think that my question is very current and I am therefore pleased that you will be able to answer it at today's meeting. In the Slovenian space, we have been facing an increase in the number of pupils and students whose mother tongue is not Slovenian, so these are children of immigrants. In view of the above, the concern of Slovenian society, and in particular of teachers and educators, is, of course, to ensure that those children receive appropriate and, above all, quality education, of exceptional importance. We know that for many years there have been training programmes for teachers and educators to teach both pupils and adults whose mother tongue is not Slovenian and are anyway included in the Slovenian education system. For this reason, as the responsible minister, I would ask you to take note of the progress of the programmes in this area and their success. At the same time, I ask you to answer the question: Does and how is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport preparing for more immigrant children? Of course, I do not doubt the Ministry's awareness that in the near future we will face an even greater number of children whose mother tongue is not Slovenian. While it is essential to stress our duty to allow these children and their parents the best possible conditions for integration into Slovenian society. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u117	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u118	Your Honor! Thank you very much for this really current question. Education and school as a field of educational and socialization activities play a key role in involving non-language, national language or mother tongue students in a particular dominant environment. This is especially true when it comes to immigrants in the new environment. The inclusion of children of immigrants, or all those who do not speak the basic language in the educational system, is regulated both in the sectoral laws, namely the Basic School Act and the Rules. In accordance with the Basic School Act, this is 8. Article, children living in the Republic of Slovenia, whose mother tongue is not Slovenian, are organised to learn Slovenian language and culture, as well as to teach their mother tongue and culture in cooperation with the countries of origin. At the same time, we have Article 10 of the Basic School Act, which stipulates that children who are foreign nationals or stateless persons who reside in the Republic of Slovenia have the right to compulsory primary education under the same conditions as our citizens. I think this is very important in the light of developments, including migration flows. What is the most important professional direction in this regard? These are the so-called guidelines for the integration of immigrant children into kindergartens and schools, which have been developed since 2012 also because of some experience in the past, which contain fundamental principles, ways of operating and organising educational work, when students who do not speak the mother tongue of the basic system are involved in the educational process. At the same time, it is also stated in our guidelines that it is necessary to integrate, in fact, the most important to ensure equal opportunities, for successful such personal development, socialisation and, of course, social life, not only by children themselves, but also by extended families. Here, of course, the language is very important, which is why the project was already implemented in 2008-2011, which included in particular the purpose of the development of teaching work, the development of didactic materials, especially for the learning of Slovenian as a foreign language, as well as the implementation of seminars for teachers and the implementation of courses for learning Slovenian, entitled Successful Inclusion of Children, Students, Students of Migrants into Education and Education for the period until 2011. We will also continue with such projects in the light of the current situation, of course. What may be important is that the Ministry has already launched a call for proposals in November 2014 and is thus co-financed by European funds, with the title of developing learning materials in the field of Slovenian as a second foreign language through the implementation of courses for different target groups and seminars for their operators. It is this project and, of course, all the activities that are taking place in this regard that are again the basis, preparation and, of course, also to empower teachers and performers to get closer to the target groups. So also to all those vulnerable groups who, otherwise, must acquire appropriate knowledge of the Slovenian language. So not only are we talking about current developments, but also, of course, the vulnerable groups that we have in our home country. It was also concluded that a regulation on the verification and evaluation of knowledge and the advancement of pupils in primary school should be adopted in a way that takes into account a provision allowing for the possibility of adapting the assessment to students of immigrants. I think that with these ways and gradual placement and adaptation, while, of course, learning the language, we can empower children, adolescents and, of course, indirectly their families at a certain time to integrate well into the environment. As far as preparation is concerned, especially for the purpose of successful integration of refugees in the field of education and education, the following activities are being carried out together with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour in the so-called Contingent Plan, we are also preparing a working group with the University of Ljubljana, which has also given its initiatives, and of course we are also dealing with the challenge of accommodation capacity, in particular from the point of view of the entire family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u119	Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Secretary, nice to meet you. I want to ask a question about health reform. The Coalition Treaty and you have committed yourself to starting health reform as soon as possible in your mandate. Among the main priorities of the Ministry of Health in 2015 is the drafting of a resolution on the National Health Plan and, of course, the adoption of various laws that will essentially strengthen somehow primary health and all other areas and, of course, also ensure better health for the population, reduce inequalities in health and so on. I'm afraid we haven't seen these laws from you this year. At the end of September, however, you presented a proposal to amend the Law on Supplements to the Health Act, which you have somehow also marked as a small step or part of the health reform. Shortly after this presentation at the press conference you had on 25 September, there was a heated response from the Medical Chamber, namely, that you did not somehow include or introduce the Medical Chamber in the proposal to prepare such an amendment to the Health Act. Therefore, the Medical Chamber also wrote a letter of protest, a letter, on several sides of the explanation why they object to such a proposal. In view of your commitment to your preparation, perhaps or at least in words that you want only the best for our citizens and, of course, also for qualified people in health care, they point out to the Medical Chamber that, with your proposal to amend the Health Act, I am speaking in the field of concessions that concessions will die in the coming years, and this will affect patients in particular who will no longer have a choice of type of contractor. I want to know: How do you respond to these findings of the Medical Chamber, or what are the main changes you are planning to make in the context of the amendment and addition to the Health Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u121	The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u122	Hello! Hello, Madam Vice President, honourable Member! Thank you very much for that question. It is true that the Ministry of Health has prepared amendments and additions to the Act on Health Activities in Work relating to the field of concessions. Why this part? Because the actual situation in the field of concessions, their sale, exercise and control is very problematic. Unfortunately, legislation is partially lacking, but another problem is that concessions have been distributed in the past as they have. Because of this and, of course, in accordance with an agreement with the coalition partners, for which we are also bound by the coalition agreement, we have given priority to these changes, and for one reason to arrange, as soon as possible, for a comprehensive, systematic way of awarding concessions, which will be granted in a transparent manner, taking into account such accessibility to health services and concessions according to the needs of citizens, in accordance with the public health service network, in particular in cases where it has been demonstrated that the accessibility of residents to health services in a given area is worse than elsewhere. With regard to the cooperation of the Medical Chamber, which you mentioned, let me say again or again, that of course we are cooperating. We have had, I think Wednesday, a meeting with the representatives of the Medical Chamber and we have formed a working group, so they will propose individuals who have concessions to coordinate this proposal of the Law, of course, to make certain comments. In view of the fact that this proposal for amendments is a public hearing, we have also agreed that after this conclusion, we will consider joint comments, both from public hearing and from private concessionaires, both in the field of health care, as well as in the field of dentists. The exclusive purpose of this is to essentially resolve the situation on the ground and the content of it, so that it does not happen as it already is, to sell concessions uncontrolledly, let's also tell foreigners that, for example, on the ground, a concessionaire is going to retire, so I would say, transfer, of course, informally without consent and permission to concession someone else and for that we charge the rent. This is only a few anomalies that occur on the ground and in practice, because of these key changes, for the first time, concern the conditions that legal persons must fulfil in order to be able to obtain this concession, then the reasons and elements where this concession can also be withdrawn if the legal person or private person fails to meet the conditions, then that concessions are awarded on a public invitation to tender, that concessionaires complement the public health service network, that the concession cannot be subject to legal traffic, it is said that it cannot be traded, bought and sold, that they can be granted for a certain period of time, so that, of course, they can then be restored, because it was one of the elements of the fact that we give it for a certain time. Then the criteria for the selection of the concessionaire are set. The conditions to be met by the concessionaire are defined. Finally, there is a transitional period of two years after which existing concessionaires must comply with the proposed amendments when the law is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u123	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much for this explanation. But I still want to know: Do you believe that this amendment of the Health Act is a kind of health reform? Is this one step, as you or your coalition have stressed when adopting or considering an emergency medical aid rule, namely, that it is a health reform? In fact, if that is the case, then I ask you why – if you support this health reform – in this amendment to the Health Act you do not say anything at all about the standards of standards, which, like I am monitoring matters, are the most pressing problem in our health care, does not open the anomalies that occur at the Neurological Clinic, Children's Heart Surgery, UKC Ljubljana in general, the Oncology Institute. Does this change of law not, in essence, prolong the waiting period? The quality of the treatment may, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Medical Chamber, deteriorate. I also want to know: Do you have data on the network of performers at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels on this proposed change? Do you have any idea where these concessions would be or where they would be appropriate? With this change, it seems that you are shutting down concessions in Slovenia and opening doors to the cross-border flow of health services when patients are looking for their opportunities, as well as doctors abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u125	Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you for saying that again. You've asked a lot of questions. Yes, this is part of the step towards so-called health reform; I think it is better to say structural change or change of the health system. As I have already said many times, a comprehensive strategic document, a resolution for a 10-year period, will go into inter-departmental coordination in the next two weeks. The analysis is coming to an end and the public will be briefed shortly. This is only a part of how to remedy the situation in the field for the benefit and safety of patients. By no means do we suspend concessionaires or concession award schemes. We just want to arrange it in a transparent, equitable way, even because patients will know if they are identified as such, who are they going to see. What you mentioned about standards, standards, this is not a matter of the Health Act. We have agreed with the competent or sectoral unions on how to operate. The answer regarding the primary network is yes, but there is no data on the secondary and the tertiary network, unfortunately, because in Slovenia all these years no one has clearly considered it necessary or cared to have it. This is how we now intensively check and work because health providers did not send data, so that we can also arrange the network on the secondary and the tertiary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u127	Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u128	Dear Minister, Mr Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues! We always say children are our wealth. And we all know that we have a very bad demographic picture in Slovenia. We also point out many times that in the Poljanska Valley and in the Sevska Valley they have a large nativity. I myself know families who have five, six, seven children, also in the congregation of Jiri. On the other hand, we find that they do not have their own pediatrician in these congregations, the Jury, Gorenje Vas and the Railways. And this has also been stopped in order to carry out preventive checks, children's counselling, systematic checks and the like. If, on the one hand, we find that there are 4 thousand 782 children in Škofja Loka and 4 thousand 471 children in these three congregations, and these small congregations have no pediatricians, while in Škofja Loka they have six, then we have to ask ourselves if this is normal. Already from these congregations, for example, from Girov, children drive 30 miles [30 km] away from Škofja Loko, how much time their parents lose on the road. The municipalities were also prepared and funded for the rehabilitation of the infirmary in existing health stations, with a view to carrying out these preventive checks in both the Gyres and Gorenja villages and railways. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: What is the coverage of the congregations with pediatric care? What are the criteria for some area getting a pediatrician? What steps will you take to ensure that congregations with the highest birthrate receive adequate paediatric care? However, this is an inequality for citizens, that in larger cities, in fact, everything is within reach, and in places that are a little bit more remote, they also have to drive a bigger town to prevent checks. In doing so, let me say that the primary health care sector also had the Gorenjska profit, if I am not mistaken, in its business. It promised that these outpatients would be reopened on September 1st, but nothing happened. I ask you for your opinion or: How can you as a health minister help improve the quality of birth in Slovenia? Under such conditions, parents will certainly consider whether they can afford any more of these complications.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u129	The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Madam Member, thank you for this question as well. It is true that there was a problem with the paediatric care in these places that you mentioned: Jury, Railways and Gorenje village. Unfortunately, however, this basic problem arose because the contractor no longer met the conditions for safe and professional work. That is why the highest professional body in the Republic of Slovenia, these are extended professional colleagues for pediatrics, advised work in situations where existing premises do not meet the criteria. I must say that the Ministry has already been actively involved in solving this problem a long time ago, although we need to know that this matter is actually within the competence of the local community. So, on the one hand, there was a lack of adequate facilities for the safe and professional work of the paediatric infirmary, and on the other hand the unwillingness to negotiate and talk to the local community in order to solve this problem, especially because certain investments were needed, and of course, it should be agreed on which location this paediatric ambulance would be for our children. As I have already mentioned, we have already become involved in these matters from the point of view of our competence. What we can do is, therefore, we have already called on the Director of Basic Health of Gorenjska to tell us in very detail, to describe what the current situation is and whether there are only these two problems that I have been talking about, whether there is anything else possible. With regard to the teams themselves and the need for pediatricians, however, it is necessary to say that all municipalities together, Gorenja Vas, Poljane, Žiri, together with the municipality of Škofja Loka, have recognized 3.39 teams of pediatricia, together with 7 thousand 498 children identified, carried out together by 5 doctors. In addition, the paediatric activity is carried out by 8 other concessionaires for these municipalities, which together have recognised, of course by the payer, this is the Health Insurance Institute, 1.55 teams. So in the medical home of Škofja Loka on one team there are an average of 2 thousand 212 children. Our goal is to – this is how we wrote down in the resolution – actually unload the pediatricians by the end of 2018 and have a thousand 500 children or persons identified. As a result, additional or extended paediatric concessions will also need to be provided or additionally provided to the place of pediatricians in the healthcare home. The same is true of women's insurance problems, because migration in recent years and the absence of redistribution also have little gynecologists at the primary level. Therefore, these additional paediatrics will have to be provided through distribution within the whole of Slovenia. We will try both through Gorenjska's healthcare home and from the point of view of our competence to provide and find additional pediatricians, but it is essential to ensure that the so-called RSK will be able to grant permission to those minimums for the examination of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u131	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request a reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u132	In these congregations, they did not complain about the number of pediatricians working in the medical home in Škofja Loka, but about the fact that these pediatricians could not come once a week and perform preventive checks in these municipalities: Jiri, Gorenja Vas, and Železniki. We know that up to Jirów 30 kilometers, up to Gorenje village and railways is slightly smaller, but I see no reason why once a week we could not do these checks in these larger places, with so many children. There's something else in the background. You said maybe they didn't make a good deal of it. The municipalities themselves approached the rehabilitation of health stations, i.e. the rehabilitation of outpatients for children, including parents involved, some entrepreneurs, and I have information that on 17 August in Žirje they had looked at the renovated premises of the Director of the Škofja Lok Health House, the head of pediatrics, but there were no significant comments. So they're saying that the rooms aren't suitable, but at the same time, I have information that there is a shortage of pediatricians, and on the other hand, we hear that Gorenjska's primary health is kind of killing out pediatricians. These are the statements made by Dr David Neubauer, President of the Expanded College of Paediatrics, so I don't know where the truth is now and where the problem is. And even if we look at it with common sense, I think these parents would deserve to receive 5, 6 and more children to earn at least this basic preventive health care as close as possible to their home. And in these valleys it is truly a joy to see how many children there are, please be careful that this problem is resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u133	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor to provide a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you for that information, too. I'll check it out myself, but I'm asking you, there's an inspection decision that finds that the premises aren't appropriate. This is the last piece of information that I'm going to ask about your explanation gives me the impression that I'm going to ask myself personally what the final condition is. [[…]] If not, I'm going to form, I don't know, two, three people to go take a personal look, just like they're going to look at before we grant a concession on a second, or is that true what's true. So, according to my latest information, the problem is the space that doesn't meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u135	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer to your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u136	Yes, I would like to discuss this subject, of course if Members would support it. In fact, the problem of pediatricians is a broader problem in Slovenia. We recently visited a hospital, they say we don't have a pediatrician. Some congregations themselves grant special education to obtain a pediatrician. But there are no sanctions if someone is enrolled and then doesn't get a job immediately and goes somewhere else, so everyone wants to be in the center, in the cities, in Ljubljana and so on. In short, we must also ensure equality of citizens as regards health care. And children are definitely a vulnerable group of people, so I think we need to give more attention to this problem. I therefore propose a special debate, and I hope that you Members will support me in this, as this is a broader Slovenian problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u137	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the question of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u138	Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Last week on your proposal, Mr Minister, the government confirmed the project by setting up another state forestry company. Now, I think this is at least in this beginning an expertly disputed, expensive project that will be brought to the National Assembly by the proposal of the Law on the Management of State Forests. Why am I talking about a bad start? For the time being, this project is being set up on a new, non-basic, key basis, I would say institutional documents, such as a business plan such as an organisational structure or at least a temporary scheme for the operation of this new state-owned enterprise. These are some basic documents that provide guidance on how such a project will work in the future. On the other hand, Minister, your statement that this business entity will make between 10 million and 11 million profits a year. Now, on the one hand, we don't have the basic documents here, and on the other hand, we just see how profitable this economic company will be to manage forests. Now I don't know if it's a flat rate or whether it's going, I'd say, to fool around about how successful this business is going to be. On the other hand, only the Ministry of Finance notes that the proposed method of financing a new forestry company poses a certain financial risk to the Slovenian budget. Somehow it also advocates ensuring the establishment of a wood chain in this woodwork. I would say that we have talked a lot now about the food chain, and we have not been able to, I don't know, in the last five years to establish the functioning of the food chain itself. Now we're talking about a new chain, so a lot of words, well, I'd say a very bad realization. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: When is this company actually gonna start working? In view of many open questions and also in view of emerging issues [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u139	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u140	Mr Member, I thank you for the questions raised. This also gives me the opportunity to answer at least some of the open questions that you have raised. However, I believe we will have a lot of talks on this subject in the National Assembly. At the outset, let me say that we are in fact now establishing something that the Austrians set up in 1995, Bavaria, for example, in 2005, this is not some kind of unikam. It's sad that we've had the last 20 years with concessions granted through law. Here I think that it is a common opinion in the way that this country has not benefited from it, and everyone else has benefited from it. I must also say that the law coming into the National Assembly is, of course, harmonised. It is coordinated with the Ministry of Economy, the extensions necessary to make this one good basis for the development of the entire chain are in place, and their opinions are taken into account. However, it is also in line with the Ministry of Finance, including their last comment, which has been fully taken into account, as regards the priority order in the Forest Fund, where it is clear that, because of the law which expires, the payment of the denationalisation beneficiaries at the point where they receive their decision to pay. Now the time stamp you asked me is the next one. The law is already in the process, so the law was transmitted to the National Assembly. I think he's already in the process. When the law is adopted, the Government shall adopt an act establishing a company no later than 30 days from the adoption of the law, when the law is adopted, and the Government shall also appoint the First Director in the form of the Acting Director of the company for a maximum period of 1 year. Its task is also to prepare the basic internal acts of the company and to complete the business plan. As far as the business plan is concerned, of course, the Government could not decide if it did not have the working material that the Government had appointed from the source of the business plan. The real business plan must, of course, be prepared by management, and these starting points have the shape of a business plan. This was the basis for the government to make decisions and from these starting points of this figure, which we quote. The experts who showed them the starting points of the business plan even said that it was relatively conservatively planned. There is also a call for members of the Supervisory Board following the establishment of this company. Here I would like to say the following, because it was afraid that this would be a company where the agricultural ministry would have some influence or excessive influence – it will not be so. The Supervisory Board is the one with the function that is important, the Supervisory Board will then go beyond the SDH criteria, the Personnel Commission will also be there, and then, when a group of candidates comes through these criteria, only 1 member of the Supervisory Board is elected from the Agriculture Ministry. Members shall also be appointed to the Supervisory Board by the Ministries of Economy, Environment and Finance and by two members of staff. As from 1 July 2011, the management of state forests is transferred to society, and then the employees of the Fund of Agricultural Lands dealing with this Fund will also come. The fact is, 30. 6. Most concessions shall be obtained, except for some 700, 800 hectares. These are concessions that are in some ways free of charge to Slovenian schools in use. This way will then go on. At the very starting points of the business plan, it is planned that there is a business period called the second half of the following year, this is specific because there is only half of it, and this is where the works will be broadcast in the way that the Fund controls at this point. And then after 2017 and later – here you probably also read publicly that there is a fear of former concessionaires that they have machines to have people to have knowledge. Then I must say, if they have machines, knowledge and competences, there is no fear. The criteria will be written this way, and we accept them all together in order to take into account the competences as well as the environmental impact, that is, of course, the proximity, which is important that there is no fear of foreigners. There's gonna be some news. This novelty is that, through the tender for concessions and through criteria, they will have the opportunity to obtain work, mountain-mountain farms, which need to be provided with additional tasks. Now I guess that's how I get the questions below, so then I'm going to say some of the numbers we used, and you're going to see that it's pretty conservatively planned. So once again, the government has adopted a draft law that I have sent out in such a way that it has a model that is called the starting point of the business plan, which has all the shape of the business plan, but the business plan is not accepted by the government, then accepted by the authorities of the company. But they're available at the starting point.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u141	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. See the real fact that the current concessionaires are afraid, because we know that in this forestry area there were about 1,000 500 people employed on the basis of their activities. And in fact, with the establishment of a new forest society, and in fact, concessionaires are good half a year before the concession, because in fact their business activity, I would say that six months earlier you do not know how you will direct them into the future or after the concession, it is understandable their fear and some doubt about their involvement in the new system, which will actually bring the new law. On the other hand, forest management; what does this mean for the Fund that we will take away from forest management? The question is how and in what way the denationalisation beneficiaries will also be paid from this title, so that there is no real and real question here as well. I do not think we should be allowed to do anything in any invitation to tender to carry out the activity of the arrival of foreigners on this forestry segment, that we must be so skilled as to protect the actual domestic business environment and that this would absolutely not happen. I'd also like to ask for an answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u143	Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. When I hear your words, I'm happy to see that we think alike. I just want to say, I'm aware that it would have been good if the marriage had been six months before you, because it would have allowed us a little more time. Coalition coordination was longer than I wanted, but not because of the malice of anyone. We were looking for a model of how to do something within the law that would be some other laws that were our basis, say, abroad, is not so clearly written, so how to write that we see that this is the first step in the forest and forest chain. And I think this is where we found the right solution. Maybe the next thing you know, why it's important for us to think about everything. The basis of governance and management of the state forest is not that state forests are transferred to a company that is, however, 100 % of state ownership and cannot be sold. Forests remain owned by the state. And the state-owned undertaking, in order to be able to operate and manage it, has a refund of 20% of the revenue. 20% of the revenue is very conservatively taken because it takes into account that it will not grow. However, the reserves are cut by up to a million and half, and this conservative calculation takes into account the assumption of a business plan that there are 1.1 million cubic metres all the time, and only then we get into the forest fund 11 to 12 million euro. The state budget comes from two sources, then money. The first source is profit and then profit tax and up to half of the profits that are accrued to the Ministry of Finance, from here we talk then about the number of 17 to 21 million then in the following years. Is there any danger that our people who are doing the work now will lose their jobs in order for foreigners to come? This, of course, is what matters most. The law allows us to do so through the criteria in such a way that the proximity is taken into account. The proximity is essentially what must be the basis, and the other is the competence. However, if fear is present and the following is justified, we will no longer allow those who work in the state forest to work under different conditions than in private. It is now observed that some concessionaires working in the state forest are working for the country under worse conditions than they do in some private forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u145	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you. I propose that a debate be held on the establishment of a new forestry company or on a proposal for a new law that will allow this to happen, because it is a matter of establishing a state-owned society. In fact, the funding of this company is focused on the state budget and there are still a number of issues open here. For this reason, I propose that a public debate be held to actually answer all the open questions, which are quite wide, and that the whole business entity, the entire forest and forestry chain, in fact from cutting to the consumer of any timber product, be significantly affected. I propose that a public debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u147	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well, hello to the secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask a question about the day of care, whose price is quite high in the homes for the elderly in our country. On average, 44.47 euros had to be paid for one day of care last year. Prices range from 476 to 802 euros per month for the cheapest care, i.e. in homes where the elderly are staying, who are still mobile, who take care of themselves, living in the living room where they have a roommate, and in this room do not have a bathroom and toilet. From the annual reports presented by these homes, we find that some homes also make high profits. Only 12 out of all 42 public homes accounted for €5.5 million in surplus last year. It is difficult to accept the fact that two-thirds of the shares are being contributed by security guards or their relatives and local communities, while the rest are being contributed by the Health Insurance Office. For years, the state has allowed such profits home, and that is the problem. I don't think there's any particular need to guess who or how disadvantaged he is about that. As can be seen from these profits, individual homes for the elderly are building new homes — we have heard of an alarming case in Ptuj — or they are restoring existing ones, even though depreciation has already been accounted for. With half the pensioners receiving very low pensions, we are talking about 600 euros, which is at the threshold of poverty, such a policy is problematic. I ask the distinguished minister: How does she see this problem? Especially since the Constitution declares the principle of the social state and should not tolerate such matters. As the matter is more problematic, I would like the Minister to answer this question in public at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you. The Minister will answer your question at the next meeting. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Dear Minister! In recent years in Slovenia there have been increasing weather conditions, we know, these are droughts, glands and floods. Almost every year we also have floods in the autumn, which, I must say, cause a lot of concern mainly to the part of the population that lives along the watercourses, and also cause a lot of financial and material damage. To remedy the consequences of the flood, as we know, we are always short of funds. However, it is also known that many of these funds have not been used effectively. Not to touch or mention official procedures that are very slow and complicated at all. It is also known that we have quite a number of studies in this area, but there is no way and no way to perform on the ground. It is true that at this time the Ministry of Slovenia is preparing and conducting various seminars on this subject, it is said on the topic of flood safety, but these discussions or dedications are somehow more general in nature. At the local level, however, I must say that we are expecting some concrete answers and, of course, proposals related to the removal or flood security alone at the local level. From this very point of view, a civil initiative was appointed in the Upper Savinja Valley, which, together with all seven mayors of the Upper Serb municipalities, would like to draw attention to this problem, particularly to the very sensitive flood problem that affects the upper stream of the Savinja River with its tributaries. I must say that this river, with its inflows every year, causes floods and huge material damage. The competent institutions have so far not responded to mayors' warnings and initiatives. However, it is also known that there is no regular maintenance of watercourses, and the state does not want to hear about concessions for controlled removal of grammes from Savinja. With regard to the flood safety of the people living in the upper edge of the Savinja River, I am particularly interested in: What are the Ministry's plans and activities for improving flood safety itself? For my answer, Minister, I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u151	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I think that everyone in this room shares with you this fact that when the rains are foretold, we are worried about whether our watercourses will be able to take all the water past us or threaten to flood us. I admit that last week, watching those videos from Italy and from neighbouring Croatia was really, at least for me, extremely stressful. Indeed, in this climate phenomenon of storms is a very short separation, whether it is with us or neighbouring countries, and of course, as the images show, the situation was extraordinary. It is true that in terms of climate change, nature proves that it is stronger than we are, and it is also true that in the waters, nature proves that it is stronger than humans. This does not mean, however, that we do not approach the implementation of the reduction of anti-float security. Currently, measures of the water management plan are in the public debate, including in the area of Slovenia. It's a roof document. This roof document is very important because it shows the integrity of our platoons. Whatever we're looking at, it's a cycle, so it's water in multiple forms. It is true, however, that with a flood risk reduction plan, we will also be on the ground with stakeholders, and with the municipalities we will review this plan in the following month – it is in the final stage of preparation. Most of them will be expected, of course, not just the areas, we have already talked about this many times, 61 areas, and there will certainly be a lot to expect from the definition of financial resources and what to do. I must say that this plan to reduce flood risk includes construction and non-construction interventions. Non-construction — Why? There are areas where these floods cannot be reduced by construction operations. One such area is certainly Kras, where unfortunately there is nothing to do with construction operations. It is true, however, that we are already making investments this year in this plan to reduce flood safety. This year's rebalancing was about €85 million for all these measures, but it is true that we have provided 107.4 million euros in government – this is good news for me already; at least €28.7 million we have provided for the public service and for the implementation of those works that we have identified in 185 locations throughout Slovenia. This is about the rehabilitation of the parts caused by floods in recent years. The fact is that financing is being carried out to provide flood risk in Savinja, which includes the municipality of Luče, the municipality of Celje, the municipality of Vojnik and the municipality of Laško. And on Drava, there's quite a few of these locations, most of them actually in Koroška. So I would say that we are trying and preparing documentation, because it is true that there is no documentation in the course of construction operations without documentation, so building permits must be obtained. State spatial plans need not be based on the adoption by municipalities of an appropriate UNO to ensure the implementation of these anti-floating measures, but on the issuance of building permits. Maybe I'd like to add, but I don't know if I can make it, so we're also working on the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the high-water embankment in Gornja Radgona, which is about 1.5 million. Then there are flood measures along the Voglan, then Voglan goes to Savinja. The value of this measure is 12 million 800 000 and the municipality finances 15%, and this measure should also continue. There are also some of these measures — mostly, we are working! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u153	Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask Mrs Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, and Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. There has been an environmental disaster in the Celje Cauldron for many years that has had a fatal impact on citizens' health. Data from the Ministry of Health show a 50% increase in lung disease compared to the Slovenian average, a 20% increase in cardiovascular disease, almost 7% increase in cancer, and 10% increase in statistically standardized age mortality. I highlight the year 2004, when more than 30% of the patients died after cancer than the Slovenian average. I remind you of article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: "Everyone has the right under the law to a healthy living environment. The country cares about a healthy living environment." I do not know the law that would allow for such a healthy living environment in the Celje Valley, as defined by the data provided by the Ministry of Health. I remind you, the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia has banned gardening in critically poisoned areas because crops are toxic. Moreover, an official emission of 106 thousand kilograms per year of carcinogen dust particles PM10 and 23 thousand 600 kilograms per year of even more dangerous dust particles PM2.5. With heavy metals of cadmium, thallium, mercury and arsenic, contaminated earths are unacceptablely risky for the population of the Celje Valley for the purpose of dusting and draining groundwater. The watercourses of the Age and the river Hudinja, Voglajna and Savinja are at risk, as stated in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C104/14. I therefore ask the Ministry of the Environment, of course I also refer the question to the Minister of Health, because this is very related: How do you intend to carry out the task referred to in Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which imposes on the State a concern for a healthy living environment, except the establishment of various commissions — in a specific case, the rehabilitation of the identified unhealthy living environment in the Celia cauldron? How does the ministry that you run plan to rehabilitate the land in the old and new Cincarna areas in order to prevent dusting and leaching into the groundwater of toxic metals and non-materials? How is the Ministry leading it intended to protect the waters of Dobe and the rivers of Hudinja, Voglana and Savinja and to remedy the illegal deposit of Bukovzlak as derived from the judgment of the EU Court of Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u155	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you. Perhaps we would begin, if you would, honourable Member Hanžek, with a final question. This is a plot of 115/1 k.o. Teharje, which the Ministry of Environment and Space really needs to clean up. The fact is that, according to the Environmental Protection Act, the originator pays and, in the case of the introduction of material to this partial number, the inspection procedure, which took place for a period of time, has not produced any results. So it didn't figure out who was the one who brought all this junk to this lot. Of course, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which means that after we have seen the basis in the Government, we have already obtained the consent of landowners to perform works on this plot. We also had a meeting with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, because it can potentially be on this plot — that is, under all these wastes — also the cemetery of postwar beatings. However, it is true that the invitation to tender or public procurement has already been made, so that next month or the end of this month, a monitoring with piezometric wells will be established, and depending on these results, we will then prepare a follow-up to the procedures that we will also evaluate and find the most optimal option solution. Therefore, I cannot answer your second concrete question because this is not directly the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. I understand and agree with you, of course, that they cannot be just a working group and just some plans and nothing really happens. Therefore, at the Ministry we have drawn up regulations under the IED Directive, which, of course, are based on the extent and extent of such pollution. It is true, however, that unlike Zincarna, which has produced this first thorough review on its own, all other companies in the Celje Cauldron must now complete such initial reports within a year and a half. The rehabilitation of the Celje Valley will certainly be – I can't imagine that this could be regulated by any regulation, about as for Mežica, but a legal basis will have to be drawn up, because working organisations will have to take part in this rehabilitation, I am sure that the municipality and, of course, the ministry will also have to participate. I don't mean the Ministry here, I'd say, except for that. But there is a difference, as I have already said; there has been a bankruptcy of the company in Mezica and as a result the Ministry, the government, has taken responsibility for the rescue procedures themselves. In Celje, however, all this pollution is caused by a number of companies, not just the Zincarna, and they will have to work together with the local community and together with the country to improve the situation in the Celje Cauldron. But the fact is -- at least I'm sure -- that you're not, but when you meet many, it's hard to make the dilemma that there will be no perfect recovery. So to have the idea that all of a sudden everything will be clear in the Calyenne Cauldron, it's not possible either. Finally, the pollution of the Celje Valley alone took more than 100 years, so it will also take such a gradual process to bring nature back to a better situation than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u157	Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The secretary said earlier that she was horrified, hurt, I don't know what word she used when she watched the floods. Nice. Well, we see floods destroying something, but here are things you can't see, and maybe they destroy health and life even more than a variety of floods, – that you won't think I underestimate – and that goes. I prefer to say some things here, by the way, that I will try to make an image out of this, because some special answer – except that it thinks to look for the culprits, to look for those who will, but go bankrupt, but I still know – I did not get most of it. In any case, the constitution states that the state is responsible and the state is constantly looking for someone else to do it for. For example, white powder on the roof of Cincarna is not baking powder, but cancerous TiO2. The third point of Directive 2004 goes on to say: "Scientific evidence shows that arsenic, cadmium, nickel and certain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are genotoxic, carcinogenic substances and that it is not possible to set a threshold under which these substances do not pose a risk to human health. They affect human health and the environment with concentrations in the outer air and sediments." I can list many more things that show this picture. Among other things, as an extremely irresponsible relationship, I would mention about 500 cubic metres of toxic substances transported to a park in Celje, in the middle of the city where children play, where it was already a year and a half ago, that it was necessary to remove it – and of course no one has done so yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. She'll answer. Supplement [[…]] Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. If you allow me, I would still be a little more complementary to the data on mortality, because it is still necessary to look at a slightly more complex picture than the Member of Parliament mentioned. Data on the mortality of the population show that the so-called age standardised mortality in the Celje region and in particular the Administrative Unit Celje is similar to the average in Slovenia and even lower than the average in the region. It is true, however, that heart and blood vessels are the most common cause of death, followed by cancers that are unfortunately even on the rise in the proportion of deaths. So, cancer as in, I'd say, cause of death. Therefore, the risk that the resident or resident in the administrative unit of Celje will be affected by any cancer is comparable to that of the average Slovenian risk, while even in the administrative unit of Šentjur near Celje it is 14% lower than the Slovenian average. However, for citizens of Celje there is a 1.2-fold higher risk of breast cancer than for the whole of Slovenia, or for men for prostate cancer, while for citizens and citizens of Vojnik there is a 1.5-fold higher risk of prostate cancer and mouth, throat and throat cancer, such as the average of Slovenia. Of course, among the cancers that may be caused by exposure to toxic metals, there was a greater risk of renal cancer in the municipality of Vojnik, within the municipalities of Celje and around the area of Prosenisko, Bukovzlak, Vrh, Sun and Teharje. As you rightly mentioned, at the time of the IVZ or now NIJZ in the early 1990s, it had already pointed out the urgent recovery of air and water, so it prepared the necessary starting points, even one project, one research was done this year, and these activities, which were also supported by our ministry, are mainly focused on the implementation of measures to reduce exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Hanžek, request a debate at the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much, both ministers. Of course, I demand that this extremely problematic, extremely critical situation in one part of Slovenia be discussed. Some people here wrote about the barbaric act of infesting toxic waste in a park in the middle of Celje. It is nice for the minister to teach me about mortality indicators — I have a lot of control over them. I've only shown one that's directly attached. It is clear that there are many other indicators that show fewer deaths, but even if only a few people have died more from atmospheric poisoning, it is an alarm. In addition, you yourself admitted that 20 years ago experts had warned about toxic waste. The question, as far as I know, is the question in Brussels. Will we wait until we get another warning from Brussels? In Slovenia, however, we are trying to find answers to those we do not find who have gone bankrupt, instead of taking any responsibility that the country has under the Constitution. Therefore, I certainly demand that at one of the next meetings we talk about this extremely problematic thing; but the destruction of human life is not visible, as can be seen on television by fire or water, but quietly destroys the health, lungs and human organism, but not only the human organism, but also the animal, and the plants there must not be used because they are too toxic. I think that these are important enough and alarming indicators to make it faster, to do it immediately and not wait years and years to do it. Above all, this is an act — not only of the local authorities, not of the state, but of the fact that the park in the middle of Celje is not being rehabilitated for a year and a half, where the celian health institute has found that there is the same poisoned land as where it is most poisoned in Cinkarna Celje, and one year and a half already waiting for transport and everyone would say, avoid and seek an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the votes. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Since the Minister is not here, please also define how to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, hello, everyone here! The Residence Registration Act imposes upon us the obligation to register a permanent residence at the address where we are actually staying within 8 days and to register a temporary residence within three days if we are staying at the temporary address for more than 60 days or regardless of the duration of the stay, where the landlord has to regulate it by law. Here I mean tourist, guest and accommodation facilities. Information on applications for permanent and temporary residences shall be kept in the Register of Permanent Populations belonging to the Ministry of the Interior. In the past year, Mr Cernač, former Member of the Ministry of the Interior, raised a written question relating to a large number of permanent and temporary applications at the same address. The answer he received, in my opinion, is worrying. In fact, there are many locations where at the same address an extremely large number of people have been reported at the same location. According to the May 2014 data, the largest number of permanent applications was at 24 Strekljeva Street, Maribor, with a total of a thousand 128 permanent applicants and 621 temporary residents. This together means about a thousand 750 people. Now, it's very difficult for me to imagine what a building would have to be like to have almost two thousand people in it. Unfortunately, this is not the only case in Slovenia. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: How many similar locations in Slovenia where there are more than ten people in the apartment unit? Here I mean permanent and temporary residents. Do these people actually live at this address? Is that checked? If so, in what way? If people actually live on these individual addresses, I want to know: Does no one wonder what living conditions these people are living in? And. What are the reasons for reporting such a large number of people in the same location on the same housing unit? I would like to request an oral response from the Minister at the forthcoming meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister! In the near past, the so - called Renee boy is known to have exposed the problem of sending treatment abroad in a public way. At that time, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance refused surgery or treatment abroad, explaining that not all treatment options have been exhausted in Slovenia. The boy suffered from a congenital deformity of his leg. After the then publicly known data, Slovenian orthopedics proposed amputation of the leg. Because of the sacrifice of a family that had not lost hope and surrendered to the wheel of the system, and especially of the charitable citizens and citizens, Renee’s story ended happily; the boy is already running for the football. This case only further revealed the anomaly of the system with which citizens and citizens meet daily. Citizens wonder how much longer we will have a system in which citizens are forced to overcome their own dignity for optimal treatment, to fight exposure and begging in public, to help themselves with various charitable actions, to collect stoppers and similar ways to obtain the necessary resources for effective treatment abroad. What is more, since we are talking about children — is it even possible or provided optimal treatment in countries? The broader dimension of this problem is seen when we find that there is the same problem in directions for treatment abroad as when there are so-called complications in the treatment process itself. It is said that when injuries occur in the treatment process itself, and irreparable consequences or consequences arise, which could somehow be corrected or even remedied abroad, the same rate of the insurance company and the simple treatment abroad is refused. That's why, Minister, given the facts, we both know that we've discussed this somehow, not just at the board meeting, but I've asked you two questions. I want to know: What will you do specifically to ensure that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights and Dignity and on the provision of treatment, we do not meet such matters in the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u168	Dear Members, Members, Vice President, honourable Members! Thank you for that question. It is true, as you mentioned, that we have already discussed this subject, but should be said again at the outset, and as has already been answered in written questions, that the referral to treatment abroad, such as all other compulsory health insurance rights, is under the responsibility of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and not the Ministry of Health. When deciding on the right to scheduled treatment abroad, of course the Health Insurance Office is obliged to comply with the applicable legislation. Here I am primarily referring to the applicable Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. In the event of the exercise of the right to scheduled treatment abroad, when in Slovenia all treatment options are really exhausted and treatment is justified to expect recovery, improvement or prevention of further deterioration of this condition, in most cases the reason for refusing treatment to be sent abroad is that for the first time all treatment options in Slovenia are not exhausted, the second possible refusal is when a person applies a service which is unfortunately not covered by compulsory health insurance. In the decision-making process on this right, the Institute of Health Insurance on the exhaustion of treatment in Slovenia obtains the opinion of the Tertiary Consilium, it is said that the highest professional institution in Slovenia, which is then the basis for the decision whether the insured person is entitled to treatment abroad or not. If, unfortunately, the opinion of this consul is that either Slovenia has not exhausted all options, then the insured person is not entitled to treatment abroad and otherwise the institution approves such treatment. And that's how it works in practice. The insured person may, however, apply for a posting abroad even if it occurs that a waiting period is set for the admission to the waiting list, which exceeds the maximum permissible waiting period, or that there is no other operator in the Republic of Slovenia who would do the same quality adequate health care within a reasonable time. Of course, in this procedure it shall be re-examined whether the date set for the insured person by the health service provider is within this maximum allowable waiting period. If it is found that it is not within that framework and that there is no performer available in Slovenia, of course, in such a case a person will be drunk for treatment abroad. If it is established that the date set for the insured person in the health care provider and that it is not within the maximum period of time allowed, taking into account reasonable time, the institution shall also determine in such a case that the opinion of the board is necessary and shall decide on the basis of this Consile whether or not to refer this matter to treatment abroad. Protected persons may exercise the right to scheduled treatment abroad under the Council and European Parliament Directive of 9 March 2011 on the exercise of patients' rights. However, prior approval of the institution is necessary, and on this basis, only in the case of hospital health services involving the accommodation of an insured person and other health services requiring highly specialised and expensive medical infrastructure. However, it will be possible to debate and propose other solutions when proposing legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u170	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I am very glad that you are here to make a public statement on what are the reasons for sending treatment abroad. The case that I am talking about, and you know it, because I was more specific with you – here, because it is a public matter, I do not want to point out the name of a 12-year-old boy – is, indeed, the distinguished minister, that the consul gave a positive opinion. On the basis of a positive opinion, it is said that in Slovenia all the options for successful treatment are exhausted, the insurance company again refused treatment abroad. And by explaining that there have been no changes since the beginning of the problem. Of course he's not here! The boy has sustained injury. A boy who goes into a time where it will still be important for his further development into a person who will be able to face all the challenges in society. Minister, it's just proof that something doesn't count very well. I know the law, I know the good part of Article 77, and it also makes clear to you that the funds need to be monitored. And you can do it. On the one hand, the insurance company has profits, and on the other hand, we do not take care of children who may be affected by the consequences, because we do not help them in time, and this country has cost much more than the cost of treatment or sending treatment abroad. That's what I'm talking about. I ask for an answer, given that you have explained when treatment is taking place abroad and given that the board gave a positive opinion and that the insurance company does not take it into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. I don't know the details of this case. Not specifically the opinion of the Consul. If that is true, then the institution has acted unlawfully and unlawfully and I can assure you that I will check. But I would like to see details if that is true, for if that is the case — whether that is the first opinion of the consul or the second. Because the law has to apply to everyone. But, as I say, I will then address this to the Department of Health Insurance, and if necessary, you will also receive a detailed written response. I doubt, however, that this would indeed have happened in this case, that one public institution, the public treasury that pays our services, would not have respected the law and would not have respected the opinion of the highest professional body, that is, the Tertiary Chamber for this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, are you requesting a debate at the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. No, I'm not asking for a debate. All I want is for the Minister to give me this answer she's going to get. Given that the test of the Maxylphacial Surgery Consilium is positive [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u175	I'd like to ask you. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u176	Just to finish because the lady said she'd find out. [[…]] The secretary said she'd find out. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u177	The continuation is intended for this purpose, ma'am. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u178	Yes, and I have to say now why I will not propose a public debate because the cheese seems right to the Minister to have the opportunity to check the matter and obtain final information. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will raise the question to the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask the Minister for Slovenia around the world and the replacement of Mr Gorazd Žmavc with regard to the project of archiving training and the recording and editing of archival material in Slovenian societies, which was presented to Slovenian companies somewhere in early September. This project, however, was not presented by the Ministry in the budget debate some ten days ago by the Commission on Slovenians around the world and instead by the Ministry. As we know, the main task of the Slovenian Government is to preserve Slovenian national consciousness among Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Among the very different ways to achieve this, however, a particular city has an archiving activity. An orderly memory of the past is a prerequisite for a successful future for Slovenian communities around the world. In the past, the Office organised several seminars for archives of Slovenian societies from around the world, in cooperation with the archive of the Republic of Slovenia as the central Slovenian archival institution. The result is excellent archives in Toronto, Sydney, Melbourne and elsewhere. They say at the office that they realize that the situation is not so far away that they can rest on laurels. They doubt that all societies have properly arranged to store and digitize their materials in the same way or at least in the same way and in the right way. The following in this proposal for this project says that in the past it has proved to be extremely difficult to transfer knowledge acquired at a seminar in Slovenia into its own archives. In line with these starting findings, they propose to move on to an upgrade and a project that will help edit archives and in some way advise on how to arrange archives in accordance with the expertise and other archives. For this purpose, and confirmed, in the archives of Slovenian societies in the next few months and years, groups of two to three persons, composed of an archivist from the archives, a student and probably someone from the office, are expected to leave. Such a project and approach would have a greater impact than the seminars and would have achieved other cross-cutting benefits, says the paper. That's why I'm asking the minister: What is the purpose of the project, and what is the reason why you will not continue as before with education? Why are archives scheduled for field visits? In view of the fact that it was not presented: How will this be financed?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Gorazd Žmavc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u182	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member Daniel Krivec, I thank you for this question, because I think you are actually opening up topics that are very important for the functioning of our office with Slovenians in place and around the world. In particular, you are opening up the topic of this project of training archives and recording and editing archival materials in Slovenian societies. I fully agree with you that without a historical memory there is no future, and without an orderly and professionally regulated historical memory at all. We are also giving this particular emphasis in our work and our activities in the coming years at our office. However, I must say that so far, several seminars have been organised in the office in recent years, including in cooperation with the Republic of Slovenia Archives, this was in 1999, 2004, 2008. The results were that at that time the archives were also arranged in Toronto, Sydney, Melbourne, and elsewhere, but that many companies did not handle their material in the right and uniform way. The archival material is also constantly emerging, and continuity is also essential. As it is said, the seminars were useful, but they started to appear largely the same people, but together we found that the knowledge acquired is extremely difficult to translate into practice; it is said, into individual archives. The price of these costs, which ranged between €30 000 and €40 000, was also negligible. That is why, on the basis of all these indications and perceptions and discussions, also on the proposal - or I will say - we would also like to organise a consultation with the leadership of the Republic of Slovenia Archives this year, where we have in some way proposed a new approach; that is, that archival experts come to the very ground, to the societies themselves. In fact, the basic plan is for an archivist from the Republic of Slovenia to travel to the field in the months and years to come, if necessary, another assistant, but the aim is to determine the physical, technical state of the archive, the existing feeding system and so on when visiting the archives on the site. To advise the members of the company how to maintain, edit and record, as well as digitise the archive material as carefully as possible and in accordance with expertise, while at the same time helping to edit the archive in its place. In this regard, we have decided that we have also signed an agreement with the Society or with the Slovenian Archives on cooperation in a joint project to record the archives of Slovenians worldwide in September of this year, where we have somehow set these mutual tasks. However, in this project and in this agreement, which we have also sent in writing to individual companies, for which we have also received a lot of positive answers on this initiative and on the basis of these initiatives or on the basis of the answers, together with the Slovenian Archives, we will try to systematically approach the plan for the implementation of these projects. [[…]] However, the honourable Member, and we do not rule out the possibility of seminars through this agreement, but it may also be a combination, but in practice we are introducing this additional part of the archives, the professional work of the archives directly in individual societies, because we think that this would mean a systemic and more effective solution to this issue, which is very important for Slovenians around the world and in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you're asking for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you, Minister, for that first part of the answer. In a way, we can agree that such a project is also useful, interesting and perhaps has some benefits, but I also asked why this matter was not presented to the Commission because it is still a new approach. Given that you are talking about the benefits across the board, I think Members would be happy to hear what all-round benefits such a project brings, and in particular I would like to hear about the financial commitments, as the budget will be adopted in a short time and if it is a new project, this could mean that other items that have already been triangulated in one way or another with regard to substitution programmes could still be reduced. You are talking about the costs that are supposed to be distributed by key, but as I can see in this material, it is mainly the costs of the Office for Slovenians in the replacement, which covers the costs of transporting an archivist and a student and so on. There is nowhere to see what the archive or other partners in the project would do. Above all, it bothers me when you talk about all-round benefits, you talk about one point that archives will be properly redesigned with the help of the archives from Slovenia – complemented and so on.This can mean a lot, it can also be considered that someone would, I would say, look for some documents that will then be questionablely stored if we are a little malice. I mean, some of the pervasive benefits are not exactly correct. From this address I would like to hear a little more: What is understood by this notion of the pervasive benefits and remodeling and complementing of archives in this dictatorship?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Gorazd Žmavc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u186	Dear Member, I agree with you that it may be entirely a sentence that may be incorrect, but we are saying above all that it is necessary to examine the possibilities that would give some new results. However, I agree with you that we have not yet opened the subject on the Commission, because, in fact, after examining this response, which we will also get from the ground, from the sides of the societies, we will actually come up with a plan at the next meeting, because we have also promised you a cut and we will include it within our own budgetary resources, which is important. However, here too, the agreement we have with the archives of the State, I think we are going to make costs; they are with the employees, and we are going to make some commitments. However, we will see this only on the basis of a plan that we would set for next year and also present this cost structure. In this way, we will follow and provide timely information. However, I personally believe that we will stick to the expertise and instructions and activities that we would conduct with the archive and in this professional way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Počvalšku and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u188	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Economy, Minister of Agriculture! The government of Mira Cerar has decided that tourism is a strategic sector in Slovenia, including from the strategy for the management of state property, it is clear that the Government places tourism in a high place, in some respects also tourism in state ownership. In fact, tourism represents around 13% of gross domestic product. In Slovenia, three pearls – Bled, Postojna Cave and Lipica – have been mentioned ever since it was in the former Yugoslavia. The last one's in front of the bankruptcy, before the bankruptcy. The fact is that Lipica is divided into three ministries – is that so? And of course, the main question for both ministers: What are you gonna do about Lipica? We have an entity of the Public Institute of Kobilirna Lipica and we have an economic company Lipica Turizem. In recent days we have been able to read in newspapers that in fact the country is acting illogically to me, as Lipica Turism called the assembly and none of the owners were present at this assembly. Given that Lipica Turism is in the management of SDH, it could be said that indirectly four ministries in the country are dealing with Lipica. Lipica is a calvary. In one word, we could describe: also a disgrace to Slovenia, what is happening down there. In fact, as I said before, since 2007, Lipica Turizem, an economic activity, has been losing. What will you do as ministers in this area? According to some information, the Government should take a decision on Lipica Tourism already in March: whether to opt for recapitalisation or to opt for bankruptcy. Dear Minister, I expect very specific answers: What are you going to do today or what are you going to do tomorrow? What makes the situation in Lipica the way it is? Do they feel responsible as ministers?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u190	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members! The mission of Kobilarna Lipica is the breed of lipican and the preservation and development of cultural and natural heritage, and therefore the cobial or cobial area has been declared a monument of national importance. However, this enormous potential must also be exploited for economic purposes, this is our position. In particular, we consider that the coordinated operation and development of all accompanying tourism activities and the effective exploitation of the business potential of this area are essential for the effective implementation of the mission of Kobilar Lipica. This must provide part of the means to protect primary content, as well as part of the implementation and development of all other economic activities or, if you wish, tourist activities. Today, however, we are faced with the fact that this part does not even survive itself or is in danger of bankruptcy. For this reason, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has already proposed and has also identified the view that Lipica must become a single and comprehensive organisation as a single tourist destination, which is now world-renowned as one of the most beautiful in Slovenia. That is also why – and this was one of the reasons why at the Ministry we decided to support ourselves with €5.6 million of European funds for the development of tourism, investment in infrastructure works in Kobilana, which serve primarily, in short, the entire Kobilina, but within this tourism. Because of decisions in the past, we now have several business entities for the Kobilarna Lipica area, which we do not think is good. The Slovenian State Holding company has drawn up 4 different scenarios regarding the possibility of Lipica Turizim operating further. We have the view that only two options are possible, either the reunification of both entities, where both activities would then be carried out, or the fourth variant of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which speaks of Lipica Turiz taking over the marketing and promotion of all parts, is said for the whole area together. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has already adopted all the proposals of the Ministry of Field Affairs – in short, it has had its position and we are confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will adopt the most optimal and good proposal for a solution for both matters, for the company Lipica Turizim as well as for the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica or for the entire region of Lipica. I believe we'll do it in a very short time. Of course, another of the most important things must be said. However, for any solution in the area of Lipice, we need to have adequate personnel who will be able to manage and manage the destination of Lipica in a way that will ensure the implementation of the basic activity and for the growth and development of the economic part of Lipica, that is tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Dejan Jidan, mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you, Chairman. The Messenger, the Messengers, and the Messengers! As you said correctly, there are several activities on the site, the most important of course is the Kobilina, which also manages most of the location, and I must say here at Kobilina that I am glad that a lot of things are going for the better. With these investments, which have already been mentioned, what is most important is to increase sales of products marketed by Kobilierna and are increasingly part of market activities. If I only say data for this year, by the end of September the visit is the highest in the last ten years, let's say if we compare these species. A mere group of 68,000 visitors, a school of 30,000, a motorcade of 3,000 900, and other products of many use 5,000 700 visitors. According to the Kobilarna Development Plan, these numbers will go to 100 000 in 2017 and 130 000 in 2020. We are also committed to managing the failed Hotel Maestoz because we are talking about Lipica Turism, we are talking about managing the failed Hotel Maestozo to get rid of it, but not at the expense of Kobilarna. The account of Kobilarna has been saved for the past ten years, and whenever it was resolved that way, it was dived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u194	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It is my personal opinion that these answers show us where we are. I think the only thing that would be is for the ministries to unify themselves and to kind of bring the matter together. Because the Minister of Economy, as I can see, is aware of the problem, but you, as Minister of Agriculture, see everything in some superlatives and talk about the best results that Kobilna Lipica achieves, and we read in all the media that the matter is just before bankruptcy, that the matter is just before the collapse, and you say that there are the best results here. Why did the country not send people to the assembly convened by Lipica Turism? We can read that the country recapitalised by state funds in 2010 with €1.5 million and irregularities were detected for €880,000. Who will take responsibility for this? Today, there have been criminal charges and 880 000 euros have been spent on non-intentionary funds for various projects. We can also read what you, Mr Restorationk, have mentioned that these 5.6 million European funds are at risk if things are not resolved. Dear Minister of Agriculture, you have also replied that after studying SDH you will propose certain measures and proposals. That's what you mentioned in February, today we're in October. I expect your answers. And on the other hand, as we see: Why does the state not decide to grant a management concession?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. He'll answer. [[…]] Here you go, mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u196	This good information I have spoken, and I have also forgotten to mention that we have managed to prevent the intention of the neighbouring country to register on its Unesco list of Kobilirna and now a joint project through our Kobilarna will be carried out. All of this information is true and applies to the Public Institute of Kobilarn. This is not about bankruptcy, this is about developing and increasing this product, which is a market product. Where there is talk of a very poor situation, but not only this year, but also in 2010, even before 2007 when there was a separation, it is that the market activity represented by Hotel Maestroso is an easy activity that should even give extra money for Kobilarna, because it has essentially the possibility to live to work in an area where horses attract visitors to go from this activity to Kobilarno, from Kobilarna, that is, from the public service, money poured into the market activity. I am the one who is fully aware that it is necessary to market not only Lipica as such, but Crassus as such, because there are Scottish caves with more than 100,000 visitors, there is also a teran and there is also karst prosciutto and we absolutely support it. What I am pointing out, however, is that the business model where the market activity was part of a public institution has in the past proved to be a year-on-year spillage of EUR 100,000 from public to commercial activity. This is also what the Court of Auditors pointed out. I agree with the others; Crassus must be marketed as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku, and the Minister for the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll continue where the mag is. We're talking about the pearls of tourism. One of the, unfortunately, increasingly hidden pearls is Pohorje. My question is basically very short, but then I'll explain it a little bit. Revitalisation and Revitalisation of Pohorje, as I may have even written this a little too much in question. The referee minister and I know how nice Pohorje is, because when we're not in Ljubljana, we grow his defenses. During the event in Slovenian tourism, which still generates one eighth of GDP, in particular on our end of Styria, it happened that after 40 years you have a position when you come to Pohorje with gondola, you have a village of Pojtokin: hotels are closed, they are on a bad bank, this bad bank is really bad in this context. As Minister Restoršek at the Chamber of Commerce in Maribor warned, however, there is no restructuring, certain capacities are being sold through Telekom, we are talking about the importance and development of tourism, about the wooden chain, and at the same time we have someone at Pohorje struggling to make rather uncontrollable use of space by quadricycles and the enduro cross of bicyclists, sometimes very oblivious, although, of course, legislation is already limited, but it is not in practice implemented. And to make no mistake, Pohorje is not just the Maribor side of Pohorje. The mountain is quite extensive, it is a regional pearl that has somehow fallen asleep again, frankly after, I cannot say otherwise than the incompetence of the people who went there. That's why I'm asking both departments: What will you do in this direction, along with the local authorities, along with other stakeholders? What are you doing? How do we reactivate tourism? How are we going to include Pohorje in the wooden chain? How will we tackle these environmental challenges that I have mentioned? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u200	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your questions, Member Trcek. It must be said that a large part of the infrastructure, both cable and accommodation, was owned by the management of Pohorje Sport Centre and its related companies, which are in bankruptcy. In the case of the Maribor ski resort, however, it must be said that — in any case — a small step DUTB took in the restructuring we were talking about at the time. I think that even after discussions with the two ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. Thus, at the moment, most of Marprom’s cable infrastructure is in operation. This way, skiing at the Pohorje will also be provided this year. Also functioning is part of the accommodation infrastructure owned by other companies, called Terme Maribor, who are alive and the remaining infrastructure owned by the Pohorje Sports Centre. This matter is in the form you have said, and this is a matter which the DUTB must resolve in a relatively short time within the meaning of its mission, the other, not only financial, because twice the economic damage is done; the potentials are not exploited; and secondly, the objects that are intended to do so are doing things in the wrong direction. We, as the ministry, have no influence on bankruptcy procedures, nor do we directly influence the decisions of the DUTB. We can suggest, and we've done it in some way. In view of the above, I must say that we ourselves do not work directly for the Pohorje development plans, we will not have them, but in our discussions with the Municipality of Maribor and the stakeholders in this area we have stated and expressed our willingness to maximize cooperation when we find a viable and business-oriented partner, we support all their projects. Because in this case too, we know that this destination will be as successful as the participation of all stakeholders in this area will be; this is said to be private, infrastructure, because this infrastructure is a condition for the matter to live below and above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen will also respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Dr. Duck! The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature has been revitalising and reviving Pohorje for many years. Of course, through our environmental content, i.e. through various projects and financial mechanisms in the transnational project NATREG, Vision Pohorje 2030 has been prepared, where both the need for revitalisation and the sustainable development of Pohorje have been established. The vision with the implementation plan was supported by all the then 16 mayors of the municipality covering the part of Pohorje. Both the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Economy were involved in the preparation. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection, together with its partner on various projects and co-financing by the Ministry of the Environment, is trying to revitalize Pohorje in the Alpine Project – the solar management of the mountains in the protection areas – this is funding through cross-border cooperation between Slovenia and Austria and has also revitalized part of the Pohorian plans in this project. The Wetman project ended this year, but it is about preserving and managing freshwater wetlands in Slovenia and Pohorje was one of these locations. The project SUPORT is currently under way at Pohorje, which is the sustainable management of Pohorje and is financed by the EEA Financial Mechanism, which aims to improve the situation of specific forest habitat types, wetlands, grasslands and habitats and to increase reception, management of Natura 2000 areas. Maybe I'll add something later.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u203	Dr. Franz Duck, do you request a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u204	Yes, I demand a supplement to the answer. This is a good example, because Madam Minister of State explains, there are some resources that we spend on something, and then the train will go on. This is a whole series of things that, if I am not speaking in any way, would also be marketed in some more specific targeted forms of tourism. I am very sad, I come from Maribor, Mr. Restivšek knows his previous shift, and cooperation with my neighbour, Mr. Cink, how quality education we have in Maribor in the field of tourism. Whole chains, our students, high school students are picking up a whole series of awards at competitions, while at the same time watching these closed hotels. Madam Minister also said, of course, that all 16 mayors in principle express support that somehow Pohorje is reactivating, the owner of the bad bank is, frankly, the state and we are here, I am here to warn, but the executive power is here, together with the local actors – whatever they are, none of us are ideal – these things are actually triggered and run. You know, after all, I'm not a populism in this direction, if I turn to the Austrian side of the southern Styria wine road, there's half a staff, half a staff of our people. And that's good, because it's good for the budget, but on the other hand, it's kind of bad. We have young people, they create knowledge, we have Pohorcas, who may be a little bit like me, who from Ljubljana would be a little roundy, but they wouldn't want to be insulting to them, they are working, honesthearted people, and I think they deserve a decent life at Pohorje. Once again, I urge you to enlighten me a little bit: How do we move this thing forward? Thank you. And the Minister will also answer my question about the problem of divination in Pohorje with the vehicles I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer your question. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Zdravšek Zdravko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u206	First of all, I would say that whatever the crisis is difficult, in what happened at the Maribor Pohorje, it is, in spite of everything, not beauty, an opportunity for the right people to come to the infrastructure that is good is built, to the best of their ability to manage better than it was in the past. That's the first thing. Another important thing to say is that we can also understand these changes that we are witnessing in the DUTB in this direction, that business restructuring will be carried out to a greater extent than has been done so far. However this matter was assessed. Thirdly, I must say that without finding people on the spot who will know how to move these things forward, there will be no way; in short, there is nothing on the part of the State that we can do. However, I believe that any destination, because there will be a combination between the private sector – in this case ski, extremely important, including local, municipal – and with the support of the state, will be successful. At the end of the day, it's a simple recipe that we didn't make up, but we're going to try to rewrite it from the neighbors that you mentioned and who are now hiring those people from Maribor and the neighborhood, because we didn't know how to hire them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Majcen, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you. In view of the fact that Pohorje is covered by Natura 2000, I would nevertheless say that in the Natura 2000 Natura Management Programme, the Pohorje area is recognised as one of the priority investment areas for improving the state, conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem services. In order to prepare the projects under this Cohesion Policy Operational Programme, it is necessary to establish regional partnerships in which Natura 2000 manager must participate. The content of the projects should be prepared as soon as possible. I am aware that these are not the content that has been presented by Minister Restoration, but are the content of biodiversity and ecosystem services. It is true, however, that these projects must have a regional character and that it is at Pohorje that the areas of the Podravska, Koroška and Savinja statistical region are equally involved in order to make the preparation of the programme difficult. However, this should be approached without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Trcek, can I see your request for a debate in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u210	Yes, of course! Coming out of the Rules of Procedure, I request a debate in the National Assembly, which I hope today will be supported by the absent members of the coalition from my territory – the only opposition Member from Maribor – even in the light of the sensitization and moving these matters forward. I don't think so, but whenever I think about it, whoever doesn't know how to have a thousand tourists on the Mountain at any time and at least 60, 70 thousand cash flow a day, I think we should stop them from walking around the Mountain. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dr. Ducky. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Beznik will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u212	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! I can say that the question that I will ask in this mandate is the first time I have put it in my previous term, but this is mainly a housing law, a problem and a finding of a legal void in the area of building management. Let me say that more than one third of Slovenian citizens and citizens live in so-called multi-housing buildings, i.e. blocks and similar buildings, and that regulation, management of these apartments is governed by the so-called housing law. In this case, as the basis of this question, I am asking the problem that we have been tracking, we can say that we are now repeatedly in Slovenia with regard to the abuse of the so-called reserve fund. One of the most resounding cases is in Lenart municipality in Slovenski gorica, where in 2014 there was an acute problem for many citizens of this municipality when the public found out that the manager of the type of multi-housing buildings in Lenart, Servostan, had stopped paying the supplier. On this basis, the tenants of these buildings finally found that this company, for the first time, did not pay that regular electricity bill, the heat supply, on the other hand, they began to receive warnings that they would be shut down and later found that there was no more cent in the reserve fund. Let me say that, at this time, the top-level owners paid €441,000 to the reserve fund in this company and that the liabilities to suppliers, i.e. those regular liabilities, amounted to €291,000. This company then went into the so-called forced settlement procedure. At the end of these creditors of this money, these tenants, who have now stayed most of the time in housing blocks where the necessary rehabilitations, upgrades, window replacements, facade replacements just before winter, were left without any funds. I would like to say that the law so-called housing law provides in Article 41 in 42 for the management of the reserve fund. Somehow, however, it does not provide for the essence of what happens if some property of these people who manage the dwellings comes to this reserve fund. My question is: Does the Ministry intend to propose any legislative measures to amend the legislation in order to protect housing? Not only, as has been the case with the regulation so far, when the funds are protected only from executions of third parties, but also by protecting them against the unlawful and unlawful management of the administrator himself, so that he will not be able to use them for any other purpose than for those laid down in this law and that residents will have an absolute advantage in paying all creditors. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u213	Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The honourable Member, Mr Breznik, has unfortunately been writing a lot lately about the inadequate functioning of many managers of this reserve fund. I admit, we focus on this issue at the Ministry mainly because it is really necessary to prepare the necessary changes to housing legislation. In some ways, we wanted to show that the national housing programme in the procedures through the National Assembly was to be brought to an end, and if any other changes were to be made on this basis, these changes would also be introduced into the amended legislation. However, it is certainly about changes that will directly address the management and management of the reserve fund's assets. With the amendment of the law, we want to introduce additional guards, strengthen supervision of the work of managers, in particular in the part relating to the management and the resources of these top-level owners. Surely we also want to correct the provision which states that if, for the first time that this meeting of the first-level owners is convened, the majority is not assured that only those attending the meeting will in fact decide on a recommencement. We will certainly arrange for this to be decided again by the majority. It is true, however, that, after these negative experiences, owners behave much more responsibly, so they monitor their administrator, trust is no longer as unconditional as it was at the beginning, and this has in some way ensured that these irregularities will no longer occur to the extent that they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, if you please, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I hope you are aware – and even part of your answer, I can say it has satisfied me, but the other part of the answer is still very problematic. We can say that the law should also provide for certain infringements, certain abuses of this reserve fund. In this case, the law refers to certain penalties, fines, if the administrator fails to make certain legal articles and fails to comply with them — such as, say, the reference of the high-level owners and so on — at a certain time. Of course, it does not mean that this decision would somehow benefit from the money. In this company, which I highlighted, Servostan in Lenart, for example, this manager, this company, this company, had in the same account, under the same company, this was a limited liability company, I could say commercial activity and the activity of managing housing, and this company is somehow this money, including the money of the reserve fund, we could say as some means of trading activity. When this trade activity got into some problems, they built a new fund, and then this reserve fund money was also somehow used and misused. I can tell you that the other organs don't work, either. As you can see, such violations are increasing in Slovenia, the law enforcement authorities, as far as I know, are working very badly, do not prosecute, because in fact they are also crimes, we can say abuse, manipulation, and also fraud. I believe that this should be amended by law, at least in this part of the law, that these housing managers, the reserve fund, should have – is a special procedure when they can be managed somehow, exempt from this money and that this money is indeed allocated at that time [[Incomprehensible]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Let's say the world decides to make some major investment on an object. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer, Mrs. Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u218	I must admit that a broader framework is taken into account in the preparation of these solutions. It is true, however, that the drafting of the amendment of the law will also be in public debate. I wish we could have some initiatives from the field, or at least in some way the recognition that solutions are appropriate, then of course it is here in the National Assembly but separate accounts for each individual object is – this solution is already recognized as basic; so there can be no more objects in the same account. It is true, however, that residents will probably have to empower someone to raise or dispose of these funds together with the manager, since these funds are sometimes used for smaller investments, and it is only right that the operation of this account is sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic will ask the Minister a question [[…]] Excuse me, excuse me, request for a debate at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I hope you understand that a general explanation is required under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is a problem, it is a threat to a number of top-level owners in Slovenia. As I said at the outset, about one third of the Slovenians live in multi-compartment buildings and in my deep belief, the belief of many lawyers who have addressed these problems both in Lenart, where we have been dealing with this problem for more than two years, is that there is a legal void and that this legal void has somehow not been considered by the legislator that the managers may somehow abuse these funds and through societies, in particular with unlimited or limited liability, they may use these funds in certain cases. Societies go into some kind of forced settlement, by the authorities of persecution to these people there is a lot of passivity and somehow people, as in this case of Servostan in Lenart, come through a successful enforcement settlement, and on the other hand there is a debt of 450 thousand euros – let's say, only in Lenart, and that of the top-level owners, most pensioners, in buildings that were built at the end of the 1960s and that have higher costs today, let's say, over the winter for heating and so on. I think the problem is very hot and very urgent. The novelty of this law – however, as you said, sometimes this reserve fund must be somehow operational in order to raise some small amounts – precisely because of such abuses occurring in Slovenia, we must protect the reserve funds. And that's what the law must foresee. Unfortunately, some of our citizens and citizens do not live by some of the principles of a good master, and some of them do not seem to have bad intentions or to be as mind-blowing as they are in this case. Thus, on the basis of a rule of procedure allowing me to do so, I would ask for a public debate mainly on the legal void in the housing law. And also the answer to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Franz Breznik. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the vote. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak and Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Dr. Anya Digač Dark is a percentage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Probably all of us in these days have been monitoring how refugee and illegal migrants are moving against the European Union, across the territory of Slovenia. This brings a number of challenges to the aforementioned ministers or to the two ministries, education and social sectors, because, within this framework, it is very important to accept the refugees envisaged by this European integration plan, how we will accept refugees under this quota in Slovenia, 120 000 and probably more, given the numbers now coming, how we will integrate these refugees into society; whether we will do this in a smooth way or we will do it successfully, as we now do in some way, leading legislation with some Slovenian courses, with employment courses, with bankruptcy, to teach them the history of the Slovenian people, to teach them about our culture, or to be unsuccessful in this place, and to promote xenophobia, racism and other negative guidelines that accompany each migration, often unjustifiable and often justifiable. Slovenia now has some measures and some laws in this area, but these laws have been adapted to a significantly smaller number of migrants. We know that we've adopted them annually between 20 and 40, but now if this number is going to grow to about 600 in the next year, probably these laws that we now have and those guidelines that are now being drawn up will not be enough. That's why I'm interested in: Are you preparing any measures to improve the integration of refugees? And if we may already know: What numbers, as far as financial means are concerned, can we talk about? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! Thank you for this current question. I will also refer to the question raised earlier by the Member of Parliament regarding the language, because it is a crucial integration moment when, in cases such mechanisms need to be put in place as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible, in the case of cases as they are now taking place. First of all, from the point of view of the law, e.g. the Basic School Act, and of course the guidelines already adopted at the time when we have dealt with such a problem, but in another way and thus have acquired some experience, these are still valid and we will stick to this in this case. This is about organising, I am talking mainly about this educational aspect, including an appropriate lesson concerning language, culture and, of course, integration in the central, including school space. At the same time, we know that children who are foreign nationals or who also declare themselves as asylum in their wider family or who may also be stateless and reside in the Republic of Slovenia have the right to compulsory primary education under the same conditions as domestic residents or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and here I quote Article 10 of this Act. I think it is right to point out this at the very beginning of the answer to your question also because on this basis the so-called guidelines for the inclusion of children have been developed either in kindergartens or in schools. These exist since 2012, and we are now dealing mainly with these current developments, as you yourself have pointed out, including integration. At the same time, we have already carried out several projects, such as the successful integration of children, students and students of migrants into education and education and the so-called project We are developing interculturalism as a new form of coexistence. I think that this moment is now crucial because it is a matter of different cultural aspects and acceptance of these and, at the same time, a consequence of integration into society. At the same time, let me say that the project is under way to develop learning materials in the field, in this particular case of Slovenian language, and, of course, with the aim of using different target groups. Why do I point that out at the starting point? Because these are the elements and tools that will be very helpful in exactly what your question refers to. What is very concrete at this time – I will be responsible primarily for the field of school or education, of course, the Minister of Labour will be able to add another part of the aspect that is certainly being addressed at this time in the field of social or equal opportunities – at this moment we are also, as the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with its representative, constantly included in the so-called coordination group which is preparing these contingent plans or activities related to the implementation of this plan. At the same time, we are in constant contact and preparation, as regards capacity, from the beginning, we can say, the refugee crisis, in particular our focus in the spirit of this so-called extended family or the most vulnerable groups. These are women, children, young families, for example. In recent days, however, there has also been an initiative of the Rector's Conference or University of Ljubljana on the potential integration of migrants into study programmes, resulting in the acquisition of education and the verification of such education. These are all current activities. Of course, to what extent these preparations and activities will be taken into account, but as you have already mentioned, it will depend on the scale and also, I can say, the speed of flows and, above all, the placement of migrants in our space. Accordingly, we will also react as we have done so far, for example with regard to the proposal for capacity and the resolution of certain situations, and we will also certainly respond to the inclusion of children or broader families in integration procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u225	Mr. Jan Mahnic, a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. That is to say, if I understand correctly, we now have a plan from 2012, which we do not yet know whether it can be taken into account, taking into account the increase in the number of refugees. But I want to know: Will financial resources need to be increased and, if we already know, to what extent? Are we talking about a whole change in some system in terms of this number of social inclusions? We're probably talking about some multiculturalism here: We're going to choose a model quite as unsuccessful as Sweden has, or are we going to choose a more successful model than they have, say, the United States? There, somehow, all cultures have been united together, and here Europe has somehow been allowed to have every culture to be its own. With this we allowed segregation, some pushed on the social edge itself, and it comes to this, let's say that, for the last time, I read the data for Germany, children from immigrant families have significantly worse learning success because they somehow cannot be included in this environment. I don't think that's what anyone here wants, because we're going to start running fast and connect it all. Then with extremists, both left and right, we see that it appears in Sweden, given that they're locked in ghettos where even the police don't hope. I hope that this will not happen, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere. For the past four days, I have been at the CDU's subjugation, and I must say that in Germany, from that first thrill, there has been mostly sobriety, real reflection, and some fear. There won't be a job for everyone, but what if we can't get them into society and all those things that come in. Can we just talk a little bit more about this? Do we already have a financial plan, how much more will this burden our budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u227	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. As far as some very clear financial plan, i.e. already very specific numbers, is concerned, it is difficult to assess at this time, because we cannot now say how many of these actually declared migrants will come with the desire to coexist in this society and that this will be decided in the end. That is why this plan is just a hypothetical plan at the moment, but of course we are also preparing this part to be able to organise these forms of integration relatively quickly, especially for children and young families and the most vulnerable groups, as I have already mentioned. As regards experience in terms of integration, I think that Slovenia already has some good experience, of course, from other circumstances and other moments. I think that the most important thing that you have stressed is the acceptance of this multiculturalism, which I can say right now, as far as education processes are concerned, but it is already going through various forms through the curriculum, namely the acceptance of diversity, the acceptance of diversity, the simultaneous coexistence in this wider space. I think that this is still an important concept of awareness that we as a society are open and that we can also accept differences at a time when this is most urgent and necessary in terms of human relations, dignity and respect for the diversity of cultures. Perhaps another emphasis on the entire vertical itself. Of course, the needs for this are very different in terms of migrants; from basic circumstances, protection, care for children, even placement of students, as I mentioned earlier. Therefore, it will also be important, in accordance with this and the extent to which we will be able to accept, to harmonise its integration concept in each part of the education, as it is also a matter of different degrees of difficulty and also of different possibilities of placement. However, we are very aware of this in the Ministry and we are also trying to do so with the projects that are under way now, in some way also to raise the awareness of all of us, that these are the moments that actually concern not only us, but the whole of Europe, and also the end of the wider global world, and that we also need to establish some continuity of this awareness, given that obviously as migration flows have been for centuries and before, of course, they have also emerged today and we must be prepared for them. Thank you for this current question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, request a debate at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you for that answer, Madam Secretary. I agree with you that different cultures are rich. However, we must be careful here, and refugees will have to be included in society. However, it must be made clear that we live in Slovenia and that the primary culture here is the culture of the Slovenian people. These refugees come from different backgrounds and cultures, although it is positive that we are culturally different, but they are not to be thrown into a pot. It is simply not a culture where women are oppressed, the same culture where women have the same rights as men. I don't know what kind of culture people stone, like on the other side of the culture, where you go to jail for crimes. And last but not least, nobody wants it to come to us as practical in Sweden, that wearing state symbols is already marked as a fascist act, because the country, a national state, is supposed to be an intolerance, some fascist model, and because of this, for example, they punish individuals, we can read in the media that comes in the uniform of the Swedish football team at school. I don't think that's what we want, and we're going to support the measures that go in this direction. I will not ask for a debate, but it is my procedural proposal that the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs answer me in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I have in fact announced this oral question of the judiciary reform. I allow the possibility of explaining to myself, of course, what a reform of the judicial system is, but I listened to Mr Plitsanič about this reform in our government, then I listened to the same minister in the next government, that is, in the government of Alenka Bratušek – but there was nothing. You said something about it at the presentation before you became Minister. But what's happened so far, what you're saying, I don't know if it's reform or not, whether you said it is or not. But what's been going on so far and I've already marked it as planting flowers around the courts, you said it was that I don't know how important it is. As an example, let me tell you that you also wrote there that there will be no financial consequences. The judiciary is now saying that those integrity commissions need €24,000. I mean, this is really interesting. That's because those committees are definitely not going to solve anything. In short, I am asking for a serious reform of the judicial system: When will that be? Above all, the Slovenian public could already know: What's that gonna be? I know you can't spell it out exactly, but where this reform is supposed to go and when it's supposed to go, of course, I think you can give it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Member, Dr. Gorenak, Members and Members of Parliament, Members of the Minister and Fellow Members. Here, I think we have different views on what reform is, what reform means. We have repeatedly discussed this in this National Assembly and in the competent parliamentary bodies, from which it is very clear that there is no reform for you other than lustration. Here we can look at the magnetograms back, so no nodding with your head is not necessary. Your speech on judicial reform is always very pompous. I also understand why. While the fact is that there is a lot of what we are dealing with today, even as a result, I will say so, and then I will make it very clear what we are doing here. [[…]] There were over 700 judges in Slovenia before the first Janša government began. After the end of Janša's first government, there were over a thousand judges, because Lukenda's project had been saved, the bailout project was saved by hiring new judges. Today we hear from you that we have the most judges per inhabitant, which is of course true; and we are trying to reduce them slowly. You yourself were a minister in one period. Under your interference, there was a state's attorney. I think you made two laws at the time and were adopted in Parliament. No one has touched the State Prosecutor's Office except for its transfer from the judiciary to the Ministry of Justice. Here I have a bitter taste when I listen to all these stories about what was done; and what is the planting of flowers. We have adopted this year, this Parliament has confirmed 16 judicial laws or 12 which were some of the rules that I have signed myself. You can say it's a flower plant. This was absolutely not a reform of the Slovenian judicial system; it was a step in the right direction. Because if you have, for example, the adoption of a law that provides for a more objective, transparent procedure for selecting candidates for election to a judicial and prosecutorial function, you cannot say that this is the planting of flowers. Also, the opening of the legal service, the publication of decisions by ethical and disciplinary commissions, I will dare say that, in the last case, about which your fellow Member asked me a very sincere question a few months ago – I think that Member Breznik – about the payment of legal services, the charging of legal services concerning Slovenian citizens who have parked in Croatia and received high compensation. Solicitor's office responded. Today its decision should also be published online. I dare say she's different because she had to be transparent. And it made itself clear to the citizens, for the first time in history, also because we changed the Law on Lawyery. Now it's about reform itself. You're aware, even though you're not a lawyer, but you're the justice minister in the shadows, if I read it correctly, the justice system is not something you change with one law. Contains a series of widgets. There are only eight organisational laws that determine the conduct or organisation of the Council of Justice, courts, prosecutors, state attorneys, notaries, executors, administrators, lawyers, experts; these are organisational laws. Then you have procedural laws, key ones, the CAP and the CAP. I know, last time you said to my secretary of state, "So when are you going to write the CAP?" I know you're too smart to really think when you'll write it so quickly. You know how demanding this is. I promised if I could see the end of my term, the marriage would be ready. Whether it will be accepted, I don't know, because it's gonna be written to drink water, to be consistent with all the stakeholders, you know it's hard. Now, in particular, we have taken the first step. This has given us time to perform functional analyses on individual subsystems. The following year, I promise you at this point that you will be given a change to this Parliament's law on state defence, the law on state prosecution, the law on judicial service, the law on state legal examination, the law on notariat; of all these builders, that I will not now list which will have to be combined. They will follow the four key elements. Firstly, increasing the quality of the trial, increasing the effectiveness of the trial, increasing accountability and increasing openness. And as far as openness is concerned, there is no change in the law. In this National Assembly, I have already said that, together with the Institute of Joseph Stefan, which is a respected institution, we are preparing an application that will allow, together with the State, the Supreme Court to publish all judgments on the world web. But here I think we're on the same level and we have the same goal, but it's not that simple to technically ensure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, request to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u236	In the latter case, of course, I agree that this must be done, absolutely. As soon as you said there was no reform for us if there was no lustration; I don't know who ever told you that. I don't know where you've heard that, and which one of the speakers or my fellow Members of Parliament spoke about the lustration of the judiciary. Give me that tape, give me that document or the tape or whatever it is, and we can clear it up. Let's just say I never talked about it. Never. Look, the interesting thing is, I'll say. However some of you turn to words, we always come to the fault of John Janša. After all, make a movie on this subject. You know exactly how it was not possible to introduce some temporary judges in 2006 and 2007, when the Lukenda project was started, because the constitutional and legal arrangements were such that the judge was as complete as he was or was not. It is true, however, that it was possible to reduce the number of judges much more radically in the period after 2008 or 2009. You were talking about 12 judicial laws. I didn't count them. You've been talking about how you've improved the selection of candidates. If, according to these new criteria, the Council of Justice has already ruled and the Government, especially the Council of Justice, on the selection of candidates for the European Court of Justice, then this is insane. Then those rules are stupid. Why? For a basic reason, because that candidate who is far from the best who has studied at colleges or universities that you value yourself is then fourth on that list. Those who do not yet know English are worse because MPS are morally good, probably. I don't know. Okay, I know you don't have any influence on this, this is the Council of Justice. In some ways, I am giving you the opportunity to continue with that part of the answer you started or to say more about the content of the reforms. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on these candidates for the ECHR. Mr. Gorenak, the fact that there's never been a talk about lustration, let's do it. I'll go to the government room, make a quick scan of the magnetograms. I remember hearing this from you several times, but it doesn't even matter; unfortunately, sometimes it does. Don't tell me we're just talking through each other. But once again, I think there's a consensus here if it's well-intentioned. Justice reform cannot only involve a change of one law, if I do not know what we are doing with the courts. The fact that there is a very important difference does not matter that there is a difference, but we can believe that the courts work in a variety of ways. You think, for example, that it is very bad on average; I believe that there are absolute possibilities – not options, but the need for a better functioning of the judicial system, but not going in with fire and sword. We are both very well aware of this, without changing certain procedures, regulations, operations, including other subsystems, legal, notaristic, executive, this cannot be done. And we're doing it intensely this year. The next year we will be able to deal with gentlemen's here, I hope that with all the arguments that I will bring into this assembly, just because they will have to go parallel because any change in one brings about a change in the other. I told you about openness earlier, all the judgments on the Internet. It's not as simple as it's sometimes written when everything's on the computer, let's go online. You know those things need to be cleaned up and so on. We agree on that, too. This cannot be done manually because then these publications would not be available and therefore a computer system should be set up. This is where we got, in fact, the best we could do, the Institute of Joseph Stefan to help us do this. As far as the effectiveness of the operation is concerned, the effectiveness of the action is closely linked to the judicial network as to how it is deployed. I agree with you, I know I've been to Prekmurje the last time, they sometimes lack records there, but we need to allow for greater mobility of judges, greater mobility of the files, so that we can end some district court, maybe a higher court. I hope then, regardless of customer affiliation, you will not say through the local lobby – no, but we may have a court board, even though it is there, I do not know. [[…]] These are things; you know you put it through and it's not easy when you're working. This is where you worked on police reform. However, in the quality of the trial, I disagree, here is the primary responsibility in the courts themselves, because of this [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, request a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u240	Yes, especially because I think the minister meant much more to talk, but his time interrupted or his time was limited. However, to support this requirement for a general debate, I will say so. I wrote myself 11 things that I think should be done. I see that in one of us we are completely in line with the minister, this is the public opinion of the verdicts. I hope this includes who was the judge, not that it's hidden information. Otherwise, I imagine under this probationary mandate, a probationary mandate to be introduced, which I think should be amended by the Constitution. Then I imagine something, no illustrations; but I imagine enforcement and respect, if you like, Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act, which we will, I realize, is very difficult, because one of them has already given themselves a permanent mandate. I imagine a new CAP, I think in 2008, it was very far away, made. And as much as your predecessor Plitschnik spoke to me, he was just about to sign it. That was once said in a Member’s reply here, and I even congratulated him. I imagine you'll put your hands in six plus three plus three. It means six months in the first degree, three in the second and three in the Supreme Court. I imagine that you will introduce non-refoulement in the legislation from the higher or the Supreme Court to the first stage, but that these courts will decide; not return to the first stage. I picture the public of the trial where possible, above all I imagine the public of the faces, that we see who gives judgment, such as in Italy and Croatia. I imagine separate opinions, such as those before the Supreme Court, and I absolutely imagine them because this is absolutely necessary, because we are working today also before a court that reads, who has violated human rights, and it is not said that the judge did it, but maybe he voted against it, but that information is secret. [[…]] And that would be good to be public. I imagine the implementation of that article of the Penal Code, which also speaks of the responsibility of judges, I will shorten, and the guilty trial. And this article is still for decoration. And I also imagine a ban on the departure of gentlemen of judges from lawyers for a certain period. In fact, I know what you will probably tell me in the general debate that this is not possible, that this is nowhere in Europe. You're right, but we do have a police officer who, under the Law on Detective Activity, can't be a detective for four years, and he's been working on car tickets for the wrong parking. And that's why he can't be a detective for four years if he loses his job. I think we could bring something like this to the judges. In short, I'm imagining something like this. You've nodded on some things, but I don't know, but maybe some thoughts are even common. That is why I think it will be possible to talk in the general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, we will discuss your request or decide on Wednesday, 21 October, in the framework of the vote. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. The Minister is absent, so please identify yourself to the way you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. I wish those answers were in writing. In particular, it is home for the elderly. Last year, the homes of older citizens had large operating surpluses, with a total surplus of up to €5 million and a half. We don't practically have homes with losses. But this is about public homes for older people who are non-profit institutions, so these are too many signs that something is terribly wrong with the operation of these institutions. We can look for the causes at two points. Firstly, these surpluses are due to the fact that users are charged too high prices for these services, is said to older citizens. The second reason is the exploitation of employees. In a specific case, we are dealing with signs that both things are happening – that is, charging high prices to users and exploiting employees. Home supply prices vary greatly. In homes that were built in a public-private partnership, they are significantly higher than in public homes alone, but also within this public network, they vary considerably. However, in any case, prices are high when compared with the incomes of our pensioners. Just for example and taste let me say that the price for a double room in the oldest home in Ljubljana is €535. On the other hand, 29% of our pensioners have pensions below 500 euros, 46% of pensioners, almost half of whom are said to have incomes below 600 euros. It is not surprising, therefore, that during the last few years of the crisis, people began to withdraw from their homes for the elderly. This situation will not be remedied without the introduction of a solidarity public insurance that will support our elders. However, the problem, as I mentioned in the introduction, is not only at high prices for users, but also at the exploitation of employees. In general, the situation in the field of health workers is understaffed and, in particular, notably the situation in the field of health workers. For example, there are cases of a nurse caring for 300 guards and then also responsible for her work, even though it is physically impossible to care for so many people. Combustion occurs, there is a decline in the quality of services and so on. Even in a number of DSOs, health workers are not paid overtime; according to the health care union’s assessment, these overtime amounts to as much as €100,000 — unpaid overtime. In short, it is unacceptable to create surpluses at the expense of suppliers and at the expense of workers. That's why I want to know: How will this problem, which is now a systemic problem, not a system of one or another excess, be addressed by the Minister? What will she do about our homes for the elderly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. You will receive the answer in writing. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Mr Minister, I have asked you several times before, a year or two, on the Committee on Agriculture whether there is anything government is doing to mitigate the situation that will arise when milk quotas are abolished. You said you were thinking about it and you were going to make something. We knew that neighbouring countries, particularly Western countries, were preparing a fund and some measures that would ease the reduction in the buying-in price of milk after the milk quotas ended. However, we also expected that with the new agricultural policy 2015-2020, with the new Operational Rural Development Programme, there might also be something within this programme in terms of mitigating these price declines or some compensation for farmers being able to survive. When this operational programme was confirmed, you marked it as a great success. Of course, it was a success because then this agricultural policy could start to come true from this period, especially the payment of the OMD and so on. However, farmers immediately realized that this operational programme did not bring any good, that the resources in those areas where we are not already competitive are even less, that there are fewer subsidies for mountain farms, for small farmers. Moreover, not much has been done to mitigate the decline in the buying-in price of milk. We have now moved on to the situation No, we have then called immediately with the spring urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, where two decisions have been taken. [[…]] One of the conclusions in the direction that the government is trying to complete this programme by the end of the year and get a certificate in Brussels to change subsidies or replace those that have fallen, or more in the direction of the strategy for the development of agricultural policy in Slovenia. However, as you are now aware or have seen, a meeting of farmers has been a warning that the situation is unsustainable and that something must be done in this area. I'm asking you: What are you going to do in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you, and thank you, Mr Laho, for the current question. We were aware that the market situation was changing, so there was a dairy conference last year that I think you are aware of, Mr Member. At that time seven measures were proposed and these seven measures are being implemented. Slovenia was not unprepared in that sense because it could be prepared. But something else happened, something else that we were not prepared for, and not the other 27 European countries. There has been a Russian embargo, which is not due to the integration of agricultural policy into Ukraine, but the consequences of the Russian embargo are felt in particular by agriculture and the food sector as a whole. That is why there has been a severe fall throughout the European Union. Even statistically similar – in Slovenia the price of raw milk fell by 20% in the last year, and so much at European level. Some of the measures are being implemented at European level, the easiest is there, and Slovenia is very much involved in this. The measure, which should at least partially mitigate the situation related to milk surplus, is the prolonged storage of two varieties, namely milk powder and butter. A new one that can benefit Slovenia now is the new storage of cheese for a certain period of time when surpluses are present. What is new is the aid package where Slovenia received proportionally according to its size – 1.3 million euros and 1.4 million euros respectively. We have also fought that it is possible, as a country, to add that much money to it. On this basis, one-off aid will also be paid to farmers, but this one-off aid is only a one-off aid. This one-off aid does not resolve the low milk prices. Structural measures that have been implemented have also been implemented in the past. Perhaps just as interesting, more than 60 million money from the Rural Development Programme has been invested in the dairy sector alone. This crisis, which is now present, is interesting, not affecting the smallest, but the ones that have invested the most, i.e. the farms that have adapted the most. The new agricultural policy is not a policy for small, medium or large, but a policy for farms. Most of the measures are linked to the hectare, and so is the case in the future. There is no difference between farms here. The only difference is that payments can be paid from one hectare forward, and this is the common consent of the agricultural area because we were actually something special with derogation 0.3. At that time, two decisions were adopted on the Committee, if I may say so, including answers to both decisions. The first response was – Will you prepare all the regulations that are tied up in time? Regulations which were important have been adopted, including the Regulation on knowledge transfer and advice measures from the Rural Development Programme; then the Regulation on the implementation of local development. This is a regulation that has €96 million in the back by the way. Regulation on the animal welfare measure under the Rural Development Programme, the Regulation on the implementation of the sub-measure Aid for young farmers, has already been called for. Regulation on measures for agri-environment-climate payments, organic farming and so on; the Regulation on the classification of agricultural holdings, these are the necessary rules for the implementation of the new agricultural policy. By the end of the year, however, two more regulations have to be adopted, this is an investment regulation, it has a long name – a Regulation on measures to improve competitiveness; and then a Regulation on measures to remedy and restore forests after natural disasters. This is the regulation that allows the Rural Development Programme to benefit from EUR 20 million. As far as adjustment is concerned. In the Rural Development Programme, there was only one important observation. This observation was that one environmental measure called Ray, which covered a very large area, is no longer in the new perspective. Actually, he's not here. However, it is not because it was also the subject of a European Union observation and was not allowed to continue this measure because it was based on the claim, for the first time that it is part of normal practice in Slovenia; for the second, it is not measurable environmental effects. In order to help upgrade the regulation, we structured four groups later or very quickly after the adoption of the Rural Development Programme, in which experts from the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Farmers' Union, the Agricultural Institute, DOPS, the RS Institute for Nature Protection, ILO, faculties, the Union of Small and Medium-sized Associations and others. And it is in the fields of fruit, winemaking, agriculture, and veggies, and weeding. These groups were led by Dr. Peter Zadravec, Dr. Stanko Vršič, Dr. Aleš Kolmanič and Mr. Branko Ravnik. And more later, if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, you're requesting a supplemental response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u248	Mr. Secretary! I understand that within the given possibilities and the available money, you are trying to do the best you can. However, in view of the situation of small farmers on steep surfaces, mountain farmers – based on the new programme, there is much less compensation or subsidies than before. Some say over 40%. They were already on the verge of farming or not, but now they see no prospects. The same is true of low-priced farmers where redemption prices have fallen so far that you cannot replace this with the available money or the state has. Farmers say that the current purchase prices cover only 60, 63 % of the costs of milk production. This is likely not to be replaced, but also in the future — it is not just a Russian embargo. We know that neighbouring countries have been preparing for some time at the end of milk quotas, so that they can significantly increase production and thus, even given that they have better conditions, prices will fall. We can expect to import milk from Italy, even though we have now exported it there. That's why I think we started the propaganda too late to buy consumers' homemade, better crops. It is true that this interest increases from day to day, but I fear that this is too little, that more needs to be done, or that the earth will grow faster for us than we will succeed. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u249	Mag. Indeed, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, Mr. Lah, to give you some interesting information. The biggest fear was after the fall of the milk quotas in April of this year, but here the rise in milk production is not as much as we were all afraid of together. According to the data available to me, there is only one percentage at European Union level. Here is Slovenia one of the better. Together so far, this year's milk production growth is 3.1%, and each month it is also 5%; and milk production in Slovenia continues to increase. But the problem, which is new, is the Russian embargo, it wasn't expected in that form. And what concerns us all is that the European consumer has begun to reduce the consumption of dairy products. The European consumer, however, is the largest consumer. The measures we are implementing – we are already a year ago due to potential hardship, but what if it is not possible to sell, Slovenian dairy people have asked us to help open a very large Asian country. It was their desire to take products of some higher added value somewhere because they had to make money. There's good information here that we've carried out administrative procedures. The first week in November I am going with a delegation, I think there are 33 companies inside, not only dairy companies, but also some others who see there as a business opportunity to sell or even speed up, because at this point we have even multiple sales at good prices. The second thing is, informing the consumer deliberately started two or three years ago, if we think about it. We were asked by dairy producers to help us to regain consciousness during the last month. Here you see, another additional campaign, which has the value of poor 60,000 euros, will run throughout Slovenia. And the people in the dairy sector say it has some effect. At the beginning of the following year, a new campaign is being launched, and this is a campaign of selected quality, where dairy production, farmers, their organisers and the dairy industry are the first to reach an agreement; and they will raise money. More than half will be contributed by the country and this will be a conversation with the home consumer – let them buy even more domestic ones. Since it is interesting for milk production, however, if the consumer were to make a majority decision to purchase Slovenian dairy products, the crisis would, according to experts, be the end of the month due to this small production of the processing we have. Yet another measure is not to be ignored, it is also the proposal of this group, we cannot return money to grass through environmental programmes, because experts have not found programmes to convince the European Commission; but we can return it indirectly. And this is indirectly through the use of grass and therefore the second year – we are waiting for agreement, but I think it will be more formal, substantively coordinated – we are introducing a new measure, which is co-financing the free feed of animals. We are returning quite a few million euros of money to the dairy industry over this. Once again, if we buy Slovenian and if the sale of Slovenian milk is organised, it will be significantly easier for each individual farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u251	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to request that an answer be discussed at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u252	President, I would like to take advantage of the business opportunity to vote on a debate in Parliament on a problem that is not so simple. We also had a Committee on Agriculture here on Friday; unfortunately, Minister, you could not be present because quite a number of farmers came from Haloz — large, small, young. In the six-, seven-community area, there was only one applicant for young farmers. One of the young farmers said he couldn't see the perspective. I think this issue is much broader than just the lower buying-in price of milk. In one of the district councils of the Agricultural Forestry Chambers, farmers said that they had information that this year 30% was less inseminated cows. I don't know if that's true. We've received such information that the calf is too small to import large calves. The price of these calves is rising because it's a shortage. Imported calves also bring a lot of disease and then raises costs for desperate farmers. A farmer who ranks 30, 40 cattle, bulls, has nothing under the line, if not even minus, if his work doesn't count. I think the situation is alarming that self-sustainment is so low in some areas that something will have to be done to support those who persist in farming on these small farms. In Haloza, the average farm size is even below 4 hectares of farmland. Even state land, funds, grows because no one rents it. I therefore propose that we have a broader debate here on this issue. Even if we spend all the money that is most useful and economically available from Europe; and what the municipalities can do with their resources, I fear that it will not be enough to maintain that our agriculture will not go practically to nothing. But we do know that food is strategically important, that we have very strict standards, very good and safe food, that is taken care of. It would be a shame to destroy this cultural landscape and agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u253	Mr Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. In the village of Györkös Žnidar, which is quite a percentage, please tell us if you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I want to have an oral response, but that answer is probably going to be a lot different than today's. President, I would ask you to check, I think the rules of procedure say that ministers can only be percentages if they are abroad. I know that she has a lot of work to do right now, and I understand it all; I don't have a problem; but basically, it is only necessary to know that the Rules of Procedure speak only of abroad. I don't even know where he is, he could be abroad, I don't know; but I suggest we check it out. My question is, because I wrote it a week ago or five days ago, I didn't even know I was going to be very up to date. This is a question that Slovenia is currently experiencing, the issue of migrants and everything in this regard. In view of the latest media reports, I am convinced that the matter has escaped control, despite the fact that the representatives of the state and the government are telling us that this is not the case. The fundamental problem Slovenia has right now is that it is the only country, but the only country at the external Schengen borders that is as vulnerable as it is. The Spanish built a barbed wire a few years ago. They were followed in Bulgaria, which even a few years ago built a barbed wire. These people don't have problems today, Orbana is all over Europe, and our government policy has been condemning me for not knowing how long, because he was putting a barbed wire at the border. Today, Hungary is probably the only country in the European Union that strictly follows the Schengen and also accepts asylum seekers. No one said the border was closed. But he accepts asylum seekers, not those who wish, like us, to go north. I am deeply convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should react when we first saw these large numbers of migrants walking on Macedonian railway tracks. It's too late now, that's perfectly clear. Today we are totally dependent on Germany and Austria. These two countries will – and I think this will continue at a declaratory level – receive migrants, but increasingly the quotas will be revived. That means there's gonna be some kind of cork on Shentyl. That'll be the least of our problems. The more problematic is the southern border, which we will not be able to protect. That's why I want to ask the Minister: How's security on the south border? I think we should have had the army long ago — this morning we listened to the minister, who was saying amazing things that the army would be cooking stew and similar things again instead of protecting the border. I would like the Minister to present a situation for the next time, because it is probably not going to be the same as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u255	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to question Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure. [[He's not here.]] Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister of the Interior of Mag. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is excused absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you, President, but neither is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u257	Excuse me, Mr. Breznik is behind you first. Please, Mr. Breznik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought I was invisible that you didn't recognize me. But I'm sorry, too. The next question I have for the Minister of Infrastructure is extremely pressing. There are many cities in Slovenia that are close to our highway cross, and there are a number of centres, such as the center of the Slovenian Mountains, where I come from, Lenart, we have problems with the bypasses. In Lenart, this Regulation is published in the Official Journal of September 2004 and entered into force on 15 October 2004. It shall take eleven years from the date of application of this document. This Regulation speaks mainly of activities for the investment of the Lenart connecting road in the country. Following the motorway programme, a regulation was adopted to provide Lenart with a rolling road, the so-called northern bypass. In view of the budget heavy material presented, it is obvious that this road in question has even been completely overlooked to date. I can say that this problem has been going on for more than ten years, it is extremely problematic because there is an important road from Lenart to Gornja Radgona and on the other hand to Ptuj. This road is extremely transportable, it retains all traffic, local traffic in Lenart, and is also extremely questionable from a security point of view. The daily crossing of Lenart Center, where this traffic is extremely guest, more than 500 There is a primary school nearby in Lenart, which has more than 500 pupils, so it is also problematic on this side. [[…]] As Minister, I ask you two questions: When will the investment in the construction of the Lenart connecting road be included in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in the national development programme? I am not just talking about Lenart, ready for many of the bonds that have been adopted in certain regulations and have somehow always been put on hold. I must admit that to the former minister, when we had, I believe that the funds are limited, the second part of this question, which is: Has a proposal ever been made to include that connecting road in the national development programme and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? I'm primarily talking about this, Mr. Minister: Did you ever mention Lenart's northern bypass at the Ministry? Will it ever be adopted into the national programme? Are you planning a safe traffic arrangement for state roads in the centre of Lenart at this time of arrival? I think the problem is very hot. At the moment, Lenart's centre has, above all I have mentioned, extremely strong traffic, which is extremely hampering local traffic. This investment is extremely important for development, including the economic development of Lenart. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u259	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Franz Breznik, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, colleague of the Minister! I'm going to say that I had a very general question pointed out on your part, which generally referred to the issue of carriageways. I am sorry that you have not indicated in your question more specifically that you are in particular interested in the question of Lenart's connecting road and this northern bypass. I'm sorry, but at this point, with the information you asked me here, I can't handle it. I am aware of the problem of this connecting road, but it is also true that what you mentioned is that there are no funds available for this connecting road in the 2016-2017 budgets. In general, I can say that all the measures to be implemented in the coming years will be based on the adopted Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the Government this July. On the basis of this strategy, we will draw up an operational programme where individual measures to address the problem in specific areas will be operationalised on time and financially. With regard to this connecting road, I expect that its future will be adequately reflected when it comes to the implementation of this operational programme. This operational programme will be more than a dead letter on paper if we fail to provide adequate funding for the implementation of this operational programme. You know that we are also working at our ministry to provide additional resources, otherwise existing resources, in fact, the resources available so far allow only investment and regular maintenance of the existing network; we cannot afford new investments with these resources. While this was happening in the past financial perspective with the help of European funds, in the past financial perspective we have arranged quite a few bonds. This year alone, we have released five of them on the market, namely Ilirska Bistrica, Gorenja Vas, Šmartno pri Litia, Črnomelj and just tomorrow we also open Škofja Loka. In the next perspective, which we have already entered, these infrastructure projects will not be available to European funds, so that their implementation will depend exclusively on the resources we will provide in the budget. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has just joined and is not listening enough to ensure that these projects are carried out further, I hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u261	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Regulation on the State Location Plan for the Lenart–Lower Senarland motorway section, described in this Regulation that Lenart needed a northern bypass, the order number was 109/04. I have also prepared a written question for you, where I have justified these matters, so I would not be too long because I have too little time. However, let me say that the municipality of the Roads Directorate has received a response that investment procedures will start when the investment project is included in the national development programme and budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be important for this project to be included in the national development programme because it is extremely important. It is the centre of the Slovenian Mountains, which is connected to five other municipalities, it is an extraordinary problem in Lenart and the surrounding area, as well as security aspects. I would also like to say that because of all this last 10 years, the municipality of Lenart has joined and has built a smaller southern bypass with its resources, and that these transit transport problems, which are going from Lenart, are being eliminated from the highway and are going through Lenart to Gornja Radgono and so on, of course, is not being solved. He's solving a few minor problems in the Lenart industrial zone. As a result, I am launching a series of these questions, to include the Lenary North Carnivore in the national programme and to resolve them in some way in due course. I must admit that the people who have represented some of the interests of the Slovenian Mountains in the past may have been overheared, perhaps we have been too modest. All the others, who were louder, got these curbs at some point. But the Lenari Oblast and the Northern Carnivore are extremely important to our people. I will not require the continuation of the option I have under the Rules of Procedure for public debate. That is why I have prepared a written question for you, where I have detailed all the chronology of this issue. And then I would ask you to answer this second question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u263	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you, President. As we say, we will respond in writing to all the more detailed information on the issue of this road. As it is said, I will also take the initiative to place this connecting road or northern bypass in the NRP. We will draw up this operational programme by mid- next year, which will then also be the basis for all these projects to be included in the budgets of each year in a timely and timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u265	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister of the Interior of Mag. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is excused absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Over the past year, we have talked a lot about the Islamic State, its activities, its financing, and how to curb these flows in this Chamber in plenary meetings and committees. Recently, some figures have appeared that the Islamic State is the most financially supported terrorist organisation. Despite the fact that it is some Sue generis terrorist organisation that we have not yet known, it acts as a state, which we cannot claim to have before. And that, particularly in Europe, the Islamic State, together with some other Muslim countries, should support so-called radical Islamists through various financial flows, when through some intermediaries they then try to bring this money to Europe either for various activities or for any construction other than that official money. As far as I know, the Anti-Money Office is also involved in these matters. Otherwise, this question was meant for the Minister of the Interior, because we know what legislation Austria has adopted this year – the ban on financing Islam from abroad and some other measures. Belgium, France, Spain and Germany are already thinking about this. Since only the Minister of Finance is present here, Mr President, I ask that the Minister prepare me a written reply; there is no need to be oral at the next meeting. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Have you seen any currents at the Ministry of Finance or your services? Do you also have information on how many of these financial flows have been for the Islamic community in Slovenia from abroad in recent years? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u267	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr. Jean-Mahnič! Activities to detect and prevent terrorist financing are defined in the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Act. It shall, as you have already mentioned, implement the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which is within the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the information obtained from the debtors referred to in Article 4 of this Act. The Office also acts preventively by publishing certain data, opinions, views and warnings on its websites. The area of prevention of terrorist financing, as defined in this Act – all those under Article 4 of the Act are obliged to implement measures to prevent money laundering in the reception, extradition, replacement, storage, disposal or other treatment of money or other assets. All suspected suspects must be notified to our office. In order to identify transactions that may involve money laundering or terrorist financing, the debtors shall use indicators to identify suspicious transactions that they have developed in cooperation with this Office and other competent authorities such as the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Financial organisations are obliged, for all reasons of suspicion of terrorist financing, to act with special care and to inform the Office without delay. The Office has published on its website lists of countries where appropriate measures are not implemented to prevent the detection of money laundering and terrorist financing or are not sufficiently implemented. The list consists of data from the Financial Action Project Group and the Council of Europe Expert Committee to assess measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, so-called MONEYVAL. Four countries are currently listed on this list. Lists of countries known for the production of raw materials for the production of illicit drugs have also been published. Such a list is made up of UNODC, six countries that do so have been published. Countries known as offshore financial centres have been published by the IMF; 25 countries with weak tax legislation, okay, there are 14 countries. What is crucial – which, in view of restrictive measures against their citizens, could be linked to terrorism or terrorist financing and money laundering, 31 countries have been published here. These are probably key to your question as well. The Office shall regularly update the lists referred to above and shall, in its work, pay particular attention to persons, transactions and means which are in any way related to the countries listed. Those lists of countries shall serve as agents for the implementation of this Act in identifying possible suspicious transactions, whether money laundering or terrorist financing. The Office shall actively cooperate with the other competent authorities for all suspected reasons for suspected money laundering and terrorist financing. This question of yours also concerns MNZ. Of course, we work very closely together, especially with the crime detection and prosecution authorities. In 2014, we dealt with the Office and the crime detection body – six reports of the suspected crime of terrorist financing were sent to the police. However, I must admit that at this point I have no information as to how many of these six referred directly to your question. If you don't mind, we'll give it to you in writing. However, I would also like to say that following the international ranking of Slovenia among the first 3 least-risk countries on the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, because obviously we have a very good system. There is Finland among these countries, and there is another country that I don't know about right now. This system is really well-delivered.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u269	Mr. Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u270	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Specific Information. As I said before, the part about the MNZ would ask the Minister to answer me in writing. All I'd ask is Mr. Marble, because he didn't answer me before: Are you still considering the adoption of other laws, especially in the case of Austria and some other countries that are preparing legislation to prevent the financing of Islam from abroad? Especially in the light of the Muslim community that we live with here, if I may say so in cohabitation, we protect them all from being thrown into the same pot. And that those financial flows, or funding, aimed exclusively at financing terrorism or some radical Islamic groups, are also trying to be prevented in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u271	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I must admit that we do not have this in the Ministry of Finance's plan on the rules we are preparing. However, we will monitor closely, and if necessary, we will also propose such amendments or additional laws to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u273	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Culture of Mags. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u274	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Soon we will consider the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which regulates the area in which many irregularities and questionable practices occur. In addition to this law, the Media Act also regulates the area. Both laws specify the shares of European and Slovenian audiovisual works, their own productions and audiovisual works of Slovenian independent producers, which the issuer must include in its programme. These provisions in practice are not controlled in a way that would actually ensure that the undertakings of broadcasters are met. We can rightly question the respect of legal provisions by private programme publishers, which should have 10% of independent production, more than 50% of European audiovisual works and at least 5% of Slovenian audiovisual works. The exception is not public Radiotelevision Slovenia, which in addition to 10% of independent production should have 25% of Slovenian audiovisual works; and of this one-quarter of Slovenian independent production. I want to know: How will the Ministry act on the latest finding by Akosa on the lack of participation of Slovenian audiovisual works in RTV Slovenia? When will the results of monitoring the achievement of Slovenian independent production, European independent production and European works for 2014 be known? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u275	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you so much for asking. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Control over the achievement of the shares of Slovenian independent production, European independent production and European works is under the real responsibility of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, a shorter Akos. Akos is an independent body that regulates and supervises the electronic communications market, manages and controls the radio spectrum in Slovenia, performs radio and television tasks and regulates and supervises the postal and rail transport market in Slovenia. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture has asked Akos for an explanation on which I can answer the following. The Agency completed its control procedures on the proportions of Slovenian and European audiovisual works achieved for 2014. Except in the case of proceedings against the issuer, the Radiotelevision of Slovenia of the TELE M programme, in which the share is known, only information on the justification of objective reasons for not reaching the shares of the European audiovisual works of independent producers shall be obtained. A decision was issued to the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia with a warning of the elimination of irregularities due to the unattainable share of Slovenian audiovisual works on the first and second TV programme of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. In the case of TV3 Medias, the objective reasons for not achieving the shares of European audiovisual works were established because the company was in the process of forcible settlement in 2014. In order not to reach the shares of Slovenian audiovisual works in TV3 Medias, the issuing agency issued a decision warning against irregularities. The issuers of POP Kino and POP Oto programmes were given a decision suspending the authorisation to carry out television activities, namely that the broadcaster was not allowed to extend the programme at a two-hour interval. The issuing authority has duly carried out the sanctions imposed. Data on the proportions of audiovisual works achieved for 2014 are also published on the Akos website. As can be seen from the above, the results of the supervision of the implementation of the ZAVMS provisions are already known and are to be published on the Akosa website. Ifs also states in his reply that the Slovenian Inspectorate for Culture and Media has submitted a proposal for the initiation of an infringement procedure for the offence in question. The Slovenian Cultural and Media Inspectorate will act as a body within the Ministry of Culture and the competent supervisory authority to comply with the provisions on specific programming requirements for the Radio Television of Slovenia under the Media Act on the basis of the Akosa proposal received for the introduction of the infringement procedure. As far as I was aware, on Friday this communication or this decision, the Akos inspectorate has not yet received it, so we expect it in the coming days. The Ministry of Culture also notes that such controls are carried out in a legally appropriate manner, in accordance with the sectoral legislation on infringements and inspection. However, the supervision under the current Media Act is somewhat different from that of the ZAVMS, as it is carried out by the Inspectorate, while Akos only exercises professional supervision over the implementation of the provisions on radio and television programmes without the possibility of imposing criminal sanctions and inspection measures. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture, in particular with a view to increasing the speed and efficiency of the control procedures for radio and television programmes, proposed in the new Media Law a solution whereby the management of inspection of the implementation of the legal provisions on radio and television programmes is transmitted to one authority — Akos. This follows the ZAVMS solution because the inspection is already fully carried out by Akos; as well as the European directive providing for the regulation of television programmes to be carried out by an independent national regulatory programme, which Akos is certainly an independent public agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u277	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u278	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive report. Let me explain to people who don't fully understand why I'm asking. This issue is extremely important, because our creators are losing their jobs because of non-compliance with the legislation. The whole series of musicians, players, producers, directors, while TVs often count as Slovenian production quotas also information program, reality show, fortune tellers and so on. Due to two or more years of delays in the control of Akos, we still have no data for 2012 and 2013 and not for 2014 in part. That's why I'm really interested: When will serious control of the prescribed shares laid down in our current legislation begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u279	Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you very much again for your word. In view of this response that I have given you, it certainly appears for 2014 that this control was serious for once. It is true, however, that it takes place one year ago to capture the entire year. For 2012 and 2013, I really don't have this moment of data on how this control worked. But it's a real obstacle to having two organs. I hope that this amendment of the law – and I hope that as soon as possible in the National Assembly – will make this control really more effective; even so that the process will be carried out by one supervisory authority from the beginning to the end. If there were shortcomings in 2014, I do not currently have this information and I cannot confirm it; if they were, of course, this improvement will be welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u281	Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor to question the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister of Culture of Mags. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, chairman. My question is basically brief, but then I'll explain it a little bit. What about the fate of the Factory Bank art collection? Explanation – Mr Fabio Škopac, the first director of the Bank, decided not to finance sport as the majority of the remaining bankers at the time, but to buy current works of art. The curator of this, if I may put it this way, was Dr. Tomaž Brace. Throughout the history of Factor Bank until the moment we said that we would control it out, if I put it that way, a number of these parts have accumulated; almost 300 of them are almost 90 of the treasures of Slovenian art, sculptor's modern production. By the way, if there were a dozen of us here with experts, secretary general and colleague Milan, in the lobby of our balcony, we'd see a very beautiful painting called Materada in 1997 by Emerik Bernard. When we had almost a year ago a meeting of the Committee on Culture in Maribor, this question also raised what would now be the fate of this important treasure, if I put it that way. There were even a few concerns at the time; of course, the Modern Gallery had shown some appetites to go into their foundation, to also play a little decentralised in this respect and to go to the Maribor Art Gallery at least part of this foundation. In the best sense that this is happening, I didn't even check and ask. Recently, I find out first through personal channels, then also in the media, that we somehow decided to sell what we sold for a million euros or whatever. I therefore ask both ministries dealing with the rehabilitation of the banking system and with culture: What about the fate of the Factory Bank art collection? I could now list quite a few countries that have had such and different financial crises, but in fact I cannot find any serious country that would sell its artistic treasures in such a way that it obviously thinks to do so now Slovenia. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u283	Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Dr. Franz Runk! In particular, in connection with the consequences of the deep economic crisis, more works and collections have emerged on the market in recent years, which can be considered among the more interesting cultural heritage aspects. Many of the works that we can track during the economic transition in the country to its national institutions that provide for artistic heritage in the framework of the public service were unattainable because their private capital investment prices in private collections reached unattainable amounts. At the time of the economic transition, the budget allocated to the purchases of the artistic heritage was not set at a satisfactory level. In 2009, we had some more than 700 000 euros to buy back, and in 2013 we had only 191 thousand 470 euros, while now we are slightly increasing this amount in 2014 and 2015. I think that in 2015 there will be around EUR 250 000, which means that we cannot practically cut through these parts. However, as we are aware that, in this period, because of the market situation already described, it is also possible to detect a huge amount of works of art, which were also part of the assets of certain failed companies, for which the purchase by the State, due to a drastic lack of cultural resources, which have been severely reduced in the last six years, is not possible, we have at the beginning of my term approached the use of all the legal options available to us to protect this property of national importance. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, we have appointed expert committees composed of industry experts who have reviewed the situation on the market and have consequently empowered competent public institutions, which have been able to carry out precise checks and descriptions of the property of artistic and archival value in individual companies, either in the course of termination or in the course of the sale process. In the case of the bank referred to in your question, such a review has been carried out and, consequently, the declaration of the collection with all parts of national importance. Consequently, this means that such a collection can only be sold in its entirety, not unsupervised in individual parts, and that such a collection cannot be removed from the country. This is, at the moment, without any additional funds spent, all that we have been able to do at the Ministry of Culture. At the moment, the fate of the Bank is clear to the extent that the collection can only be sold in full because of its integrity and will not leave the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, there are 85 key works, very important, historically important works that the Ministry would like to transfer to the National Fund. In this regard, we have also referred to the Ministry of Finance, and Minister Marble will tell us how they see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u285	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Dr. Franz Runk! Factor bank is a separate legal entity until it's liquidated. This means that it alone has its own assets and does not change the fact that the State is its sole shareholder in this liquidation process. Shareholders do not have the opportunity to form the will of the company to which they are shareholders, nor can they decide on its assets. The will of society is formed by its administration. So the question is, what's going to happen to the Factor Bank collection, the question for her administration. The company’s assets will indeed be distributed among shareholders upon liquidation, but all the creditors of the company must be paid in advance. If the management had transferred the collection before the company’s liquidation free of charge to the Republic of Slovenia, as we discussed, it could have harmed the creditors. Such an action would not only be contrary to the rules governing the operation of companies, it would also be challenging. Finally, let me stress that the art collection, as has already been said, is an important art collection, which has been identified by the Ministry of Culture and protected it; this means that the sale of the collection will not result in its termination, only the owner will change. Even so far he owned a private owner, that was the Factor Bank.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u287	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. I'd be lying if I didn't say I expected an answer. But it's not that simple if I say a little plastic. I set two million on the flight, buy this collection, take it to the basement and see it there, as the president of the Croatian Chamber of Economics has examined some collections. I'm not gonna have a bear stuffed in there. If we are serious, the last few weeks are very much about cultural threats, Islamisation, up and down; it seems to me that it is a matter of great importance that only a shareholder can have a little influence. As a Member, I also have the opportunity to address the question as long as it is state property, to the Factor Bank, what they will do with it; but somehow from the answers of the Minister and the Minister, I am saddened that we are here to talk about some, I cannot say anything else, legal formalism, but we are not talking so much about the content. Austria has also had a similar experience with the Hypo Bank, I'm just saying, I can ask around. I don't know if they have a collection, but if they had 15 Klimts, some parts of Kokoschke, and maybe some videos taken from Nietzsche, believe that Austria would, at the office of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Culture, mediate that this collection remains the property of an Austrian state and is also presented to various generations, populations. Therefore, I am asking for a reply to be completed: What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u289	First of all, Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u290	I can say that at the Ministry of Culture, we are extremely concerned about the public accessibility of the collection. It's about 85 important parts. The collection also includes the following authors such as Metka Kraševec, Herman Guardjančič, Zdenka Žido, Luj Vodopivec, Tugo Šušnik, Zivko Marušič and so on. The Ministry of Culture wants to realize its intention and we will continue to work as hard as we can, because the bidding takes place by 13 November, if there is any possibility of acquiring this collection into permanent ownership of the Republic of Slovenia and putting it into an appropriate national institution, that is to say the Modern Gallery. Here we'll also ask the government what's wrong with it. It is then a purchase of this part of the collection, for 85 parts of 289; in order to reach at least this part, which is the core of national wealth. We're looking for ways in the ministry; if that's possible or not, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u291	Minister of Finance, would you like to? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Franz Trcek, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u292	Of course, I demand a debate on this subject. I can say that I listened attentively to the Minister, and she also somehow denied herself. First, we talked about the collection being sold as a whole, and then she said she was looking for the possibility of the country buying back these 85 key works. A little joke, if it's possible to see a tycoon with a million — please buy this. This is not such a rare practice abroad that someone who has become rich thus gives it to those who have made it possible for him to be rich; even what kind of museum is built. Before this debate takes place, I will be very honest about this, it is the father of one of the SMC's Members. Let the SMCs teach your colleague a lesson. I hope that, when we vote in favour of this decision, you will support this decision. Because if we behave this way about culture, if we act this way about Slovenia, soon we will have only the shade on the one hand and on the other hand we will become the owners – what? Passengers. Let the public debate on this take place. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u293	Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark, who is excused absent, and to the Minister of Finance Dr Dušan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, chairman. Over the past 15 years, the problem of poverty has never been as bitter as it is today. The poverty risk rate reached 14,5 % in 2013, up from 2005 onwards, since this data has been collected under the single Eurostat methodology. This rate of poverty did not decrease last year either. Under the poverty threshold there were 290,000 of our population, according to citizens and citizens of Slovenia; and 52 thousand more than that in 2005. I think we can all agree that they are unacceptable and huge numbers. However, some categories of people are particularly at risk. At the risk of poverty in the category over 55 years of age, Slovenia is above the European average. Single-parent families, especially single-parent families, are particularly at risk of poverty, where the risk of poverty is twice as high as the general one, and especially the catastrophic situation of women over the age of 65 who live alone, where the risk of poverty is three times higher than the general one and is 42.1%. A direct action against poverty is to increase the amount of social assistance. In 2009, the Ministry of Labour only produced an estimate of the minimum cost of living and, on the basis of this assessment, found that temporary social assistance should amount to EUR 385 and EUR 562 per annum. This year, the minimum income will return to EUR 288, as it was before the introduction of the notorious Public Finance Balance Act. But this means that we are still 100 euros shorter than the goal set by the Ministry six years ago. So I am interested in the answers to two questions: How much more could an additional amount of minimum income be raised if €16 million were used to do so, as much as would be obtained by maintaining the fourth income class, according to your ministry? How much would it take to raise the minimum income from €288 to €385? By the way, let me add here to the context that the real estate burdens should be eliminated. People today prefer to live a lot more than to ask for a protective allowance because they fear that their country or their descendants will then sit on their property. However, this provision is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty and I am waiting for the government to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u295	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you very much. This issue is more focused on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs than on the Ministry of Finance. I'll try, however, because the Minister isn't here to give a comprehensive answer. There are two questions that I can answer directly. Firstly, for the additional burden of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 16 million, the basic amount of the minimum income could be raised to EUR 308 after the overall assessment of the IMF. Further thorough analyses are needed for a more accurate assessment. The second question was how much it would take to raise the amount of minimum income to EUR 385.08. The estimate is around €60 million, additional thorough analysis is needed for a more accurate assessment. However, I would like to say that neither the measure nor the other measure would not be an appropriate measure for 2016 and continue for 2017. For 2016, approximately 200 million more public budget expenditure is foreseen for the purposes of reducing the risk of poverty, while these two measures would be minimal. On the other hand, in line with the National Reform Programme, which we have adopted and also sent to the European Union, we need to ensure a better business environment in which we will create more so that we can also reduce the risk of poverty. It's the only way you can reduce it. And we have virtually no budgetary measures that have a direct impact on the level of budgetary expenditure to support the economy. This 16 million is the only such measure, when we have committed 200 million to reducing the risk of poverty. These 16 million address the issue of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy where we are least competitive, and this is in the case of relatively most productive, good, smart, educated employees. And the abolition of this is a drop into the sea compared to what we set out in the draft social budget. The second key is that, in accordance with the Social Security Benefits Act, the recipient of financial social assistance and a social security allowance cannot be in a more favourable position than the one provided by work or on the basis of work rights. By raising the basic amount to 308 more, of course, to EUR 385, it would break the ratio to the minimum wage, which would mean that the recipients of the financial social assistance and the security allowance would be in a more favourable position than those who provide themselves with the means of subsistence by work or on the basis of the rights of work. It should also be noted that the minimum income, which is the basis for monetary social assistance, must be based on minimum needs or minimum cost of living and must meet two important requirements: it must meet basic needs and must not cause loss of motivation to work. The minimum cost of living shall be determined on the basis of the Social Security Benefits Act on the basis of a comparable methodology at least every five years. The basic amount of the minimum income of EUR 385 mentioned was found on the basis of a survey on the minimum cost of living produced by Dr. Nada Strotnik with colleagues from the Institute of Economic Research in June 2009 on data from 2009. This was practically the first year we reached our peak. This is the beginning of the crisis, just before the crisis. With regard to social security, let me give you some examples of what we have done for these 200 million: extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, partial removal of child allowances restrictions, the basic amount of minimum income will be increased and consequently these benefits will be eliminated. In the area of state grants, the restrictions on the beneficiaries of the fifth income class are partially released. As a novelty, the implementation of scholarships for deficient professions is also being launched. That would be my answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u297	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u298	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The abolition of the fourth income class is not support for the economy, but support is the richest loss of people in this society, very often it is privileged layers, managers and so on. By no means does the abolition of the fourth grade automatically mean support for the economy. It's pure myth and pure propaganda. In addition, propaganda is that Slovenia has not had a competitive economy for quite some time. We are running a surplus in the current balance of payments account, which means that our economy has already won a competitive competition compared to a number of others, at least at the moment. However, if we want to maintain or improve such a structural position, this means qualitative leaps in the structure of the economy, in the global division of labour for the territory of Slovenia; and not in the additional tax burden that can shift to a qualitative leap in funding. As far as your answer is concerned, I would like to point out that I realize that such a calculation is not an easy thing that cannot be linear, but I would still like an additional explanation. First of all, I want to know: How many new receipts would there be at the expense of increased censorship? You just mentioned the number that 60 million euros should be needed if we were to raise monetary social assistance, temporary social assistance to a person worth living, at least at some minimum level. And if this raise is a problem in relation to the minimum wage, then the problem with the minimum wage. So just raise the minimum wage instead of giving her a hard time. As for the argument that people with decent social assistance are losing their motivation for work, I can only say that I am speechless, I am becoming dismayed. If people need to be brought to poverty in order to be motivated to work, it means that the problem is at their place of work, not at their side of their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u299	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u300	I almost didn't notice an additional question because I answered both questions – 16 million to 308 euros and 60 million. These two assessments are rough and should be made accurately by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities where they have accurate data. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, it is difficult for me to give a more in-depth analysis. The second thing I would like to mention, however, is that it is not the only factually comparable information on how the work is taxed in Slovenia. It is information that tells us that we have about the average wage in Slovenia – the tax screw that the European Union has. The more we go from the average up, the bigger this tax screw. If we want to have and retain in Slovenia those who have the most knowledge that can contribute most to productivity in companies and therefore enable the largest increase in wages, after all, because of the more added value, these have the largest tax screw. That's why our experts are leaving, the whole company is leaving, and we don't get any experts from abroad. If we want to have an even lower risk of poverty in the long term, we already have an average, and if we want to have higher wages and pensions without a burden in this area where we are uncompetitive, we will not be able to achieve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u301	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u302	That is the case; I would certainly like a discussion on the answer, because, to a large extent, Mr Minister, in particular in the context with which he answered my question, he really avoided the direct question. He continued with some neoliberal propaganda; he was not in any way willing to enter into a productive dialogue on how to address the social issue in us through the tax mechanisms, through the redistributive mechanisms available to the country. The Minister made the amounts he had made as if it were something completely impossible; in fact, in the United Left we can immediately list two measures which can direct the social distress of Slovenian people and increase the budget revenues by 100 million euros. For starters, if we lower the fourth income class to EUR 4000 400 gross monthly salary, we increase the revenue by 30 million. And if we return the corporate tax rate from 17% to 20%, we can count on additional revenues of 75 million euros. These are the first grades, the first numbers; but it's the rank of the size that we operate on, it says. This would cover social expenditure and social expenditure. As for the indications that our progressive taxation of wages penalises the most good, the most creative, creative sectors of this society – that is not true. These are the taxation of the management strategy, the management class; not the experts. Please show me the engineer, or I'd like to see a horde of highly trained engineers driven away by the fourth grade. I don't know if you're going to find anything to do with such engineers in our society who would fall into the fourth grade. Why not? Because precisely these people, who fall into the fourth income class, such as managers, do not pay them as much as they would deserve; and they do not pay them as their productivity does. And this abolition of the fourth grade will in no way save and will in no way address it. We are once again faced with naked propaganda for the benefit of capital and for the harm of working people. And there is something else about tax revenues in Slovenia and their structures; our tax revenues are extremely regressive compared to the European Union. Many more tax revenues in the European Union are created through progressive and not through regressive tax mechanisms. There is a need to tighten the income scale up and the value added tax should be reduced if I simply express myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-19-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u303	Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 21 October 2015, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
