ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Marusha Škopac, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Andrej Cuz, Mr Franc Laj, Dr Dragan Matić, Mr Branislav Rajić and Mr Branko Zorman. I welcome everyone here. We continue with item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the uncontrolled situation at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia and the requirements for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter. In accordance with yesterday's decision that the President of the Republic of Slovenia shall within 24 hours deliver an opinion on the current immigration problem in the Republic of Slovenia, with regard to the protection of the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, the security of nationals and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the ability of the Republic of Slovenia to protect the state border, the necessity of international assistance and the state capacity to provide for immigrants, Mr Borut Pahor, pursuant to Article 107(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, addressed today to the National Assembly an opinion which I forwarded to all Members and Members of the Parliament, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 223 of the Rules of Procedure. I invite the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, to address the National Assembly and further explain his opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the State, first, but very frankly, I thank all those who in various ways care for humane assistance to refugees and migrants and care for the maintenance of order and security. Their conduct is thoughtful and loving. They put human dignity at the forefront, and they are important in helping to preserve the human face of Slovenian society and the country during this difficult time. This invigorates within us justifiable feelings of pride and in our society strengthens noble human returnees. This is of great importance to national character and to development in similar historical moments. Dear Mr. President, the High House! Together with you, I am aware of the specificities and dimensions of the situation. I fully understand our shared responsibility. I estimate that Slovenian policy has been called upon to form a common agreement on action. For the purposes of the present opinion and today's performance, I will appoint this agreement as the National Plan for the Transitional Resolution of the Refugee and Migration Crisis. It must come together with common strength and must be given the widest possible political support. Please accept this opinion as a contribution to this very difficult task. We need a plan in the absence of a more comprehensive and non-responsible common European policy. Slovenia will, of course, make an earnest and sincere effort to design and implement it as soon as possible. During the transitional period, it is incumbent on it to take all necessary measures, firstly, to treat refugees and migrants humanely and secondly, in order to take all measures to ensure the order and security of the country. This is our political, legal and moral duty. Mr. President! The need for a national plan requires a reasonable expectation that the refugee or migration crisis will not be affected. Even if it could be slightly reduced in the coming days or weeks, especially in winter, it is possible to expect it to continue. The current measures taken by the authorities are largely of a very temporary nature and will not be sustainable for a longer period of time. The central objective of the transitional action plan is to re-establish the normal order at the borders of the country. This order should be gradually and proportionately established by the competent national authorities within a reasonable time. This is ultimately the duty and right of Slovenia as a sovereign state. It is important for Slovenia to establish an indicative upper limit for the number of refugees and migrants that it can place and care for more permanently. The task is, I realize that, ingratitude, but it is inevitable. The estimated number of refugees and migrants that our country and society would be able to provide more lastingly and humanely for them is a crucial factor in taking so-called stepping-up measures with regard to control at state borders, and you ask me in your question. In determining the indicative maximum number of refugees and migrants, the difference between asylum seekers and migrants should also be taken into account. In particular, the latter may face opposition in permanent installation, as they will remain against their expectations and also against their will in Slovenia. Regardless of the differences in their formal status, we must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that we owe them the responsibility to help them as people in their severe lifespan and trials. In my opinion, the main guide of our country's transitional migration policy should be that the daily number of all refugees and migrants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia should not go beyond this indicative maximum number of refugees and migrants that we are prepared and able to provide for a longer period. When preparing such a plan, it is said, some deliberate and thoughtful guide for our actions in the coming weeks and months, we need to pay special attention to the possibilities of substantially tighter supervision at the Slovenian-Austrian border. From the beginning of the crisis, both at the time of the first wave and now at the time of the second wave, the accuracy of our northern border is crucial to our actions. If Slovenia rightly concludes that the flow of the refugee and migration wave at the Slovenian-Austrian border may be significantly lower, it must immediately proportionally increase control at the Slovenian-Croatian border, which is also the Schengen border of the European Union. Otherwise, there would be a significant number of refugees and migrants in Slovenia, more than our country can provide for and care for humanely. Any hesitation would be irresponsible under such circumstances. None of them would have anything – not Europe, not our country, not refugees and migrants, not our people, to whom we are responsible. Slovenia could become a so-called pocket in which a substantial number of refugees, migrants who could not help them because of our smallness and other characteristics as they deserve. In such a case, for the first time, the ability of our authorities to act humanly, secondly, to increase the likelihood of discontent among migrants and refugees, and thirdly, the concern of our population is probably too high for some normal control of the situation. This, however, would be the nature of the crisis, which, in my view, in particular of humanitarian nature, would have turned into a security crisis, which I do not think is yet. And if we act decisively, prudently, of course, decisively, this will not happen in the future. We've been given the responsibility not to do so. Mr President, in this respect, we must be aware that in order to act effectively in this situation, it is necessary to allocate more financial resources to the functioning of the Slovenian police, the military and civil protection. I know that it is always difficult for the President of the Government and his cabinet when others who do not have these responsibilities outside the State are bidding on the amount of these funds. I understand that, but I'm in an exceptional position today when I have to do this. As commander-in-chief of the defence forces, I have been forced for two years in a row to assess that the Slovenian Army is at the lowest level of readiness due to lack of funding. We should not expect very much from the Slovenian police and the military and Civil Protection, but we should give very little. In the current circumstances, therefore, I would like to call on you exceptionally to increase the financial support of the two main security pillars of the country. An important part of the so-called national plan must also be the creative cooperation of the state authorities with local communities. The plan should provide for all necessary forms of cooperation so that trust between the two levels of authority will be deepened and strengthened. Only in this case and in the absence of public awareness of all relevant information can we expect the necessary sympathy of the population with refugees and migrants and their support, understanding and confidence in our conduct. In order to take a transitional step towards the adoption and implementation of the Common European Migration Policy, it is very important to cooperate sincerely, closely and successfully, in particular with neighbouring countries, the participating countries of the so-called mini summit of the European Union on the refugee crisis, the institutions of the European Union and, of course, the organisation of the United Nations. Given the current circumstances and the importance of our northern and southern borders for the transitional resolution of the refugee and migration crisis, it is of particular importance that all-round cooperation with the neighbouring countries of Austria and Croatia. We must strive to strengthen mutual trust, especially with Croatia, if and when Slovenia can decide to step up measures to control the southern border as the Schengen border, if and when this is necessary. The High House, including our country's transitional action in the refugee and migration crisis, must reflect our country's strategic ambition to keep Slovenia after this crisis in the most related part of the European Union. Any major measure we plan, adopt and implement must also reflect on this important criterion. At no cost, the border of the most connected part of the European Union must not move from our southern border to Karavanke; it is a national interest of a strategic nature. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, President of the Government, Minister and Ministers! Today we are discussing the urgency of Slovenia's national transitional action plan also due to the absence and non-response of the common European policy to the current refugee and migration crisis. It is in our immediate interest to actively pursue its early design and implementation. I take this opportunity to emphasise that the political, economic and social deepening of this link – the European Union – and its enlargement are in our most vital interest. That is why Slovenia, both in terms of the current crisis and all other important issues for the present and future of the European Union, must strive to strengthen the European Union, not to weaken in any way because of this crisis or others. This cannot be good for Slovenia in any way. In my opinion, the European Union has three main tasks in relation to the refugee and migration crisis: Firstly, to form a set of immediate and long-term measures to effectively and solidarityally relieve the burden of the current crisis and to better prepare for its possible outbreak. Secondly, I think I add this to what you have received as a written opinion that it is important whether it can and can exercise control at the external borders of the European Union, in this case and in particular at the borders of Greece. Thirdly, to engage more actively in the search for political solutions to open conflict issues in the Middle East and in North Africa. I believe that Slovenia is acceptable to such a common European foreign and security policy on these and similar issues, which puts at the heart of the peaceful settlement of disputes and, as a rule, the need for the mandate of the United Nations for the possible military intervention of the international community, should such an assessment be adopted that otherwise lasting peace cannot be protected. Slovenia supports and will continue to do so, all initiatives to create the single political objectives of the international community for intervention in crisis areas of the world. To what it is written, I add: From our own experience from a quarter of a century ago, we know how fatal it can be for the international public to have a fragmented, even conflict or military situation in a region. This neighbourhood paid a high price precisely because of the long absence of uniform political objectives and, in fact, there was a peaceful solution only after an agreement had been reached on common uniform political objectives for intervention for peace and security. In the framework of the various informal and formal multilateral initiatives and the European Union and the Alliance, Slovenia then seeks to better understand and successfully address the very difficult and complex problems in the Western Balkans. Slovenia understands the increased sensitivity due to the refugee and migration crisis. I take this opportunity to address some of the expectations of the international public, as one of the initiators and leaders of the informal process of Brdo, to call for an extraordinary conference on refugee issues. Let me first explain that in early September we, together with the Croatian President and colleague, Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, have already sent an invitation to US Vice-President Joseph Biden to attend the near summit on security issues to be held in Croatia. In this context, the new informal summit of leaders is being prepared in a short time; although it is not intended and we have not decided in particular and in particular because of the refugee crisis, it is clear that we cannot or must not avoid this issue. It is important for Slovenia that the European Union, the international community as a whole, understands that Slovenia is very sensitive to whether or not it is placed in the Western Balkans. Slovenia has a type of identity – Mediterranean, Central European, is an EU Member State and NATO, a member of the Euro Zone – and therefore a country in the most related part of the European Union. We can be so much more active in the Western Balkans as it will be clear to all who expect our responsible conduct in this part of South-Eastern Europe that we do not belong geopolitically there. As far as dealing with the refugee problem is concerned, you can already see this, Slovenia is so committed, and we also expect that if the so-called Balkan Route of Refugees and Migrants is and will be addressed, it is not acceptable for Slovenia to meet only countries from our country down to Greece. For real and symbolic reasons, Austria and Germany must also be present. Slovenia is a member of the EU, is a member of NATO and must be placed in an environment of political and security character for all possible new classifications in a symbolic and real sense. Slovenia, and this is the answer to these questions about Slovenia's involvement in the Western Balkans, Slovenia will therefore, as in all other initiatives, in its work in the EU, the international community, honestly, openly – because of knowledge of culture, people's experience – strive for reconciliation, peace, co-existence, resolution of open issues between the countries of the former Yugoslavia as far as it is clear to all that it is doing so as an active EU Member State and NATO, and not because it is one way or another in the geopolitical area of the Western Balkans. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen! The current problem of the refugee and migration crisis also needs to be discussed critically and democratically. The sensitivity of the subject – and we must acknowledge that it is certainly very sensitive; we are not talking about things, we are talking about people, we are not talking about people who want us to do something bad, but we are talking about people who are in severe situations in life – the sensitivity of the debate about them, our treatment of them cannot be a reason for us to take a different view of each other. We all need to be very careful to avoid attitudes, sentences, statements that anyone could take as impatient and insulting views. None of us are immune to hate speech. However, we are obliged, even because of the positions we are in, not least, to represent all our people, to do our utmost to avoid, to the extent possible, or to apologize for, failing to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that for the last time in Slovenia and the EU, despite the extreme complexity of this topic, we will, in the face of sincere attempts, deliberate attempts, prudent attempts, however, form the necessary consensus for a successful action. It seems that this crisis and our response to it may have a strong impact on the character of our present and future society, and this is more than expected at first. Whenever societies face such challenges, which are very difficult, which are controversial, which do not allow black and white thinking, these are always very complex questions, which, if we do so, can be solved in a way that, once behind us, we will look at our actions with one sense of pride. For future generations, it is also a source of inspiration. We have found ourselves, and I conclude with this, Mr President, in a position where, due to the humane treatment of refugees and migrants and to ensuring order and security, we are in a position to take reasonable, prudent and decisive action relatively quickly. None of us know and no one can know how the current refugee and migrant crisis will develop in the future. But we owe it to you, and I call on you as President of the Republic and one of us, and we owe it to you to put our heads on the line. We've had enough experience. We have enough knowledge. We have enough prudence. We have sufficient determination and enough heart to, not least because of our differing views, form a common national and later European policy so that, as I said before, we will be proud of our actions later and will be a source of inspiration for future generations and for future challenges. Thank you very much for your attention, and I wish you all the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u3	I thank the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, for his words and for honouring us with his presence. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims for further explanation of the proposal for a recommendation. Procedurally, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. The topic ahead of us today is sensitive, as the President of the Republic has already said. It has also been the subject of many debates already in this national assembly, and the horror of these debates that we are witnessing has recently increased. Last but not least, it was evidence of Monday's meeting, where there was an almost unacceptable discussion, mainly by the proponents as well as by others. Because this is a sensitive topic, I think it is also a very important topic, and in the current situation in particular, I ask you today to follow the debate in particular carefully and, in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, also prevent any use of hate speech, xenophobics and racist statements and possible deceptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u5	He's got a word, like I said before, mag. Branko Grims for further explanation of the proposal for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Two things are already at stake. One is the rule of law, it's practically broken, and the other is freedom of speech. Nothing threatens people's well-being and their freedom and security at this point, rather than the actual hate speech of those left-wings who want to limit freedom of speech and prevent people from getting comprehensive and honest information. Restricting freedom of speech is a clear violation of the Constitution and of the Fundamental Declaration on Human Rights of the United Nations, which applies to everyone and everyone. Slovenia has ratified it. No policy in Europe or theoretically has a mandate to permit systematic breaches of international treaties and laws and thus expose citizens and citizens of danger and economic crisis, all of which entail the illegal release of 100,000 migrants to Europe in violation of the rules of the Schengen and other European Union and Member States' legal rules, including Slovenia. No country, not even Slovenia, nor any community, nor the European Union, has any, nor has, in theory, any right to endanger its inhabitants, or, on behalf of some high ideals, a situation in which the fundamental values of the community and, in the extreme case, even the personal integrity and existence of an individual are endangered. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a real problem we are facing. Anyone who says he's surprised at what's happened in the last few months is, of course, being distracted. Everything was warned in time, everything was announced, just didn't want to hear it. And because of the inaction, because of the lack of respect for the rule of law, because of the desire to please, God knows to whom, what should have been done did not happen. And today the consequences are here and now. The consequences are double. One is the security crisis, the security crisis that comes at a risk when you put into your territory in contravention of the applicable rules of ten and ten thousand strangers who have either no documents or fake documents and are therefore illegal immigrants throughout the international classification, and you do it from day to day. If someone made one of these cases three years ago to illegally let someone across the border without documents, escort him to Austria, leave him there, they'll lock him up. It's called crime, smuggling people. Today this is happening in tens of thousands. That's why we're talking about a legal problem. This is not only Slovenia's problem, it is the whole European Union's problem because it started and allows it to do so. But the Slovenian problem is in the part where it concerns us when we allow it ourselves. I express deep disagreement with such conduct. There would be no problem at all if the European Union and Slovenia consistently applied their own rules and regulations without exception and with all democratic means, which, by the way, the country is obliged to do. However, those with executive power are personally, politically, and also criminally responsible. This would be worth warning not only here, but it would also be worth warning in Brussels, because it seems to me that things in the right dimensions can no longer be presented normally. What exactly is a country? The State is an organised community of taxpayers to provide prosperity, security and defence of the fundamental values of the community. The countries here have cancelled in their basic definition, including Slovenia. But they didn't give up on themselves, they canceled because those who run the country take a mandate not to respect their own legal order. I therefore repeat what is a fundamental problem at this point in the European Union. Neither policy nor theoretically does it have a mandate to permit systematic breaches of international treaties and laws, thereby exposing citizens and citizens to danger and economic crisis, as it all entails the illegal release of 100,000 migrants to Europe and to Slovenia, contrary to the rules of the Schengen and other legal rules of the European Union and the Member States. If we know that some industries are already clinically dead, for example, tourism – which is how the fires in the migrant centres at our border were reflected in the Western media and what the consequences were; the cancellations of those arrangements that were present – then it is clear that the economic consequence of this behaviour is already here. That's practically not what you're talking about. Every day, when illegal entry into Slovenia and illegal transport of migrants into a neighbouring country takes place, it costs about a million euros to be assessed in public. The actual damage, the potential damage, and the economic damage is difficult to detect and is quantifiable, but huge. It should be borne in mind that not everyone feels the same way, because at this point Slovenia is exposed, and that is why many European countries do not see this as a problem at all. As in this National Assembly just a month ago and a few days ago, we were talking about how well we were doing on the first migration of migrants through Slovenia. Everything was great. I gave a good warning at the time, yes, but we should have a monument to Mr Orbán because he did not respect his rule of law and closed the borders, and then Slovenia was in a good position, and now it is no longer. Now she's in exactly the position she shouldn't be in. And this situation will continue. Today you have been able to follow up on reports from some European Union institutions that have spoken peacefully about the assumption that an average daily crossing of the illegal border of the European Union will be carried out by 5,000 migrants, and that this is forecasted for the whole winter and that this number will probably be even higher in the spring. This was published a little earlier. In addition to this, Director Frontex, who had a public appearance yesterday, warned that 800,000 illegal migrants are already within the borders of the European Union and that this represents an extremely serious security and economic problem. And every other number just increases it. For this reason, of course, Slovenia is obliged to do everything in its power to protect the safety and well-being of the people and the fundamental values on which our country stands. With full respect, ladies and gentlemen, for the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia and for all international treaties, which we are primarily responsible for politically, for those who exercise them in certain executive branches of power, as well as for criminal matters. We must do so and therefore we have made the following recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: to use all available legal, technical, human and international options and measures to secure the border, security people and their property and to establish consistent controls on entry and exit from the country, to immediately propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend all necessary laws and acts to immediately establish conditions for the full engagement of domestic and international resources, so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its President will ensure responsibility and that the President of the Government removes all those responsible who have failed to ensure timely changes in the laws and the engagement of regular and reserve security forces and their appropriate equipment and skills, and we have listed three: mag. Ms Vesno Györkös Žnidar, Minister of Defence Andrejo Katič and Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Erjavac. We have proposed a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to implement consistently the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and without exception, which should be self-evident in the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. Infringement of the legal order is a crime, let us talk about real things once again! And, of course, we have proposed that cooperation and information on this issue be improved. The coalition is our proposals, you've probably all guessed, refused.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u7	In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Europe has been facing a migratory crisis that is far from at hand for several years, and it seems that each country is solving its own problems. Slovenia has started to face the migration crisis in recent months when the so-called Balkan migration route was formed. And the interpretations of how the Republic of Slovenia is prepared for the migration wave are, of course, different. In Nova Slovenije we estimate that in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has acted too slowly so that the relevant laws and acts should be prepared earlier. Somehow, we have also felt that the government is indecisive in its decision-making, sometimes without the right proposals and solutions to the situation. At times, it also seemed that there was a lack of consistency in taking positions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, however, given the seriousness of the situation, surely today is not the time for political debate. In fact, the migration crisis must not be a policy-gathering or political prestige. However, measures are needed, and with this very purpose in the New Slovenia Group, we have signed a call for today's meeting to work together to find solutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's meeting should therefore be an opportunity to discuss, above all, three aspects of the Republic of Slovenia's face-to-face with the crisis. First, the humanitarian aspect, that is, the human aspect where the Republic of Slovenia has already proved itself. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the State in protecting borders and for the third time, the security aspect. Security is one of the basic functions of the sovereign state, but it must also be effective in border control if it is to be sovereign. After all the information we have available, the migratory wave will soon be over. Long-term solutions to solve the problem at its source are out of the question. The key to the so-called current solution is Turkey and, in particular, Greece as a member of the Schengen area, and this is where key issues are emerging. Why does Greece, as a Schengen member, not act in accordance with the Schengen rules and not protect the borders? Because it is because Greece does not fulfil its commitments that problems arise and other members of the European Union are also in security. Therefore, honourable Prime Minister, I propose a serious discussion at European level on the proposal to exclude Greece from the Schengen area. Therefore, since Greece does not respect Schengen and does not protect its borders, it is entirely logical for borders to be protected by higher levels, i.e. by the following members of the Schengen area. Hungary had already reacted months ago and followed the rules, and as a result, the migrant wave set out on a new path across Slovenia. Slovenia has thus become a narrow belt or, rather, a bottle door for hundreds of thousands of people wishing in the northern countries of the European Union. In accordance with the Schengen rules, Slovenia must also begin to act and to protect the southern border. If Slovenia does not protect its southern border, the Schengen border will once again move higher between Slovenia and Austria, which we cannot afford. In this case we will agree on the so-called other side or even the unwanted side and Slovenia will become the so-called pocket for hundreds of thousands of migrants who will want to go to Austria and continue to Germany. Indicators that Germany and Austria will restrict the arrival of migrants in their territory are large and only a matter of days, perhaps weeks when this will happen. It is therefore necessary to adhere consistently to the rules and answers and to accept those who come from war zones and ask for international protection, i.e. refugees, and to act in accordance with the rules of economic migrants. The concept of free immigration cannot stand. It is therefore necessary for the Republic of Slovenia to start closing the border with Croatia in accordance with the Schengen rules, including with so-called technical obstacles, if you wish. In fact, Slovenia must adhere to the concept of a sovereign state, it must adhere to the concept of Schengen and the concept of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u9	The proposal for a recommendation is 2. 11. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mag. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President for your word. Honourable President, Ministers, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 26th session. 11. 2015 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the uncontrolled situation at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with Croatia and the request for an opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this issue by the National Assembly 22. Ten. 2015 was submitted for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. A further explanation, on behalf of the applicant, was given by Mr Vinko Gorenak. He pointed out that Slovenia had been faced with an extremely intense migratory wave in recent times, so that the Government should prepare and take appropriate measures, in particular to prepare amendments or additions to legislation, all with a view to ensuring the protection of the state border, the safety of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and the safety of migrants themselves and humanitarian aid. According to the proposaler, the Government is expected to take inequitable and insufficient measures and, in addition, an inefficient and time-consuming international action has also been taken by the Government, as it has not requested adequate international assistance within the EU on time. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their written opinion. She commented on points 3 and 4 of the proposal. With regard to point 3, she pointed out that it was part of a text identifying the responsibility of the three ministers and recommending the resignation of the President of the Government, which did not fall under the recommendation, since it was not a proposal for a measure for the work of the Government. With regard to the recommendation to the Prime Minister to propose the discharge of certain ministers, she pointed out that this was in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act under the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government. However, the National Assembly may exercise the political responsibility of ministers and the President of the Government through other institutions set up by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, such as the interpretation and non-trust of the Government. Furthermore, the Minister of the Interior presented the efforts and actions of the Ministry of the Interior and the police in dealing with the refugee problem, stressing that the system for managing the migration flow, both in the first and second waves, is working despite disproportionately high pressure, including the security system, with a very important conclusion that people trust the security forces. From the beginning they have pointed out that it will be extremely difficult to face more than 5,000 migrants a day in Slovenia. It has been shown that these pressures of non-human efforts at political and operational level have been mastered and have completely rejected the proposaler's claim to face chaos in Slovenia, as the situation is being controlled, which the Government will also seek in the future, so that the functioning of the country will be smooth and our citizens and migrants will be provided with security. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed that Slovenia has been prepared for the migration wave and that we have always warned about the possibility of opening the so-called Balkan route, but this problem cannot be solved by Slovenia alone, as this is a problem that must be solved by the EU, with the first breakthrough being the EU-Western Balkans Summit, where the first concrete measures have been taken. One of them is Frontex on the Greek-Macedonian border. He added, however, that it is always difficult to get help within the EU, which is a constant problem, because these are very complex mechanisms and that aid is now coming to Slovenia. The Minister of Defence also presented the Ministry of Defence's actions in the area of migration flows management. The Ministry has been involved in the preparation of a contingent plan, within which the activities of the Slovenian Protection and Rescue Board have been initiated, and has also presented the activities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which provides logistical support to the competent national authorities for the provision of migrants. Rules have also been laid down for the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces in supporting the police in the wider protection of the state border and in the protection of certain facilities and areas. In the debate, the coalition MPs expressed their conviction that the situation in Slovenia was under control. At no time were they chaotic, as the applicant argues. The opposition Members also offered all their full cooperation to the Government and the coalition in preparing appropriate crisis management measures. They pointed out, however, that the European Union does not have all the answers and solutions to the challenge that we will face in the future. The NSI Group tabled amendments to point 3 of the proposal for a recommendation and the SDS Group tabled amendments to point 4. None of the proposed amendments were adopted. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal separately and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the case on the home working body was closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u11	I give the floor to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! We are facing a crisis of major international dimensions. This is not just a European crisis, it is in some ways even a global crisis, a crisis which, of course, Slovenia is experiencing together with the whole of Europe. And let me immediately point out that Slovenia, as an EU member, as a responsible country on the European continent of this crisis, does not want to do so, nor can it solve itself. We are mainly saving it with the European Union and together with the countries in the region we are in contact with, this is said mainly with the Western Balkans region. Neither Italy nor Germany nor Austria or Sweden or other countries are in the midst of this crisis, but these are much larger countries with much greater capacity in all respects. Therefore, it is essential that the resolution of this migratory or refugee crisis in Slovenia is also aimed at this European or broader common dimension, because it is only in Slovenia that we will preserve all those values and safeguard our interests and at the same time demonstrate humanitarianism as we want. This extraordinary meeting was called for the purpose of discussing this crisis, with the proponents on the one hand stressing some recommendations to the Government in terms of what the Government should do, what it has not done, where it has been too slow, and the proponents argue that our community is at risk of being in a situation where security is very threatened, that it is actually a huge economic damage that is causing. In short, Slovenia appears in some dramatic light, which of course is not real. Slovenia, Government of Prek ministries, through all other sub-systems, via police, military, Civil Protection, firefighters, medical personnel, NGOs, volunteers, humanitarian organisations, local communities and also through some foreign countries we manage the matter. And we must stress that there will be no doubt – there is no security or other major crisis. Of course, great efforts have been made by these people and the institutions that I have mentioned, for which I thank them once again publicly and most sincerely, to manage this situation, to demonstrate what is our first task, to be humane, humanitarian in this situation, to be, at the same time, solidarity, to be, I think, a model of solidarity for other European countries, but also, above all, to take care of the security of our citizens, property, to care for order and peace. And I stress already, as I have pointed out several times in recent days: in line with developments and taking into account all the political and other factors that must be taken into account here – without them we cannot plan measures – we will also step up measures to manage these migrations, as well as measures at the Schengen border between Slovenia and Croatia, if necessary, including by tightening controls at this border. And that can also mean that we can also put obstacles at this border, including those we call fences, with appropriate police and other units that will further support this, if necessary, so that we can direct the refugee flows to certain points of entry where we can monitor these arrivals more effectively and in particular prevent illegal migrations or reject excessive migration flows to our country and beyond. I am sorry to see in this reference to an extraordinary session also some elements that indicate a desire to share, to the wish that these matters are now politically biased. I think it's better if we stay with the first one, looking for common solutions. I think that every day everyone I have mentioned – among these various volunteers and others, many of you, honourable Members and Members of the field, are also helping, and all other citizens – to continue doing so. Of course, it is the task of the Government, as I have said, that I said before days that it will do everything it takes to protect the Schengen border and thus both Slovenia and our citizens, as well as Europe, because if we protect this border effectively, then the European Union can keep within itself the free movement of goods, people and services, in short, without closing borders. That is why we have also achieved at the last Brussels summit held between some members of the European Union and some of the representatives of the countries from or near the so-called Balkan route, Slovenia has therefore achieved that we have made a number of commitments, political commitments, which represent great progress in solving this crisis, but of course only if they are respected. Commitments to greater cooperation, commitments to more effective protection of external European borders, and this is something that I personally have and that is what our government ministers are working for at each European meeting. We stress the need to protect the European Union and Europe at the external borders, in Greece and elsewhere, and finally our ship Triglav is carrying out an important mission at these external borders right now, and that is something we have been repeating for months and on which we are standing. That we are convincing, we have also proved that the European Union has started sending support to us on a bilateral basis in police units because they understand that our border is important because they respect our humanitarian and other efforts, our posture and are therefore willing to help us secure this border. If we behaved wrongly, wrongly, if we did not respect European commitments and values and at the wrong time, beyond the principle of proportionality, we would not be able to exercise excessive control at the border, even if we were violent, because we would devalue ourselves before Europe, we would not remain an exemplary member of the European Union. Of course, from here on out, as I said, we will step up measures in proportion to the situation. Let me say that we keep the public informed of the situation every day. You have also been Members of this House, and you have been regularly informed. We have had more than 9 meetings in this National Assembly, at which we informed you of all the activities of the Government and as you know, and I must repeat this because of our citizens and citizens, already a good half a year ago and we have started preparing for these migrations last year. In the winter we made plans and intensified them in the spring and then in the summer, when we started to implement them. Many warnings, including the opposition, including other organisations, institutions in the country that are well-meaning and respected, are largely a knock on the open door, which means that we have already taken them into account, so that we have already implemented, implemented or are ready to carry them out. Of course, according to the right moment. Of course, we are for working together to inform ourselves that we are looking for solutions together. But the government's job is to specifically specify these measures and implement them. Let me also say that we still have a special value for security. We are aware of what the President of the State has also pointed out, and his speech, his performance, today his opinion supports all that the Government is already doing and intends to do. So, the point is that we must not allow too many refugees or migrants to enter Slovenia, even if only temporarily, so many that we cannot provide them with humanitarian care or that this would actually cause security or other problems. So far, there have been no such problems, with the exception of certain individual escalations. However, I would ask that it be taken into account when the matter is being observed through the media or certain public exchanges of opinions that these people who come to Slovenia, refugees, migrants are exhausted, many have already made a long journey, many are hungry, overcrowded, and we know that we have not had good cooperation with the neighbouring country in recent months and have come to us in a very bad state. And before we provided them, they were sometimes even more in distress and this led to individual reactions from their side, but Slovenia considered this in the best possible way. But we will not allow people to be with us, especially now that winter is coming, in such numbers that we cannot provide them with dignity, dignity, human rights. And that is why it is also a responsibility, not only to ourselves, to our citizens and to the European Union, but also to all these migrants in distress, who are on this path, to enable them to have decent conditions when they are in our territory, to enable them to move forward, because they do not want to be here, otherwise they do not want to be, they become dissatisfied, even aggressive, so that, of course, we do not allow them to enter to such an extent as to cause us real disturbances and harm them themselves. Since it will be time for us to talk about certain topics, let me just repeat that the measures we are taking are timely, they are well thought out politically, logistically, professionally, they are prudent, we will step up, we will not let Slovenia get into some kind of chaos, a mess. We are concerned about the normal functioning of the country, but we must also think that Europe still has the opportunity to find a common solution, and we are part of this search and this solution that we need to find together. That is why every move we make must be considered, both from the European Union's point of view, of a wider Europe, including the region to which we are bordering and to which we are very, very sensitive, but above all we must have, and the Government has, in front of our citizens and citizens, and I assure you that we will also do so in the future, ensure security, the normal functioning of citizens and citizens, including economies and all other subsystems. Of course, we have to be realistic; this flow is great. This flow has surprised the whole world, it's not a normal situation. As I said, much bigger countries than us are in severe distress and we are in control of this and I assure you, and again I assure you that we will manage it in the future. So much for a start. Once again, great thanks to all those who make well - meaning suggestions, the advice you want and cooperate with all those who work hard. Especially thanks to all those who, every day in the field, also with great, extraordinary efforts, help people in distress and at the same time ensure that our country works, that our people are safe. That's it, again, for starters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u13	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who follow this session! The purpose of today's meeting is to draw attention to the proactive work on migration, which is the starting point for both Slovenia, Europe and the whole world. I must also point out that timely, correct and timely information is the one that will calm people and at the same time speed up the work in these areas. We estimate that there has not been a timely event, that the opposition and some individuals have warned the Government that the migration crisis will erupt, that things will get worse and that it is necessary to prepare themselves preventively, but not to act reactively. Just a few examples, if I may say so; the Croats have long warned us that the migrant crisis is coming to their southern border. We didn't answer that, but we threw up the blame on the Croats. If we had made a timely agreement with them, we could have made that platform and then the migrants would not have walked across the fields and into the water to come to Slovenia. We also had a number of statements by the Minister of the Interior of Croatia, the Minister of the Republic of Austria, that there is no real cooperation and negotiation. It was only after the summit that this cooperation took place. He could also give some examples of mayors of municipalities who warned that migrants were already coming, but the municipalities do not know anything about the envisaged measures. Thus, proactively, it has not been done enough and has not been done enough to inform the public, especially here in Parliament. We had the top of a coalition where everything was presented to us, but the Members, who were at the night sessions because we acted reactively, were not explained enough. Slovenia, as we see, must do the most at this time alone, only waiting for Europe is too small. If we saw the first wave over the Aphenins; all other countries did not act and left the subject to Italy. The same was true in Spain when they were the entry point; that was far from us, far from other countries, and we were not interested. Nor do countries deal with the Balkan route, as this concerns the Balkan countries, us, Austria and Germany. Here we need to start working in our area, while at the same time alerting Europe about what is happening and proposing solutions, not painting the matter in such a way that Europe will fall apart if it does not act. We need to start with so-called push and pull factors. These are factors that push people from countries of origin through transit countries to target countries. So these factors that attract people to these countries and this psychological moment why you go on this dangerous journey and what awaits them in these countries. NGOs, volunteers and everyone else, besides the police, the military and civil protection, will play a very important role in this. We rely heavily on this, but if the crisis is long-term, which is also forecast, it will be difficult to respond to these challenges. We see that there are new patterns of behaviour; this is a completely different form of migration than now, it is the demands of these people, not the requests, and it is a completely different way of acting. If Slovenia wants to create answers to a given situation, it needs to get to know in detail the reasons and everything that is going on in the wider community so that it can form answers. The main causes appear in the Arab spring, this is the political crisis mentioned by President Pahor. In addition to this political crisis, however, there is a very large economic crisis. If we see that economic migrants prevail among migrants and it is not yet clear what will happen to these economic migrants when they arrive in Europe, it is very important that we know why these economic migrations are taking place. If we look back just a little bit, the case of Haiti; when America started importing rice at dumped prices, rice production in Haiti fell, people had no jobs, and so they went across the sea to other countries where they were looking for business. That's exactly what's happening on the Arabian Peninsula right now. It happens that we have a whole bunch of unemployed people because of the influence of multinationals who took their jobs. Now, somehow, Gaddafi's curse is being carried out when he said before his death that systems such as those in this area, based on national socialism, control people in this area and ensure social security, which means that they remain in the country. When the Arab spring came, a wave hit Europe with these refugees, and things were only getting worse. It's some kind of hybrid threat that we've never been used to before. This is a threat both in the security, political, economic, cultural and other areas, and we must also respond to these threats. So, saying that we are not at risk, at this point we do not hold back, because we are at risk on several points. It is important to be aware that we will offer political asylum but also economic asylum in addition to political asylum. We are not prepared for this because most of these refugees are seeking economic asylum. What are we gonna do with these people? Do we have proactive measures where these people will be employed? If we monitor foreign media, we see a whole bunch of people disappear from their centers every day in Germany. Where are these people going? All of this is an army of informal economies, which, of course, corporations need for cheap labour. Corporations have moved production from less developed countries back to their home countries, and now they also need labour. How it will be regulated with regard to the labour force is not defined anywhere. It is said that pressure must go on the one hand both to the countries of origin, to the political and economic fields, as well as to the economic field in the target countries, what and how we will deal with the situation with these people. And if we mention the role of the media, which is very important in so-called hybrid threats, the media has to report on all activities in real terms, because that's how people get confidence in institutions. But most of all, it's wrong to try to organize the actual situation in the media. And in Slovenia, as well as in some other countries, the main problem is that we are more concerned with how we will present the painting through the piranhas in public, even though it is bad to improve it rather than actually show the situation and only the activity on the ground. So I appeal to the Government for greater information, for better information, and not for hiding behind some of the structures of reality and showing an unrealistic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In 2015, the year will be one of Europe's crucial years. In a cultural-civilisation, social, economic, security sense, the European continent faced the greatest challenge of the post-war period. Challenges that cannot be answered in a hypnotic and simple manner. A challenge that has set European democratic values and legal standards in front of the mirror. A challenge that can be successfully addressed only through close constructive cooperation within countries, between them and within the international community. All of this also applies to our country, which is at this point in time at the heart of the migrant flow of Europe. Slovenia has so far responded well to the situation in the country in the given circumstances and capacities, especially if we know how special our geostrategic position and smallness puts us in. By now, some 150,000 migrants or refugees have crossed the Slovenian territory. In the most burdened days of October, about 10,000 a day. For refugees or migrants who have emerged to this day in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, there are a thousand 95 police officers, 57 auxiliary police officers, 58 foreign police officers, 537 civil protection officers, volunteers and members of humanitarian organisations, 607 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, 64 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in support of protection and rescue, 52 uniformed public servants, 50 people through public works, numerous health personnel. For the purpose of facing or directing refugee or migrant governance, 12 accommodation centres, 10 reception centres, 11 thousand accommodation facilities have been established in the Republic of Slovenia at 24 different locations across the country. Many months before the arrival of the first major groups of migrants into our territory, the government has developed different models of different scenarios and measures, which, in view of the actual course of events, have also begun to take place. In the early summer, the Government established a special, firstly narrower, and then a wider coordination group, including local communities and representatives of non-governmental and humanitarian organisations. Furthermore, under the leadership of the Prime Minister himself, an operational working group meeting on a daily basis was formed. In order to address the issue, the President of the Government convened two meetings of the National Security Council. In the National Assembly, members of the Government have so far attended two extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, at twelve special sessions on refugee or migrant topics addressed to working bodies, and answered 17 questions raised by Members on these topics. The government also transmitted to the National Assembly, following an emergency procedure, two laws that directly touched on the face or management of migration or refugee issues. How and in a concrete way the competent ministries and services respond to their activities, my colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group will also discuss in detail their own experience with the details of the discussions today, as well as their own experiences from the accommodation centres, and of course the representatives of the Government would not be able to do so at this point. On behalf of the Group of Members, however, in the light of the central theme of today's meeting, we would also address the content or aspect of our country's cooperation with other countries. The Republic of Croatia was specifically mentioned in this reference. First of all, I would like to recall the fact that Slovenia is actively taking over its role in refugee or migrant content at international level. We regret the initial non-cooperation of the Republic of Croatia. In dealing with the influx of migrants, it has caused us many additional and unnecessary challenges, at least at the operational level, but it must be recalled that the relationship with our neighbour has been substantially improved before the time, at the initiative of our President of the Government, the European Union-Western Balkans Summit called an emergency mine. The conclusions of the summit have also contributed to significant progress and improved operational cooperation between countries along the so-called Western Balkan route. Furthermore, it is important to recall the continued active presence of the highest representatives of the Government at all times, in view of the uniform responses to the challenges, unfortunately not yet sufficiently convincing meetings of the Council of the European Union and the European Council. For the purpose of addressing the content of today's meeting, it is also necessary to recall requests for additional human resources and financial assistance addressed by our Government to the competent institutions of the European Union. Finally, it is worth recalling what has been almost completely overlooked in our internal public, the already existing assessments of external independent observers: the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Doctors Without Borders, the World Health Organization; all these assessments say that our country is responding well and appropriately to the situation. This is the image of the efforts made so far by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with the refugee or migrant crisis in our country. The situation in the country is difficult, constantly changing in view of the day-to-day arrivals and departures of migrants, but has never before been a threat to the smooth functioning of the country and the provision of its services to citizens and citizens. It is normal that in areas where the influx of migrants is large, there have been and still are operational complications that are addressed, solved and eliminated. Let me mention how. For example, with additional coordination meetings with local communities, by establishing new accommodation centres, by providing additional accommodation capacity. 23. 10. For example, a new reception centre was set up in Dob, a few days later a temporary railway platform in Šentilje. During the last few days, public works began to work in the housing centres. These are also the results or consequences of government management with a problem. However, all this efforts by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all efforts by humanitarian organisations, local communities, civil protection, security authorities and individuals will not be enough if we do not step together. In the given situation, the right response and, at the same time, both internal and external political leadership could lead only constructive cooperation and assistance. Migration flows of today, whether desired or not, have become an integral part of our present and also of our future. To conclude, let me point out once again that we must all be aware, together, that the mission of all of us is to respect the agreed democratic norms and values in the search for and addressing the current challenges of migratory flows, in which, without the use of force, we will address the cultural, ethnic, religious and political diversity of these flows. I am talking about the mission and responsibilities that we have been building in a complex and interdependent world over the past decades, without the widest possible mutual cooperation, trust and, above all, tolerance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Mr Janez (Ivan) Janša, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Your Honor! The session we have today should have been at least three months ago. Although we have heard some real words today about what we can expect and how we are prepared to do so, there are many things we should be prepared to do that we have not been past. There is relatively little time to discuss such a complex topic. Unfortunately, it must have been the opposition that convened this meeting, but I think we are slowly coming into a situation where we are awakening to reality. When it comes to dealing with refugees or migrants, or whatever you call them, ultimately people, it is clear that when it comes to treating people, that they are here in Europe, even Slovenia, the high standards that must be respected, and even if those criteria were not, people should be treated humanely. However, this problem and this crisis will never be solved if, like all of Europe, we are caught in this vicious circle, when we are talking on the one hand about unlimited solidarity and even the integration of these people, and on the other hand, we are strengthening the wave, which will ultimately be impossible to control. More are accepted, more are subsidized, more are put on the road. And this circle ends at some point, because Europe has no geographical, it's called spatial, it's not social, and if you want political and unlimited opportunities to make a spiral out of this circle. Today, more or less, we all know that, despite the fact that some people know this, they are still deluding because they think that something is just going to happen, that we don't have to do everything and that someone else is going to solve this problem, but they won't. Even this particular problem that we have today in Slovenia will not be solved by anyone else. Here is the big difference between what the President of the State said about this speaker and later the President of the Government. The first one was significantly more realistic in the sense that in certain situations, counting on someone else, in this case Europe, to solve the problem as soon as we run into it, is illustrative. [[…]] Remember how we solved a similar problem Spain had years ago. Did we do something? There was no debate on this subject, there was no support, no police officer was sent there. Nor in Greece, Bulgaria or Hungary. Now we are getting some of this help, which is earlier, with the exception of this ship that we sent to the Western Mediterranean, we have not been offering, and not only naive, but I think it is also quite inappropriate to ask others to help us in the situation now, because we, when others were in a similar situation, did nothing or very little. And we all know, of course, that in Europe some things work, others do not work, for some things we have regulations and a common policy, for other things we do not have this, and that some things that we have common rules and also common policies simply do not work in a slightly more difficult situation. The Schengen acquis was not designed to deal with this situation and does not work. And the cruel fact within this is – that we would not think too much about how Slovenia stands out here as a bright example – that the European Schengen border has fallen in two countries; the first is Greece and the second is Slovenia. Refugees cross two external Schengen borders, one is Greece, the other is Slovenia. It is true that those who come to us go mainly beyond the first external Schengen border, but then they go to Macedonia. In the opposite direction, this limit is as perceptive as it was intended. And then they are going through Serbia, which is not a member of the European Union or has no Schengen, of course like Macedonia, and then they are going through Croatia, which is a member of the European Union but does not have the Schengen border, no resources to do so, no assistance, no reinforcements, as we were given when we established this border. And this border, which is the external Schengen border, of course, is not only our border, it is the European border, and this border is as permeable as Swiss cheese, from the very beginning. For those who, of course, enter illegally and for those who apply for a Schengen visa, there is still the same procedure. A Kosovo businessman who wants to come to Slovenia for a few days in order to do business must apply for a Schengen visa, pay a fee and then wait for his visa to be granted or not granted. Even though it's a temporary entry. At the same time, tens of thousands cross this line just like that. Of course, you will say that in the given circumstances, such a limit cannot be controlled in such a way that the Schengen Agreement is respected, and of course it is. But we knew that this storm was coming because we were observing it, not only in Spain, which was far away, but then also closer, in Bulgaria and Hungary, and there was a lot of ink spilling about it, a lot of criticism was made, and no sobriety. Prior to attacking the measures by which the neighbouring Hungarian State provided or tried to ensure respect for the European order at the border. So the two countries are in Europe, which are part of the Schengen Agreement and which do not respect this agreement. These are Greece and Slovenia. And once the analysis of these processes is done over the years, it will stand out, so don't think that even those who may have contributed a lot to this crisis wave getting stronger, that they won't forget about it then, I'll say, their guilt or their share of it, and they'll say, "Look, the rules are clear, you didn't respect them, not now look at others, there are statements, there are regulations." [[…]] We have encountered this situation many times in Europe. When the first wave came, we were rescued by two countries that we had previously and later criticized very much. I didn't hear a word of gratitude. They gave us a few more weeks to prepare for the inevitable. The second wave came and there was chaos on our southern border. It is very difficult to listen to words about how well we were prepared and how all that was wrong there and what was chaos was the fault of the neighbouring country, because it was sending more people to us than we were prepared to accept. And these words were uttered at the same time that we started criticizing the northern neighbour, so Austria is said not to receive as many migrants as we send there. In short, these double criteria were eerie in the sky, but of course in Slovenia with the already tested note of most national media, it is very easy to show on ugly Croats and make them guilty. However, if we look at this problem in practice, and we need to look at it in order not to repeat it, it was due to the Slovenian view that Slovenia will accept only 2 000 500 migrants per day. If we had normal media with us, these statements would be when you said it and promised and choked that we could no longer, once published, but were never repeated. The answer from Croatia was logical, 'how do you imagine that you will receive 2 000 500 people a day if they reach us across the Serbian border 10 or 12 thousand?".. In 10 days it is then in Croatia, which is a larger country, clear, chaos. It took a meeting in Brussels for trains to start driving to Dobovo. But for these ten days, chaos was not Croatia's fault. Croatia may have been guilty because it did not protect the EU's external border – which it should have been more, only physically it could not, as we did not, because they were not prepared – but it is our fault that we have said, "we are only prepared to face the consequences of the fourth-degree earthquake" as if the earthquake could be determined what rates it should be. Then the sixth-degree earthquake came and it didn't work. Well, I would say, because of the lack of experience, because after the unfair elections that flooded only new faces, it also replaced the tops of all defence and security structures, not only in the government, but also the police director, the Chief of Staff, the Chief of both intelligence services and so on. Okay, I'd say it's an inexperience, and after two days, they'll catch up. But for two weeks, images from cornfields on the southern border and streams were the main attraction in European and world newspapers, while sharp words between representatives of the governments of Slovenia and Croatia. It is not true what we have heard today that Croatia has then given in and arranged everything after this meeting in Brussels. Slovenia gave in and after two weeks landed on Croatia's proposal to drive trains with refugees to the station in Slovenia, not to the cornfields. This did not happen in 1952 or last year, if anyone has a short memory, this happened a few weeks ago. We all know these statements. We know the warnings that some of us have been giving, what will happen, and yet nothing has happened. There had to be a meeting in Brussels to take account of the Croatian proposal. And to make it work now, look, it might work in Slovenia because of this extraordinary unilaterality and the serviceability of the media, but outside it doesn't work, it's just how and what it was. This illusion that thousands of migrants will be given if the neighbouring Northern State closes its borders and if Germany stops accepting migrants, thousands of migrants with some technical obstacles, as you say, will focus only on some points and people will just wait for us to count whether we still have a bed or not, as we have heard today, is the path to a new disaster. These things just don't work that way. These things do not work that way and our grief or our accident in this situation is that our northern neighbour can actually physically almost impenetrable close in a much shorter time than we can because of the geographical configuration of the border area, because there are also no unresolved border issues that we have with neighbouring Croatia, and also because they have been preparing for this for a long time, are also longer in this wave, a transit state, but whatever. I'm afraid in such a case we'd be surprised again. Imagine the closed northern border and, I'll say, our "sir" on the southern border; Slovenia is in chaos in 24 hours. And in three days in chaos, which is no longer manageable, because, just as it was said before, the multitudes would press toward the north. It would not have been there and Slovenia would not have become just a pocket, there would have been chaos here that no one would have mastered. Especially not with these security and defence forces that have been drastically reduced in every possible excuse. The President of the country earlier said that no one in the world knew how this crisis would unravel, that nothing could be further predicted. Someone who has no responsibility can afford such a statement, otherwise it is quite risky, because the country has people who have put them up, anyway, with elections, whatever, and appointments to certain functions, so that they know a little more and a little bit more, and they can prepare for it a little bit better than someone who discusses the bar. Today, it is reported that by the end of 2016, the European Union forecast for at least 3 million migrants or refugees will have reached Europe by the end of 2016. Whether this number is accurate or not, it doesn't matter that much. It is important that there is no one at this time to deal with this issue and to predict the halting of this wave. If anyone knows anyone who predicts this, they should quote him. So this wave is going to continue, apparently, in the spring. Migrations are as old as humanity, but sometimes there was no digital communication. Anyone who comes to Germany and gets the right status there, makes a few phone calls to his village, his relatives, friends, and several more go on the road if it is the same environment from which he tried to escape, and this dramatically increases the numbers. And the ability to control this number even in, I'll say, the most open and rich countries in Europe are coming to an end. Two days ago, Sweden, which has adopted the largest number of migrants and refugees, is a message – Sweden with a socialist government – that it can no longer do so and requires the relocation of these people. Germany has already registered over 800,000 asylum seekers this year, and Austria has registered almost 90 thousand. And the number of people asking for asylum in Austria is said to increase dramatically in our neighbouring country after the capacity of the north and west is filled. Thus, the next binding vessel is Slovenia and Slovenia is the only country on this path that has not yet changed asylum legislation. We haven't seen any suggestions yet. In Austria, Germany is a key topic, Germany has already changed, Austria is now changing, and speaking of no delays, there is certainly one here. Speaking of the longer term consequences of this crisis, it must first be said that the majority European response to this question is wrong. The European Socialists programme, in which this group advocates integration, is being summed up. Integration is good when it comes to controlled migration, which has taken place in Europe more or less controlled over the past decades. It is wrong to talk about integration in such numbers twice; for the first time, because there is no such capacity, and for the second time because we do not solve the crisis in the long term, but we are deepening it. If Europe were to theoretically accept and integrate without the expectation that these people would ever return home, all those millions who want to come to Europe from Libya, Somalia, Syria and so on, these countries will have only two possible fates in the future: whether they will once again become dictatorships from which people will continue to flee, of course, or whether they will fail the countries from which people will also flee, permanently. And this pressure, which is now going through Slovenia, will, of course, be permanent and no fences and no regulations and no regulation can stop it. Well, that's the wrong answer. The wrong answer is also a selfish answer. The engineers who are now coming from Libya or from Syria to Germany will be in a few years when after such and other intervention, peace and state building will be established there, on a new need for Syrian or Libyan industry and nation, as well as for German or, if you want, as for Slovenian. And at the beginning it should be clear to the people who come, who are mostly all in years, I will say, military obligations, the vast majority, that integration is not an option. That they should also reflect on how they will put their own homeland on its feet, stabilize it, contribute to its progress, and make sure that life is better there. Europe, as has already been said, has no room for all those tens of millions of people who would like to come here, of course. If that were to happen, Europe will also become exactly the place from which they are fleeing, and there will be no solution. Of course, the dimension of which the Government has not spoken today should be the first; this is the price, this is the cost. Mr Maramor, Minister of Finance, stated a long time ago that the cost of one asylum seeker per year is EUR 10 000, a net cost. The German numbers that the Government communicates publicly are even higher, but let's say it's a real number. This is much more than Slovenian pensioners get per year, and at ten thousand it is 100 million per year, net. Fifty thousand, as the editor of Youth wishes, is half a billion euros a year. If you are operating on numbers – and some numbers need to be operated on, the President of the State here too has committed himself to determine the upper limit that Slovenia is still transferring – then a financial calculation must also be made and it is necessary to tell the National Assembly where this money will be taken from. Are we going to be in charge of this, or is there going to be less money for, I don't know, infrastructure, I hope not the army and the police again, at this point? In short, if this is about readiness, then please tell me the numbers and tell me where that money's going to come from. I cannot pass the fact, even what has been happening in the shadow of the migration crisis in recent weeks, when the head of the corporate administration, the Slovenian state holding company with 12 billion or how many euros, is said to be the largest company in the world, when it is thought that this topic will overshadow everything and that everything else can be done. So I would appeal to those who have scissors and canvas in your hands – although sometimes the government moves, the government is called a control council, and now it says that it has nothing to do with these changes – to stop it because it is pointless to call for some cooperation and a common search for solutions if we are all in the same boat if at the same time this situation, which we are supposed to solve together, is used to prepare for the third bank hole in Slovenia if you want. Given that this claim, how Slovenia was prepared, does not hold back, nor does it hold back for today, our only hope is that these blockades will not reach north and west of us overnight. And in my opinion, efforts need to be directed in two directions: the direction from which this migratory flow comes, and the direction in which this migratory flow takes place. Something about the other one first. I hope the government is in daily contact with the German and Austrian governments. Germany and Austria have decided to build together a huge centre for the actual registration of refugees after they have been "registered" all the way down there. Now they're building a special center. So much for how we register, and so much for others. And other countries are somehow excluded from this because it is not about Slovenia being present, but it is less important. More importantly, both countries need to be appealed. Firstly, we will be informed in due time of the change in their policy of transition and acceptance. And secondly, that we will be informed substantially earlier, at least one month earlier, so that we will actually be ready for that time. This is what I would suggest to try to obtain a formal guarantee in this direction, if possible with the framework of a European forum such as the European Council. Working in a different direction, where migrants come from, is also necessary in my opinion. The President mentioned the Brdo process before. It is important to ask where this process has been in recent months when we need it. Previously, representatives, Heads of State, Government, Ministers, including the Ministers of Home Affairs in Brdo met at various conferences, I think of the Western Balkan countries, discussed everything that no one has remembered, but now that there is a real problem that we should be solving together, there has been no meeting. A mountain of alone. So we should go a little bit around these capitals and agree, say in Zagreb, that if Germany drastically restricts the admission of migrants to offer assistance to Croatia to protect the external European border, this is the border between Croatia and Serbia, and then together with representatives of Croatia to go to Belgrade and make the same offer, then together all three of them to Macedonia and make the same offer. It would be easier if it was done there. This would also force Greece to take action seriously, although we have very weak expectations here. You will not see this in our media, but we have also issued statements by the ministers of the Greek government from the previous term. Some of them are still ministers of this Syrian government who threatened Europe to flood it with refugees and migrants if Europe imposed conditions of economic recovery. These are ministers of the Greek government who have openly threatened Europe, and now to expect this government to stop this wave is a little unrealistic. But if this caravan I was talking about, which would increase in each country as another Prime Minister, would come to Athens and tell them that if they did not do so, the border on the line of Bulgaria, where the fence is already, and Macedonia and Albania, I think they would take this matter seriously. Until then, they certainly won't. A lot of activity was needed at that time. I believe the government is doing something you can't see, but I'm sure the moves I've just talked about can't be hidden. I think that the Prime Minister of the Government did not secretly travel to Zagreb at this time or to Belgrade and beyond, nor the foreign minister who likes to travel, and many others, but should. These activities are huge. Two days ago, the presidents of the Eastern Partnership countries met in Bucharest because of the Ukrainian crisis. They didn't wait for Europe to summon them, they gathered themselves. Europe, as we said before, has a rather limited potential here, and sometimes ambitions. So this We have here even a formal framework that has been given him such an ambitious name, the process of the Hill. [[…]] Let this be used, however, unless it is only for the pyre and for the painting. At the end of the day, two more things. I was pleased to hear the words of the President of the country who earlier said that we should, however, strengthen the financial resources for the Slovenian Army, Civil Protection and the police, otherwise the consequences could be significantly worse than what we have faced so far. His words about hate speech can also be confirmed, but at the same time it must be said that hostile acts must also be condemned. In this case, these are all actions that try to prevent Slovenia from being better prepared for this crisis in order to prepare itself in such a way that such forces do not have to be used in the end. Such hostile acts usually result in victims, although acts are wrapped in the word humanitarianism, usually. So don't forget this part that can cost Slovenia a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u19	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government with a ministerial assembly, honourable Members and Members! Today, again, for the eighth time in the National Assembly, we are discussing a solution to the migration problem. At the outset, I should say that Members and Members of the Desus Group strongly reject any political accounting and the collection of political points at the expense of the situation in which Slovenia was found, not on their own account. In the original version of this meeting, the applicants explained that it was not a political tactic at all. It is in everyone's interest to work together to find a way to best approach the resolution of the migrant crisis. Unfortunately, the debate on the Internal Policy Committee has also soon turned into political accounting and an attack by the opposition's work on all three competent ministers and the Prime Minister of the Government. We could say that's what we were expecting. In the Desus Group, we oppose such requirements for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, because we are only at a time when we should all come together to find the best solutions and, above all, to cooperate. The signatories of the request for a meeting may and will also repeat over and over again that they do not wish to share and intimidate a people so frightened, but above all they want to cooperate with the coalition, but when they read the request, it can be immediately clear to everyone that it does not. As the President of the Government has already said, calling for the resignation of three ministers or the President of the Government at a time of crucial importance for Slovenia is nothing more than an attempt to divide the Slovenians. The signatories propose, inter alia, to the Government that the National Assembly should immediately propose amendments to the laws, even referred to as the 'Migrating ZUJF'. Respectable proponents, the Government is preparing and implementing legislation that is necessary in the light of the current situation. We have thus adopted two amendments, the Defence Act and the Police Act, which Members and Members of Desus probably would not support before the migration crisis. The legislation does not change to stock, as some people expect from the government. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the Government has been acting responsibly and supporting solutions to alleviate the migration crisis all the time. Together with humanitarian organisations, volunteers, the military and the police, we manage the situation. This is where thanks and support go to all of the above. This is not the time to create emergency situations, it is time to work together, trust the competent authorities and act humanely in all of this. There is something else about the parallel that some point out in relation to 1991. In 1991, too, laws were not adopted for supplies, but they were adopted for the course of the situation. Mr. Janša and I probably remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much again for your word. Your Honor! We have begun to face the refugee problem very shyly before the parliamentary holidays. This shyness was not due to our ignorance or, as we are likely to be able to say today, to the proponents of this meeting, the incompetence of the government. It was a result of the European Union's reactions, which, at the very sight of this crisis, was merely anaemically observed and, if necessary, acted as an unagreed assembly which, with a bucket of water, extinguishes increasing fires. Nor did it sober up the increasingly worrying reports on the high pressure of the refugee wave at the external borders of the Union. With this irresponsibility, the infected European space was functioning in principle, even before a few months ago, until the wave is here, everything is fine. Not only Europe, but the entire international public has fallen to the test when, instead of eliminating the causes of this refugee wave, they prefer to put their heads in the sand or in the interests of their strategic, capital and political interests, the war in Syria has gained increasing dimensions. So, Slovenia is not and could not prevent this refugee pressure from happening with sufficient prevention. The fact is that we are on this Balkan path and that this path could be different. Controlled and, above all, enlightened by the common European policy, this has not been the case. I'm afraid this path is without labels. The way in which each country draws its own direction is directed by the people here and there, so the problem is moving on to others as soon as possible. We would expect the weight of the refugee wave and the problems during the journey to be resolved by the European Union's joint efforts, but it happened the other way around. With every border, political problems grew, and the refugee wave hit Slovenia with all its power. The turning point for Slovenia took place at the close of the Hungarian border. Slovenia responded immediately in accordance with and beyond its capacity. Today, when we look not months ago, we see that we have managed with extraordinary efforts, especially our sacrificing people, to ensure the flow of over a hundred thousand refugees across our territory towards Austria and the promised countries. We reacted as urgently as necessary and possible. This was finally recognised by the EU as well as by other countries. The flow of refugees and migrants changes from day to day. About 150,000 refugees and migrants crossed Slovenia. We have activated almost all possible resources to enable security and peace for citizens and citizens, and migrants and refugees to ensure humanitarian conditions on their way. This brings true gratitude to police officers who patiently, patiently, and with superhuman efforts dominate the crowds. Yesterday we also adopted an important amendment to the law concerning the organisation of the auxiliary police, as it is necessary and urgent to protect our police officers who need to rest. Assisted police officers will be able to begin their work immediately and at least lighten up excruciating police officers. An amendment to the Defence Act has also been adopted, allowing the military to use the powers of the police under strict conditions. It is worth noting that both the police and the soldiers of authority are more respected by foreigners than we are by ourselves. Civil protection, medical personnel, volunteers have also shown a great deal of humanity, understanding, so allow me to thank them once again for taking care of our refugees and migrants, as well as our citizens and citizens, where the river of refugees and migrants flows. The EU-Western Balkans summit has brought about a major shift in the management of this crowd. Croatia is now sending migrants to Slovenia, and Slovenia is informing Austria about these migrations. Yesterday in the National Assembly, we also had a visit to a group of friendships with Austria, which also faces migrants. The key message of the visit was that the EU must take appropriate measures as soon as possible to ensure that people remain in safe areas of the country of origin. Your Honor! Unfortunately, today's session reopens the field of two pillars of refugee and migrant issues. The real world is on the ground, along our borders, where people come and go, where cops, soldiers, humanitarians, medical personnel, civil protection including firefighters and all volunteers try to help with their hand in hand. I think that these hearty people, when thousands of migrants arrive, have no time to be reluctant to ask each other what political options belong to, who should be politically discredited, how to manipulate and invite ministers to resign and call them to account. There are real things happening: how to give the overcrowded, exhausted and sick people a temporary roof over their heads, how to offer them a cup of tea, milk for children, how to provide them with stings, how to provide them with an appropriate dress and shoes, how to ensure the safety of our people, citizens and citizens, how to do everything they can to make their lives go as normal. This is a real reflection of refugee and migrant issues. Today, in the National Assembly, we are witnessing another expression of this problem, which, unfortunately, in addition to all the explanations, we have the opportunity to hear daily, almost for an hour, feeds on political and, above all, flat-rate assessments of incompetence and what should be done. Your Honor! Social Democrats agree that we need to talk, but only if these words are chosen carefully if they reflect the full picture of this problem. It is not, however, that the context, including the international one that is so much forgotten, condemns anyone who works daily to resolve the changing situation on the ground, including with regard to the efforts of our government and all the competent ministers. They are not only dealing with the problems of our country's refugee crisis, but at certain times, whether we recognize it or not, the weight of this crisis of a broader international dimension has been imposed on them. Accepting political recommendations is the easiest, but at the very least effective. That is why today we cannot afford to just discuss what we can do, but what we will do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u23	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. Today's meeting is just one in a series of emergency and emergency meetings with which SDS and NSI are trying, this time with the support of the Non-Aligned Members, to show in every way that there are emergency situations in Slovenia and that the situation is uncontrollable. The rhetoric that is then used in these sessions is more dangerous and unacceptable every day. There is an increasing number of hate speech, an increasing number of forms of reality, both in terms of refugees themselves and in terms of safety and health. The statements and arguments used by the proponents are largely unrealistic and, in most cases, totally unacceptable and valuable. The National Assembly should prevent such meetings, for their purpose is merely to arouse fear among people and to raise cheap political points. That consideration of these recommendations should not be allowed is based on the very text of the request. From a purely formal point of view, the recommendations also included elements of the interpretation of the Ministers for Defence and Home Affairs and the call for a vote of no confidence on the part of the President of the Government. However, the wording of the recommendations is completely unacceptable. In it we can read that it is not about refugees, but about, quote, "the individuals and groups involved in cruel events and seas", the end of the quote. That we have, once again, a quote, "a categorical state reflected in the mass illegal crossings of the green border, inappropriate reception capacities of migrants, damaged by migrants private, municipal and state property and discarded food", the end of the quote. That the illegal crossing of the border by refugees is an existential threat to our sovereignty and that there is a danger of injustice. All these claims are, of course, unrealistic. It's just a lie. The police have already confirmed this to the public on several occasions. But it doesn't bother the candidates, it obviously doesn't bother the government, it doesn't bother the coalition, it doesn't bother the president of the National Assembly. Have any of the above condemned such a public discourse? Absolutely not. The inadmissible promotion of completely unnecessary fear of speech, not today, nor at any other meeting. The government and the National Assembly should work towards public reconciliation. With a session like today, we're doing the opposite. The fact is that the so-called refugee crisis does not present any security issue. No citizen is at risk on the part of the refugees. Nor is this a threat to the sovereignty of the State. Besides, the situation in the field has calmed down. This has been confirmed both by the Ministry of the Interior and by those who have been operating on the ground since the first day. The number of refugees crossing our country on a daily basis has decreased, transport to accommodation centres is finally a little better organised, registration procedures have at least partially adapted to the conditions on the ground. There are therefore no arguments for causing panic and fear among people, they simply are not. It is true, however, that adapting to situations alone is not enough. We expected more from the government, much more. The government has not been prepared for the arrival of a large number of refugees; that there are no concrete proposals on how we will deal with such a situation, we have begun to warn in the United Left just before summer. The government has often called for calls that in the current situation there is no room for division into coalition and opposition that it is time for state-level action. However, she was in no way able to listen to the concrete proposals that we have made on several occasions in the United Left. That the government has not been prepared for the arrival of a large number of refugees in any way, the contingent plan prepared in the summer also confirms. In this plan, the largest number of refugees who could cross Slovenia was set at 500. By warning that the number was unrealistic, the government refused to listen. In addition to concrete proposals that, for example, registration procedures should be abandoned and adequate logistical support and coordination in the field, the Government did not want to adopt them. All we could hear was a senseless repetition that we are the guardians of the Schengen and that we will respect all the procedures required by European asylum law. That European asylum policy is by no means suitable for situations such as the current one, the government has found it too late. On the one hand, her reaction was excessive and on the other hand focused on completely wrong things. The government has proposed an incomprehensible and controversial allocation of loose police powers to the military and the debate has focused fully on the construction of the fence. We are once again proposing that the government stop dealing with measures that will not help in any way. Instead of dealing with the question of when are we going to send armed soldiers to the border and where exactly are we going to set up a fence to prepare an intervention law. Not by giving the military police powers and bypassing a possible referendum, but because of that, there is no need for that. The intervention law should set up a bunch of other things. The intervention law should regulate the possibility of additional police employment, ensure an adequate number of health personnel, ensure simplification of registration or suspension procedures, ensure that all those operating in the field are provided with adequate working conditions and any other necessary changes. If we did so, there would be no need for daily extraordinary sessions and a series of laws that we adopt by emergency procedure. This way we are once again witnessing a meeting at which we will not adopt any concrete proposal. On the contrary, there is likely to be once again the most scholastic disputes over the difference between the establishment of fences or technical barriers. So about measures that will not solve the situation in any way, but they will only make it worse. The current situation can only be improved by concrete solutions aimed at providing better logistical support and better coordination on the ground, but as we say, we do not have such proposals on the table. Today's debate must not be similar to that of the committee on Monday, where we have been listening all day to an unacceptable discussion. In the Joint Left, we therefore expect that the President will consistently respect both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and will not allow the use of hate speech, the promotion of hatred and xenophobic statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u25	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The second migratory wave, which has clapped into Slovenia, has certainly revealed all our shortcomings and gaps in the face of a given crisis. We cannot solve the problems if the government representatives provide and claim that everything is under control and that everything is fine and the situation on the ground shows a completely different picture. If we want to increase the confidence between the Government and the opposition and also among citizens, the presentation of a real picture on the ground is a prerequisite. Today's debate, although some of you have already rejected it as unnecessary, can make an important contribution to imposing possible good and potential solutions in the face of the migration crisis. In New Slovenia, we are proposing and in some way demanding greater security in the collection centres and greater security of Slovenian citizens, so that the country is well staffed and technically prepared for a time when the reception of migrants in the north is substantially limited, rather than for the first time, and for the second time to adapt our asylum policy to our capabilities. Are we ready for a time when migrants will be significantly restricted in Austria and Germany? The answer is, unfortunately, no. However, they should be prepared in both technical and human resources terms. To provide effective technical means, one of the most effective technical means is definitely a fence. But we still don't know if we have it or not. We don't understand this hiding either, why is this even happening? If, on the one hand, the President of the Government claims that there is a possibility that we will set up a fence at the southern border and, on the other hand, he is hiding on all possible grounds whether this fence is already in the country. It's hard to understand why this is happening here. If we are to be prepared, then we must provide a sufficient number of teams to protect the border and ensure order. We're no match for that either. Thousands of policemen facing a border crisis are exhausted, and we still do not know whether the Slovenian army will be able to help the police with police powers. Also, the team at the border is not adequately equipped and paid and it is also the duty of any government to take care of it. However, since this country is also accountable to its own citizens, especially those who are unemployed and who are below the poverty threshold, we are also obliged to adapt our asylum policy in a way that does not make our citizens feel left out in cases of guests arriving in our country. Of course, we Slovenians are socially sensitive and we provide humanitarian aid to migrants. It is our duty to ensure that no one in Slovenia is thirsty and hungry. However, if we want to prevent any future conflicts and other forms of intolerance, which are much to be discussed today, then we must correct our asylum policy in a way that our citizens will not feel that the state has taken more care of refugees and migrants than it has of its own citizens. This will certainly make an important contribution to the release of tensions and fears, thus contributing to the possible faster integration of our new guests. The current facts and analysis show, of course, that Slovenia is not ready for a time when the flow will have to be substantially limited due to the restrictions in the north. There are also no serious proposals for a change in asylum policy. It seems that even in this hall there is a feeling that if it is not our problem, we are not to blame for this problem, someone else will be able to save it, and the one responsible for it must, above all, solve it. The problem will certainly not solve itself, and here we must rely only on our own strengths and resources. It may be necessary to explain why this is the case if the future migratory wave is not to be reduced. People in the Middle East and Africa are driving on the path of war and bad economic conditions. Wars are those who justifiably grant these people refugee status, and more are those who flee from bad economic conditions and are therefore economic migrants. The Balkan path, of which Slovenia is a part, is strongly exposed to conflicts in the Middle East. Conflicts in the Middle East encourage enormous numbers of people to travel across the Balkan route to the heart of Europe and the facts in this Middle East show nothing to stabilize or calm the situation there. If you look at the Syrian civil war, you can see that the political process of solving this crisis has only just begun mildly. There is only a great deal to be done to solve this problem, and in the meantime they support their opposing forces. So peace in the short term is not yet expected in Syria. At the same time, Iraq is falling apart. The northern part of Iraq is occupied by the Islamic State and thus drives the crowds from northern Iraq. We are witnessing new conflicts in Afghanistan. According to data presented by the Iranian forces, 3,000 people flee Afghanistan daily. Of course, these people are all going to Europe. We must not forget the last tension between the Israelis and the Palestinians. In short, all these conflicts show that the Middle East is restless, and that Slovenia can also expect people from these ends in the coming months, perhaps years. It all starts in Turkey. And it is interesting that Turkey is not prepared to limit this migratory wave, although it has an extremely strong and well-trained security force. Although well protected by its land boundary, it is extremely poor in protecting its maritime boundary. I would hope to say that Turkey is even in line with the current migratory wave, for two reasons. Firstly, this is how refugees and other migrants from their own country are speeded up. Secondly, the pressure on Europe certainly suits them as a better negotiating platform for money and other negotiations on cooperation with the European Union. It started with billions of euros of aid per year. Today, we are already at the number of three billion euros a year, as Turkey is asking to take this issue seriously. And that probably won't be enough, either. By comparison, this is a third of the Slovenian budget. On the other hand, we have another problematic country on this Balkan route, Greece, which, despite being a member of the Schengen area, does not practically implement Schengen; despite having one of the most powerful coast guards in Europe, they do not stop and refuse one rubber boat on a white day. Here, too, we may be able to help them to make an example of Australia, which by strict rejection of boats headed towards Australia, however, in the long run reached that the migration wave in Australia had calmed down. And Greece doesn't do anything here. A journalist from Television Slovenia even reported that boats sail on a white day and sail back to Turkey, so it is some kind of circular route between Turkey and Greece, which can bring daily, depending on the sea's turmoil, between 4 and 10 thousand people a day. And that's also the number that pops into Slovenia. So from the south we will face daily pressure between 4 and 10 thousand people in the future. At the same time, other problems are piling up in the north. The north is full, the northern countries no longer have such capabilities, and sooner or later they will begin to aggressively restrict the arrival of migrants to these countries as well. If I go in line. Sweden; currently, the minority left government in Sweden does not have enough votes to vote on its own budget in Parliament and therefore depends heavily on the other majority in Parliament, which requires the adoption of a budget for restrictions on immigration. So Sweden, as one of the most exposed countries, will certainly limit immigration in the future. Germany; The Bavarians, you know they're defending themselves and alerting them to excessive inflows. The final agreement of the coalition partners in Germany from the first November of this year, where they have clearly stated that they will strive to establish and operate pool centres on the southern border as soon as possible, to improve border control and to better implement a more acute asylum policy. Under the line, in other words, this means that even in Germany, coalition partners have agreed that the migration wave will begin to be significantly constrained. Austria will, of course, follow this policy. If I touch the European Commission. We were expecting a lot from the European Commission, but in the end, Mr Juncker told our President of the Government and everyone else on this trip that he expected better and more efficient cooperation. So, in other words, help yourself. It is essential that Slovenia prepares effectively and well when it is also important to reduce people's income in Slovenia. The pressure from the south will be great, and the limit of the north will be clear, and Slovenia must prepare technically and human resources at this time. If we do not significantly control or limit the flow of people into the country, we will certainly be in danger of chaos in the country, and certainly later also the shift of the Schengen border from our southern border to Karavanke, as the president of the country wrote or spoke about. And in this part we absolutely agree with him that it is strategically important that Slovenia does everything for the sake of our citizens, that the Schengen border remains at our southern border. We should not allow ourselves, because of our inefficiency, to move this border to our northern border. It should also be noted that the more difficult access to the north, the more asylum applications will be made in Slovenia. And our abilities are certainly not limitless, our abilities are limited. And as I said, we are responsible for up to 100,000 unemployed and 300,000 people living below the poverty line. And asylum policy needs to be adapted to our capabilities in a way that prevents our people from feeling alienated. We therefore propose in the NS that – when you said that we should talk about concrete measures and that today's debate should also contribute to concrete measures – we should prepare to limit the flow of people into the country. To ensure a fence, in particular, to provide more people and a larger team at the border, and to provide these people with an adequate payment. It's the first set. And the second set – we propose and demand that we also start changing asylum policy. Let us not expect others to help us, but let us help ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The Minister of the Interior has the floor, mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Today's meeting is extremely important because today we are talking about one of our country's biggest challenges in half history, and today a key sentence has been said when it was said that Slovenia is trapped in the heart of the migration flow. Slovenia is on the migration path and, in fact, no country that is on this path has been able to stop this flow; in fact, some countries have only been able to redirect this flow to a certain extent, depending on the circumstances, but this is still an insatiable category in terms of the mass and dimension of migration flows in the given situation. [[…]] As the President of the Government has already said, even larger countries such as Slovenia have been in distress, regardless of the fact that they already have historical experience in this area, that they have the capacity, however, to upgrade them in view of the incidence of mass migration. So the fact is that Slovenia is facing an extraordinary migration wave that is travelling across the Western Balkans and has reached us. It is also important to say here that Slovenia can not act against the migration flow until it has reached the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, so our police in the area of Croatia cannot act. The police followed the rules at the first wave, gave a written notification to the Republic of Croatia for return, were unwilling or refused. The behaviour of the Republic of Croatia in dispersion, of which you are all informed, also took place at a time when Croatia did not want to participate, while dispersing or directing migrants across the green border. When we were unannounced, we didn't know where, not when, in fact, our police were the ones who pulled the migrants out of the river. So I think it is unjustifiable and, in fact, unfair for Slovenia to be able to see anything in this respect. I do not agree with what has been said today, namely that Croatia could not physically stop the flow. In fact, Croatia does not want to, and it also publicly recognises this, which then flows into our territory. That is why we have had bigger problems, and I believe that we will also have them, which is not unusual after all, given that this is a potential Schengen candidate, which she has received a huge amount of funding for, but still does not implement EU rules. And that is why we can also say that our President's participation at the mini summit of Europe-West Balkans was a great success for our policy, because we managed to exercise our concrete interest so that police units are being sent to us, i.e. foreign police units to protect the border with Croatia, i.e. crowd control units, which in any case is absolutely necessary. At this point, if we look at the relationship between Croatia and Slovenia and Austria, we can say that it is still largely dependent on what we are able to reach agreement with Austria, and this is in fact causing us great efforts, but I believe that our police, and also that we are very successful on a political level. We can also say that in the first wave we did everything we could to save Slovenia from chaos. No group has crossed our territory without control. It has also been said today that the Western Balkan route has been formed in the last few months. That's not true. We have been following the Western Balkan route for some time, although it is true that it has not experienced as much media attention in recent months as it has experienced the Mediterranean route. We've been alerting this for a long time, actually since last year. It is covered in all risk analyses and in the performance of the tasks of protecting the state border and we have also been very intensively preparing ourselves. We have state border supervisors, and even increased the level playing field of police stations regarding the control of the state border, and all of this has, of course, culminated in the deployment of special police units to our border, of which we are all aware. As far as Schengen is concerned, it was said that Hungary respects the Schengen, from which one negative connotation was detected, that Slovenia should not respect. I don't agree with that. Slovenia respects Schengen. The border's not open. For some time now, there has been a substantial increase in control. We know the police have plans since 2013. Additional measures have been taken on the basis of the assessment of the situation, according to the decisions of the Government, in relation to the location of the hearing. The government has taken action and will also take action in the future with regard to security and all other risks, and as the President of the Government has said today, also the option of refusing migration in the light of the situation, I also do not agree with the systematic violations of the Schengen, as has been said, of indiscretion, of the failure of the Government. [[…]] That's not true. As a matter of fact, we were not surprised. We weren't surprised. This wave is no surprise to us, and we have also responded to this in view of the situation and the measures that the President of the Government has also spoken about, and I do not think I need to repeat it. I agree with what the President of the Republic has said, Mr Pahor. In fact, Schengen is our national interest. I'm sure we agree on that. As far as Slovenia is concerned, the Schengen is still in force. Not even suspended. The Slovenian police are still protecting our border as the guardian of the state border, including in the work where the Schengen border is, according to our standards and EU standards, but in a way that is adapted, because in a given situation there is no difference – a massive, mass influx of migrants who are actually exploiting our country as a transit country – and protecting the border according to our capabilities. Slovenia is a full member of the Schengen area, as well as of the EU Member State, and as other credible Member States of European integration, with the exception of some, it follows the rules, which, as it is said, are not adapted to the fact that a mass of people, including women, children, pregnant women and other vulnerable categories, is suddenly found at the border. In this regard, we expect, and at all meetings, the European Commission's strong responses as custodian of the EU acquis, because, last but not least, it is people who use our country for transit who want to go to the target countries at all costs. Slovenia is actually entangled between Greece – in which we know that there has been a breakdown of the integrated border management system – as a point of entry into the EU, and the target countries. It is also essential how transit countries act. At the operational and political level, Slovenia is making exceptional efforts to ensure the accuracy of this interest, which is also mentioned by the President of the Republic, with the preparation of measures to be taken by Slovenia in the event of restrictions on the reception of migrants in the target countries or in neighbouring Austria, and, of course, in the event that uncontrolled dispersion occurs again across our southern border. In short, if I summarise the President of the Government again, measures will be taken to ensure that the situation remains manageable, with significantly tighter State border controls already under way. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not give rise to a redirection of migration flows, nor was it any surprise. At the beginning of the year, very intensive preparations were made as regards the increase in applicants for international protection and also as regards the illegal arrival of foreigners who actually use Slovenia as transit on their way to the desired country, where they then want to apply for asylum. Security is and remains the primary imperative of the Ministry of the Interior, which is also a permanent task of our police, which is why the police are legally implementing measures to deal with illegal migrants. These people are registered to ensure maximum control over who enters our country, and security checks are also carried out, which is all a Schengen commitment, and they adapt their powers and tactics to the situation. The police remain the guardian of the state border, and I believe that both the Ministry of the Interior and the police, as a body within the Ministry, have done their job well. Our country acts in solidarity and responsibility. Slovenia is in fact the first country to attempt or slow down the migration flow it controls. This is the work of the superhuman efforts of all those involved. Our borders are not relaxed, migrants are given procedures, no spontaneous entry into our country, no dispersion has occurred across the country, as has happened in our neighbouring countries, security has not been compromised. And the work of the Ministry of the Interior is reflected in a security picture, which is manageable at the moment, the police have taken care of the safety of our citizens, no citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has been involved in a security incident and in any way threatened or damaged. In any case, the police are acting in the direction of dissuading illegal migration, and that is the essence of Schengen, which is, as we say, our national interest. At the moment, however, transparency is a priority and the closure scenarios by Austria and Germany, as the Prime Minister has said, are of course ready. In short, the system works, those who illegally cross our border remain in the police process due to illegal border crossings, and the capacity to supply these people, which we are still increasing, given that the weather will deteriorate, and the migration flow is fully controlled and controlled, so there has not been a dispersion of migrants throughout the territory. The police effectively manage the exceptional security situations involved, and the police also put forward a proposal to involve the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border as soon as these challenges were faced. This is already a major burden for our police forces. They are, of course, acting on the basis of police guidelines and plans, and I can say that the Slovenian Armed Forces are effectively helping the police in the wider protection of the state border. The key questions to which I think we need to answer today or that it is necessary to answer are: Has the failure of any measure compromised the security of the Republic of Slovenia? I don't think she was. Did Slovenia weaken the state’s reputation in its conduct? I don't think so either. Did Slovenia, in any way, threaten the existence or purpose of the Schengen area or the Schengen regime, which we know is that it is in removing internal borders to tighten control at the external borders in order not to reduce security in countries because it is in the interest of not only Slovenia, but also in the interests of all countries? I believe that Slovenia also protects the interests of Austria and Germany by acting at the border, given that it is a single Schengen area in which the principles of interdependence apply. Slovenia pays great attention to the necessity of control and registration at the time of entry, as this is currently a priority requirement of the Schengen area. In short, Slovenia is implementing all the measures that can and must be taken to ensure that the Member States make joint efforts to return to a situation where full implementation of the Schengen regime is possible again. However, it is a fact that the problem is bigger than Slovenia. We are disproportionately burdened because of our smallness, but Slovenia alone will not be able to solve this crisis. A common European response is needed to address the problem of origin, but at the same time, as the President of the Government has said, Slovenia is implementing and also planning all the measures and deepening them necessary for the smooth functioning of our country, in order to maintain security, in short, all the scenarios are ready. Today, it has also been said that this is the moment when we must stand together. I strongly agree with that. Indeed, this situation will actually reveal who is on the side of the country and who is on the sole side of its political ambitions. I think that the matter is very serious, so that we can play in this way, because anyone who is not able to step together at this point is extremely damaging not only to the political space, but especially to our country. Nor does he hold that there is no information. The Ministry of the Interior, with all the burdens we have, both at the political, operational level, we convene virtually daily press conferences through Ukom, so that the public and I believe that the honourable Members are also informed of everything. I also disagree with what has been said today that the Croats have warned Slovenia and that we have not reached agreement with them in time. I think that this kind of rolling in a given situation, when we know what kind of problems we're facing, is extremely unstateable. The Member must have thought about the agreements with Austria, not the agreements with Croatia, because this is where the problem lies, given that the accuracy in the main part depends on what we are able to agree with the Austrians. Austria is an extremely responsible Member State of the European Union, which has taken over a large part of the burden, and Austria has never been criticised and we are also putting great efforts into agreements with Austria. We are also very active at the level of the European Union. We pay a great deal of attention to the issue of effective external border management, thus returning to more active policies, returning the European Union to economic migrants already returning to the countries of entry, to the hotspot being established in the countries of entry, which would actually dilute migration flows and facilitate the situation in the European Union, because we are currently experiencing an indivisible flow, despite the fact that there are still two external borders of the European Union that leave migrants uncontrolled. Croatia is, of course, a Member State of the European Union, but does not follow the rules of the European Union and migrants directly from Serbia are heading towards Slovenia. I also do not think it is appropriate for Slovenia or the Slovenian Government to manifest a lack of readiness, because this is a demeanor for all those working on the ground. Unpreparedness is shown in the lack of field management and otherwise. So I don't think it's right for these people who spend their working hours on the ground every day, and also for volunteers, humanitarian workers, in short, all the actors who make extraordinary efforts to control the situation on the ground. Slovenia is taking comprehensive measures to control migration flows, of course, according to the assessment of the situation, according to international location, given the security risks, in view of the behaviour of other countries on the migration path, and of course, given the response of target countries, in particular Germany, which is leading its policy, a kind of open policy, for humanitarian reasons. The government in the function of border protection shall act proportionately. Plans and scenarios are being prepared, as the President has said, and will, of course, provide a timely and appropriate response to the crisis we are facing. I also believe that Slovenia has responded optimally both operationally and politically, which our police, in particular, support our police in efforts to balance the entry and exit numbers so that the so-called pockets do not occur in Slovenia. Finally, I will say that the security forces have been weakened in recent years, but not as has been said today because of the "explanations" we have heard today. Our police have been weakened because they have repeatedly fallen under the ruthless sword of a linear incision, which has relentlessly weakened it, despite reaching extraordinary results. And this also shows at a time when there has actually been no reduction in the level of safety, which proves today. The current government has partially recuperated the poor financial situation in the police, and we will also invest in future efforts to remedy this and to make trends go up. In short, we will do everything we can to make investing in security a continuous need, which, last but not least, shows the police budget for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. The text is by the proposer, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Take the initiative together, Madam Minister, it was not yours, it was my initiative. [[...]] And we did so on the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, where we have entirely unanimously proposed certain decisions to this National Assembly, and this National Assembly has also adopted them. From these conclusions, if you have carefully read the material and are aware of what and what we have decided, it has clearly followed that policy needs to be changed and that, for the purposes of the police, precisely for your area, defence, exactly what the President of the State was talking about today, and all other services, as we said, dealing with this issue, should be allocated significantly more resources and change policies to these areas, as was the case in the past, when it was possible to save over all possible borders in these areas. This has led to a situation where this was not a one-year process, it is a very long process, ladies and gentlemen. [[…]] But what has happened in these two months since this session, since it's almost two months from this session? Nothing. You came up with a draft budget, in which the police representatives were then satisfied, "it finally stopped the trend of falling". Yeah, wait, this isn't about stopping the downward trend. Things have changed dramatically, and they should be completely different. And if the Minister can't even use the decision of the National Assembly to increase funds, almost a unanimous decision of the National Assembly, then the Minister is obviously incompetent. So much for who's offering who's hand and who's not. As far as the neighbors' cooperation is concerned. Believe in the word There is one very Balkan proverb that those who are more Yugoslav-oriented should know: The promise to the people of joy was sometimes said in the Balkans. [[…]] And how about that, you've probably all experienced it on your own. The scenario that took place in the last few months, I literally announced at a press conference three months ago, but did anyone want to hear it? No, no, no. That's when they made a fool of each other. And that's exactly what happened, because it was so predictable that it was more than obvious. If they had acted in a state-of-the-art manner, since the Minister used this term, they would have prepared everything at the same time as Hungary, at the same time they would have set up a fence and declared a barrier to the border, and none of what happened would have happened in that period, because a clear signal would have directed these flows elsewhere, but no force, no costs, no problems, and of course no ingenuity, which would then be behind strong words. "Big accuracy": do you know what the flow is, translated into law, because today we should talk about law? This is what I miss all along in the words of everyone, including my professor Dr. Cerar, who is an extremely good lawyer. Operate with legal terms, for the word accuracy in this context is nothing more than a political pervert who hides the legal expression of a mass violation of Schengen, so to speak, mass illegality. It's a flow in such a context, and nothing else is that. This just means that people are quick to accept, quickly pack, little something that doesn't have a tail, yet they all have fake documents, or half of them don't have one, and they move on. How many impressions have been taken, and I really want to know this number because I haven't been able to figure it out? Almost nothing, no. I can help, so much so that we don't go for that jury up or down, but after the Schengen, we should take our fingertips, we should all have valid documents, we should all meet the conditions for a visa and we should all have a valid visa at the moment we enter the Schengen area. So much for the Schengen area. Schengen is dead and those who have made it possible are responsible for it, and that is precisely what those today are talking about the flow. It's running on short lines, if anyone doesn't understand, because this stream is going to turn, ladies and gentlemen. I don't believe this is going to take 10 years. Then, by the way, as I said before, our problem will be completely different. In this case, if this is really so many years, Europe will be gone and then we will be alone and our problems will be completely different and we will talk differently. But I don't think that's gonna happen. I believe that sooner the mind will meet all who really decide, and in this case, of course, this flow will turn. But you know what's gonna happen? It is necessary to read the Dublin agreement; people will return to the area where they were first described inside the Schengen, however. And that's exactly what Slovenia is, you won't believe it. And then we'll be in a lot of trouble, the pressure will go from below and the pressure will go from top to bottom. That's gonna be a problem. They can promise now, yes, we'll bring back the cargo planes, but I don't know what Germany's talking about right now. I honestly don't want to quote that saying again. When it does, I think good old trains, which are much cheaper, will sing their song, and these trains will then be transhipped somewhere, just the question of where. And that is why Slovenia does not need new corridors, and I do not know everything else about what is being said, but great accommodation capabilities, but Slovenia needs to protect the southern border, Slovenia needs a precise fence and nothing else to use the right term, not the technical barriers, but the fence, the "oreng" protected, and the consistent implementation of the Schengen in its territory, but nothing else needs Slovenia. None of us want anything illegal. On the contrary! Do you know what the absurdity of this situation is? That those who warn that Europe is making a fatal mistake, we just want Europe to respect its own legal order, which should be self-evident, since the legal order of every democracy and the foundation of a modern united Europe. But all the politicians who are responsible or irresponsible in doing so have gladly forgotten and then agree to the logic of talking a lot about refugees. Who – let's go to law, ladies and gentlemen – has the right to refugee status according to international criteria? Not one. Very simple. Because you have the right to refugee status in the first safe country where you can stop. There you have the right to refugee status, but when you go from there looking for, I don't know, better conditions and so on, but you're not a fugitive anymore, but you're an economic migrant. And if you're doing this without passports, you're an illegal economic migrant. Let's talk about the real stuff. By the way, who believes that this mass has shrunk so randomly and all of a sudden; this has happened before, but this has been incomparable to a lesser extent. Be aware that two years ago, as many migrants as have now gone through Slovenia came to Europe in just a few days. But all of it. That we will be aware of what a completely different dimension of the problem is now. And why did that happen? Of course, he did the money, and they did the secret jobs, and the money's already driving it. Even if all wars stop, this wave will not stop until Europe stops giving a signal: Come, come, for this signal is suicide, by the way, and has consistently implemented its own regulations, which would still be due. It's got to be done, and that's all. There are many other circumstances that we can talk about, but the problem is once you agree to the wrong use of concepts, then there are also the wrong solutions. [[…]] But behind it, as always – and in politics, we know, there is always so much more to be done behind the highly puzzling words – there are also many other interests. Maybe that's the math. If you give someone unjustifiable refugee status, even though you wouldn't be entitled to it, but if you give it to him, you give it to him, your problem, then of course he still has the right to join his family. And families, ladies and gentlemen, are not one-members, two-members or three-members, as with us, but there are ten, twenty members down there. Which means that if Slovenia gives 10,000 refugee status, because that's what we're talking about in Brussels, if you haven't heard this number before, then it could mean 50, 100 or even 200 thousand new citizens and citizens, and then that address of Youth doesn't seem as strange as it may have seemed to anyone. By the way, if anyone on the left said that it wasn't a refugee at all, it was exactly Youth because she said, "Good day, new citizens!" If they were refugees, they would just wait for them to return to their birthplace as soon as the situation calmed down. But if they have other goals, of course they are not refugees. By the way, we will use the right words, because if we want to find the right solutions, we need to make the right use for the start, and this, by the way, requires even, you will not believe, the intercultural dialogue which was unanimously confirmed in this National Assembly, not only by us, but by the whole of the European Union, in 2008, which everyone can be sure if it has already been lost in memory. Previously, it was said, "We weren't surprised." With all due respect, but the central message of the coalition in the debate on the amendment of the Defence Act was, "No one could have predicted, we were shocked and surprised." This was a discussion as much as you want, go watch your own magnetograms, and not today to say that it was not surprising. It may have been a bit of a surprise, it may have been purposely sitting on your ears, it's possible, but then it opens up some other questions, but certainly, don't say that there were no surprises. They were and were even publicly recognized, and not just one. When we talk about the damage that's coming, it's being manipulated all the time. One of the stupidest manipulations or tragic for Europe is that, "that means new economic development" and I don't know what for Europe. Come on, please! Official data – so that some data from the United Nations, UNHCR, if I am precise, declare that the German official information published by their government, about what hate speech, is 81% of those who come are illiterate and without schools. Of the remaining students they tried to train, 95% of the students did not finish schooling because they said it was offensive to them, that much. On this basis, the official assessment of the German Ministry of Labour was that more than 90% of those coming were not at all compatible with the German labour market, which is a quote. So much for what economic reinforcement and opportunity that means. While today, by the way, a European Commissioner was still saying that he expects migrants to revive Europe economically and that this will be a slight recovery if I quote from memory; this was on the radio just as I drove here. By the way, what testing for the presence of certain substances was sometimes not a bad thing. At real costs, let's go to the real one, but the data is the next. The official information, published by Germany just a few days ago, is: the migration crisis will stand due to the volume of one million people in Germany in a year of net 30 billion euros; this is official information, you can check all this moment online. What does that mean? That they expect the net costs of Germany to be 30 000 euros per migrant alone. At the same time, it must be said that, in addition, their assessment is that integration, if it were to occur, is an additional 10,000 euros. But let's put that aside, integration won't work anyway, for reasons that I'm not going to mention today. But 30,000 euros per one; now imagine what this means for poor Slovenia if a cork is made here and the border closes in the north instead of in the south. And all of a sudden, we're gonna have thousands, 5,000, 10,000, 20,000, and so on. What will this cost, and who will pay it? But be careful, it's just a net cost. Once again, indirect costs, and the costs of lost business opportunities are already on the rise. We have certain sectors literally clinically dead. First of all, tourism is here, of course. Who do you think will come here in the summer if there's still a migrant crisis here, burning camps, and I don't know what else. I'm sure you'll be leaving England, or I don't know where you're going to come from, a country like this. No, you won't. It's very simple. And don't think that abroad there are not so many cripples, those who make great friends of Slovenia, that they don't grab it. Writing foreign media, which was previously said, "foreigners report nicely" about the state of Slovenia is extremely poor and negative and rejects potential investors, even more than anything else, with which we have problems. And of course rejects tourists and rejects anyone who would like to come here; this needs to be realized and this will take as long as this lasts, and this is also one of the reasons why we need to act here and now. And don't brag about any accuracy, and don't count on him ever saying thank you for that. There's gonna be a boomerang for all of this. Those who are now being flogged up will come back and deliver them to you here at the border, and will say, "You have sent them, but you have them, and then you will make sure that they go anywhere further or have them here permanently." This is your problem under the Dublin agreement. And they'll be right, legally speaking. At that time, however, they will refer to a law that no one wants to hear about today. So there is no room for naivety here, ladies and gentlemen, but it would be time for us to start talking for the first time about facts and true concepts and find the right solutions. And the right solution at this point, unfortunately, is only one. It is necessary not today, but yesterday to place the unfortunate fence down as much as possible, at the maximum speed, to give the signal – because this is what if someone still does not understand – that the border is closing here, and that at least temporarily protects Slovenia in such a way that this flow is diverted elsewhere. The permanent solution for Europe is only one; things will have to start to be regulated in those areas where these people come from, but it will not be easy. For whoever thinks, once again I say that this stream has come about by chance, he probably also believes that the Dolenjians no longer like exercise. This has been done by secret services, knows exactly which countries; look who's benefiting from it. And it drives the money of the Saudis and the Kuwaitis, and that is a public secret. The movement of 100,000 migrants costs 2 billion euros and they pay for it, which is why these people have so much money. It was tragic that they could pay for taxis, and I don't know what they were giving 500 euros for what goods, and they were collecting from us families that didn't have to live alone to help the poor refugees, and they were full of money not to see themselves out. This is a real state, everyone says that with them around work, you all know that. It's a real state. To protect the border, of course, you need people. And here we only need to continue and demand help and have only one strategic goal – the future Schengen border must not be on our north side, but it must be on our southern side. But I am certain that when this signal comes from us, it will come from us, believe me, the next day it will be in Croatia, two days later in Serbia and the whole system of dominoes will go down to Greece. And if the Greeks started to implement the rules in the right way once again, things would be settled very quickly. However, here it is necessary to be so smart and careful that Turkey has some very special interests and not to count on them to stop these things. If the Turks wanted to, this migratory flow would have dried up in this direction in literally an hour. If we wanted to. But why won't they? I guess it's clear. There are two interests: one is to force financial assistance, the other is to enter, access to the European Union, not entry, and more so, but the debate on this would take us too far – just to go beyond the applicable rules and procedures of the European Union – and that is why any thoughtlessness in international relations is always intertwined, and this is true for everyone and for everyone, especially when it comes to, and it is necessary to say so publicly, migrants as weapons. That's really the story. And once we all face it responsibly, as the whole of Europe I speak, not just Slovenia, the thing will be easier to solve, but by then we must rely on ourselves alone and exclusively and stop counting on the agreements with our neighbours, and what this promised, and what he promised, will ultimately not apply. It will apply precisely and only as far as sovereignty is concerned, within the framework of the acquis of the European Union, we will guarantee ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm surprised, Comrade Grimes, that you're staring so vehemently into the camera and talking about how the police and the military have been failing. Of course it has, several governments in a row, and so have yours. And our minister and our government were able to stop this trend right at the beginning of the mandate, and that is something she is commended for. Now, as to your request for today's session. The proposal states that it refers to the uncontrollable situation at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia, but so far we have heard about rice, I do not know where. I would really suggest that we focus on exactly what this reference is talking about. I understand that you have submitted this request to the SDS, including Nova Slovenija, somehow fits me here, but I cannot understand that there are also Signatories of colleague Bon Klanjšček and colleague Dobovšek. In fact, I felt like a student at his lecture when I was implementing colleague Dobovsk, and what he was talking about had nothing to do with what was said in that reference. The opposition is loudest when the government is doing well. Since, of course, there is no exceptional situation on the ground, such a reference must be made to give the impression that the Government is incapable of working to discredit individual ministers, as you have done in this proposal. Of course, you state how constructive your suggestions are, how you want to help, how you want to get some solutions through the debate, and at the same time in the proposal you ask for the replacement of three ministers of this government and also the President. As has been said several times today, Slovenia is a very small country and this migratory wave is a very high pressure. And by no means is Slovenia, as well as any other European country, capable of controlling this migratory flow, so it is a common task for the European Union to do so. You realize, of course, that the European Union is not harmonised, that all measures last, not to be implemented, but at the same time we can find that we are not already able to harmonise and step together within our own small country. Then we are surprised that Europe does not. Here you have written in this proposal, "... in the Republic of Slovenia, the government of chaotic stands reflected in the mass illegal crossings of the green border, inappropriate reception capacities of migrants, damaged private, municipal and state property..." Me and my colleagues and, of course, the whole government are on the ground all the time. We monitor the situation, we cooperate, many of our colleagues, including me, we have been volunteers in these centres and we have helped, and I must say that we have not detected this chaos at any time. Not now, not before, never. I don't know where you got this information, where you saw this chaos. I must say that the situation on the ground is of course difficult, but they are manageable, that everyone is working very hard. The situation in the centres is carried out in some orderly manner, with a precise division of tasks, with a specific procedure for individual migrants, which, of course, is also provided, transiently established, and offered with warm meals, basic medical care, clothing provided, footwear provided, even filling their mobile phones and so on. The approach is really human. Let me mention that in one day the army delivered 5,000 895 warm meals, 850 kilos of bread, 970 liters of tea, and 130 liters of milk in one day! That the people on the ground you're saying are afraid of here, and in fact, the Dela poll found that the greatest percentage of citizens are mainly concerned that these same people managed to collect humanitarian aid in money and material worth over 150 000 euros in a week. So, too, people in the field sensed that there was a need to help them to cooperate. And here in your proposal you also mention a whole range of perceptions about the chaotic state that I have told you and I find it offensive that you are talking about a chaotic state, particularly an insult to those who are located on the border and in the accommodation centres that are really doing well and trying. About the Schengen. Slovenia has consistently implemented the procedures for the registration of migrants in both the first and second migratory waves. Following the EU-West Balkans Mine Summit, Slovenia has also established an even faster and safer and more efficient registration system, while recognizing the complexity of the process in such a number of persons under consideration. In the center where I followed these procedures, the four-point police were able to register 100 people per hour, which is not so small. The procedures are very complicated and I must say that everything has really been going on without a hitch. In your request for a meeting, you also mention that Slovenia has behaved passively with regard to the conduct of the Republic of Croatia. I do not know if you are aware that the Republic of Croatia is a sovereign country, which is itself obliged to implement EU rules, and there is no way that Slovenia can impose this on any other country. The Republic of Slovenia had already pointed out the non-response of the Republic of Croatia at the time of the first wave of migrants. At first, it called for direct cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and later pointed out this at EU level. As regards damage to private and public property by migrants, I have already asked you on the Committee on the Interior to give examples of this injury. Of course you didn't do it because it wasn't. When we listened to a speech by our colleague Janša today about the cost of an individual migrant, even converted into how much an individual pensioner receives each year in Slovenia, we would also like to calculate the cost of the fence and its installation for 670 kilometres of borders with Croatia, and for which people should, of course, be people, otherwise this fence is ineffective. You'd need an extra 6,000 people for four shifts, and you'd have to figure this out for your pension. For the record, I'd say so. This is really a moment when you should step together, and you've already figured it out, but you're not doing it. If the opposition should also show some state-of-the-art, some constructiveness, and it is also a moment when the opposition could finally admit that the government has done something right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Replica, Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes. The proposer shall, however, be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u34	I've got a head start anyway. Look. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Just a second. Jernej Vrtovec applied earlier as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u36	Look, just for a little while. If the lady hadn't noticed, the tents were burning down. If it's not doing damage, and it's intentional to look at those beautiful boys, the loaded soldiers who were doing selfies from the front with the new iPhones 6, that was a real picture of what's coming to us in real life. And then let him convince me that this is not doing damage to public or private property. I don't know what it is. Then tell me what it is. Are these fun games by the fire or what? If that is the accuracy of what is actually called a mass breach of the Schengen Agreement and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Apparently, we're going to operate on some new political methods and concepts. Second thing. When you talk about it, look, back in 2008 – what you need to see when you have a whole period of time, not what year, when you fix the previous one and work hard, what you can do is – for example, 750 million euros, but now, if I'm not mistaken, the budget is about 380, that is, somewhere in the middle of that amount. So much for that. But I didn't say it was anybody's fault. I made this point to say that it was saving up here and that it was going too far. But now it would be time for the decision taken here, including by your vote, to be taken into account, to substantially increase these resources in the budget. And the damage that's caused by this is much greater than the cost of that fence. Do you imagine the fall of the complete season of tourism in Slovenia, what costs will it cost? Then who will answer? You'll say yes, but that's a higher power or something. No, it's not a higher power, you have to think about it first, ladies and gentlemen, but it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! I'm alone out there somewhere in the middle, when I'm sure no truth is absolute, and so I'm going to give a few thoughts here on the cause of this session. First, the question of so-called surprise; in history, no process can be so planned that you could say that you should have known it sooner. It is very easy to go back, but of course it is very difficult in advance, especially in such an eruption – since we have spoken many times, I forgive those who happened to be here and you have heard – such an eruption does not know when it will and where it will end. It started a war, with hunger in the Middle East, and, of course, then it even picked up a bunch, millions of people together, including the Balkans, and now, of course, it's going to Europe. No one could have known about it prematurely, so I would ask those who really know that things are being evaluated, as we say historians, in time and space when things happened. Second, as far as the Slovenian government is concerned. We've talked about this a few times. Of course, I am one of those who think that the Slovenian government is doing well, that the police have done their job, the foreign ministry, the military has already helped when it has, when it still has, so much as civil powers, when we have not yet enacted the law that we have adopted to enable it to do something that would be a little more. We stress all the time, a great deal has been done by civil society. Of course, we admit that, and I think that's a good thing. However, this civil society is a Slovenian tradition, it has always happened in Slovenian society that people organized themselves or, well, with these civil associations already organized and helped. This is in our war, if you want, the 20th century and the 21st century very important. Planning defence in this sense. Here, of course, I would like to remind those who think how to plan everything from headquarters. It's not working! No war in history has developed as well as those who planned it would. And I don't want to compare it to war, but there is a crisis, I'm sure we have problems, but you can't plan it to such an extent as to say, so this measure is the only real one. It is therefore necessary to adopt legislation on the other hand, to adjust time and space if I can do so again. The fact that they are broken down by the rule of law and that it is lifted, therefore, that the restriction of speech is, of course, absolutely in modern times is of course an issue that, of course, I cannot agree with. We may have some problems, especially in this area where these migrations happen, certainly not easy for those people, but the legal order in Slovenia in nothing, I do not see that it would be broken. Also, speech limitation – let me put it this way. Look, if I sit here all the time, I know exactly what one of the Members will almost say when it's time, because we've talked about this before, I won't say it again, but I will say it again and again. And in fact, I don't know who confined the speech to anyone. As for the neighbors, I also apologize for repeating this. In fact, this great faith in Croatia Here, of course, I give the Minister of the Interior the right. Croatia is not some item at which we might have to talk, of course, as I said once, but we must not be naive. [[…]] I'll do it again. I do not know where the defence minister for the time of liberation of Slovenia had this great faith in Croatia as a country, but when he was the one when Croatia cut out the agreement we had to fight against the Yugoslav army, Slovenia and Croatia will stand together if aggression occurs. Croatia has replaced the Minister of Defence and, of course, there was no such joint assistance. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. I know that the President of the Government, the Foreign Minister, will talk to you, I hope that he will be of this kind, but we must be reasonable or realistic in these matters to some extent. Finding the reasons for everything together in the multinationals who are guilty; this thesis is true, but today we will not solve anything with this thesis or by solving this problem. Today, nothing helps us to know that large capital is to blame for these immigration from North Africa and the Middle East, the fact is that today we have to face the situation, the situation, as it is at this moment. And of course, the fact is, the problems are big. Slovenia will not solve these problems on its own, but I am sure that no Berlin Wall will save us if this invasion, an eruption, if I may say so, reaches too many dimensions. At that time, of course, we are also dependent on the international situation and on these arrangements that we will conclude. At the end of the day, let me just think that I won't be too long. In fact, despite the fact that the situation has its own problems, but the security aspect, I think we should not be confused by the fact that we are dealing with people, and I am myself for the humane attitude towards the problems that we have every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. With regard to today's topic, however, I would like to draw attention first to the fact that the problem of economic migrants and refugees is, in fact, linked to the situation in the countries where the war was imposed. Indeed, we need to know that both in Syria, Iraq and Libya, the status of life was clearly higher than in Slovenia because no economic migrant has chosen Slovenia for its purpose. So it was a higher standard than in Slovenia. With the war in place, this situation has changed. However, it must be made clear that this forced war was mainly due to the control of oil, oil resources, of course, American multinationals want to control these resources and, of course, to control the world. That is why I imagine and think that the European Union and its foreign policy must also be expected to play a more active role in preventing these multinationals from carrying out these activities. These countries can re-establish their oil market, they can re-establish sufficient resources to restore their homeland, hire people, and thus end this migratory flow. If we don't do this, then we'll have bigger problems from day to day, month to month. Let me say that, in fact, I am pleased to finally hear the word "national interest" in the Slovenian Parliament and that we must protect national interest. Recently, when I myself spoke of national interest and drew attention to the security of the country, I was actually branded as an anti-State element. That's a lot of progress. However, when we talk about security in the country, we must also draw attention to this budget, which is in the procedure, 2016, 2017, the minimum investment in improving the security system in Slovenia. [[…]] And why did he suffer from the security system in Slovenia? Due to the financial and economic crisis imposed on Slovenia. This crisis is significantly more dilated than it is real. In fact, I expect the Government to put both the Bank of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance ahead of the fact and, however, let the Slovenian public tell the real picture of the excessive financial and economic crisis, which consequently reduces the resources right for the security sector, which is the most important right now. And if we are not able to resolve this issue in Slovenia in a short time, then we will not have the resources to successfully organise and ensure the security of people and their property, and of course also to prevent the sale of our economy and to afford ourselves a better economic picture than it is now. This is one of the first jobs I've seen. Secondly, during this period, it has proved to be the only civil protection actually extends somehow to local communities, to local communities, to people, along with humanitarian organisations. Everything else is organised within its framework, and here I would also like to make a very clear and loud statement of criticism to all those who have advocated a reduction in the number of members of the Slovenian Army from 7,000 to 5,000. All those who advocated this should explain today how to ensure the security of Slovenia by reducing the number of members of the Slovenian Army. But that was a fact about two, three, four, five, six months ago. Of course, I expect in particular that we are making a sober attempt again to organise how to deal with this crisis, and in my opinion there is no other option than to actually open up a new law, which I have already mentioned under the Police Act – the General People's Defence and Social Protection Act 1982, which had a defined national protection system and also had a defined territorial defence system. Only with national protection can we manage the security of people's property, including people themselves, because you all point out that this migrant wave that has gone to Europe will go back. On the other hand, it will not stop, which comes from North Africa and, of course, the Middle East. How are we going to handle this? If we do not organise ourselves and if we do not accede to the adoption of the National Protection Act, we will in fact be cut off from all of this and exposed significantly more than we need to. We must be aware that Slovenia is a Central European country and, of course, we can defend this status on our own. No one's gonna help us. The European Union has also proved itself not to be a system that works, and, respected, NATO; is it then the one that provides security for us right now in this problem of migrants? Not at all. So the money we provide for security also needs to be invested differently, and this is national protection. Yes, it is necessary to invest money in this system, and with national protection it is then possible to deal with the forces of the police and the Slovenian Army. Otherwise, we will become completely powerless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today, the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, addressed MEPs and Members and Slovenian people. I think we can be satisfied with the message value of his speech. I'm personally satisfied. In some ways, I consider it an honor to have signed myself under the request of this meeting of the National Assembly, which is necessary, even if some of you are criticizing. You do not have any solutions to solve this migratory crisis or have no solutions to be proposed for more efficient management of the migratory flow. I am pleased that so many ministers, ministers, secretaries, secretaries are sitting here and we are listening. It's crucial that we listen to each other, colleagues and colleagues. And the key is to properly inform and properly inform our citizens and citizens. What do I mean? Today, all day on Twitter, there are pictures of cars with barbed wire, if it's a fence wire. It would be right for someone to say: Yes, this is the wire, we have purchased, under these and these conditions we will also set it up. And don't say we'll put it on the Slovenian-Croatian border because it's not set. You have to tell me exactly what this is all about. And that's probably what our people deserve, and in this way, correct information would also eliminate a variety of panic and fear. That we should talk at European Union level, I have also seen, when I attended the plenary session of the European Parliament on Tuesday, 27 this month, or more precisely, the so-called priority debate when the conclusions of the European Council were discussed on 15 and 16 October, in particular on the financing of international funds, and on the meeting of the leaders of 25 October, this was last Sunday, on the Western Balkan route and on preparations for the summit in La Valletta, which will be held on 11 and 12 November, that is next week. I would like to give you, although I have little time, the impressions that Mr Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, and President of the European Council, Mr Tusk. All three of them actually talked about facing a crisis in Europe that we have not experienced since World War II. And Mr Schulz, among other things, said on Sunday, 25, that it had become brutally clear that the situation was worrying, the weather was getting worse and we were facing a humanitarian disaster. The 17-point plan, which was adopted on Sunday, should be implemented immediately. And Mr Juncker was very loud when he warned that the Balkan countries were talking through each other instead of each other. And in this context, I would also like to invite Mr Erjavac, the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, who is not here at the moment, to do so – and I see him now – in accordance with our discussions on the Committee on Foreign Policy, on the EU Affairs Committee, when we consider the views of the FAC, this is the EU Council for Foreign Affairs, the EU General Affairs Council, the position of the European Council, to nevertheless establish more communication with its colleagues, so that, as I did on the 29th of last month or September, how long it is already running, we must establish an information system, how it runs and how this migratory flow will flow along the Balkan route. Today, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, at least I can claim for myself, I have no intention of tearing anything down nobody. It's about talking here, and it's about finding together the solutions that we bloodyly need right now. Instead of dealing with the development of the Republic of Slovenia, we must, unfortunately, deal with what has happened to us and what has happened to the EU; therefore, twice us – Slovenia as well as Slovenia as a member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare the mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, behind her, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Regardless of the many times mentioned today, allow me first one large and sincere thanks to all those who are trying to keep the situation as normal as possible at these crisis points. We have also heard many times today, and this is probably the fact that this refugee-migrant crisis will not be short-term and will be in such, slightly smaller or even larger form likely to last for quite some time. I therefore somehow miss longer-term measures, and I hope that today we will hear about this from the competent ministers, because the President is no longer with us. Mr. Horvath mentioned before me, and it is true that there has been a lot of talk in recent days about technical barriers, about the wire fence. And I think it's right for you to tell us that if you're thinking about it, you probably have reasons for having this fence already, and if you have to, can you, if I simplify it a little bit, start setting it up tomorrow morning? I don't know why it takes so much uncertainty or hiding places to do this. Also, under what conditions do you think this would happen? Dear Minister of the Interior, I can't go past the police strike today either. I went back to the media to look at the records, but I allow you to be misinterpreted, of course. Even if you have not said that you support the sentence, but I have understood it, and I now appeal to you to do everything you can to ensure that this sentence does not come to pass; you are the Minister responsible for it, and it is your duty to prevent it. We can only help you with the votes in the National Assembly, even with the budget, if necessary. Not enough words to make you understand them. There will also be a need to do something to make things happen. I agree, however, that this refugee-migrating crisis is in no way and must not be a point for gathering political points, and I do not think that we are acting that way in the National Assembly either. A fellow Servant spoke of constructiveness and how we must walk together. I very, very much agree with those words. Colleagues, but then at least one of our little things or something should be taken into account. And if she felt like she was in a classroom at my colleague's show, I felt like I was in first grade. I believe that the lady has already heard that no question can actually be stupid. Such ones can only be answered, and this performance of hers is much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much, much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The motioner has said many times, but it is also heard all the time and we are talking about the fact that this is not a refugee crisis. Let me say that this term is used in a conversational manner, but legally it does have another meaning. But we all know that today this is more or less the migration of the world dimension, which will also significantly record traces into our history, of course we know that. When we talk about Slovenia, of course, we also need to be aware of this broader context of history, so that we can understand why it is actually going to work, because otherwise we are only tearing all things out of context. The reason may be the war in Syria, but of course many of the reasons Spengler marked them when he spoke of all these causes as a culture, as a civilization, and he took a comparison as to this new culture and civilization, comparing the young and old culture among himself, as if you were comparing the crystals in the mineral that are in stone formation and needing some momentum to come into their pure form. And here, too, in the field of these civilizations, it notes that some long-lasting oppression and exploitation has resulted in so much hatred that they needed some volcano and it has come to them that they can express some form of themselves. But unfortunately, this kind of discourse is not suitable for this place and is probably understood by some. We understand, however, that this is a matter of tectonic movements in history, and at least we, who feel this arrival of migrants as an intrusion, are concerned. And we can rightly be concerned, and I think we must listen to all sides. So what the opposition says is what the government says and stresses. However, the President of the Republic said earlier how we should talk and act at a time when we are talking about the migrant situation. The situation is not black and white, and it can't be black and white. When we talk about the timing of the response; yes, we can agree. The response should have been a lot, much earlier. We're too late. But we have not missed Slovenia, the whole of Europe has missed out, and all those who have helped these cultures to experience this situation have done nothing to instill exploitation in this area. Slovenia, someone will say, was not an imperialist, did not conquer; but it is part of this map, of this history, and we really need to see in this context what is happening, thus paying for the humanitarian security aspect, seeing negative and positive aspects of what is happening. It's not all negative. Of course, it is to be concerned and, of course, to do as the President of the country has said, considerately. Every action that we do is to be deliberate, and our government has done the right thing, and I have written in my speech, extremely reasonable, and I think that what the President of the Republic has also stressed is thoughtful. The fact is, our abilities are limited. Someone really said, "if we're just ready for a Grade 4 earthquake, what do we do with a 6. Level?".. Yeah, but still, our capacities are limited, and we've said that a number of times, so our abilities are, so we can have 2 thousand 500 people a day, we've said that, we can provide. But when it comes to more than 10,000 people, it means that there are different situations in the country, so that they can reverse normal activity. And, of course, given the situation and this prudence, our government has stepped up its actions in the light of the situations that have taken place. This does not mean that the Government was not prepared to have no measures; the measures were prepared but responded according to needs and circumstances. However, you are still a whole Europe, and we also want to preserve the united Europe that we have created and that allows us to live as we do. Let me list some of the internal political measures taken by the Government to ensure that it is not doubtful whether it has been prepared or not, but about foreign policy, it will be my colleague who is more credible in this area. So, before the first refugees occurred in Slovenia, the government had prepared plans, organised meetings with local communities, with volunteers and also had an organised coordination group. That was back in the summer. It introduced temporary border controls with the Republic of Hungary in September of the month when, in fact, something else was happening in Hungary. The Ministry of Health has prepared guidelines for the admission of migrants to health care in reception and accommodation centres, as well as in nursing homes at secondary level. There was agreement to work within the Ministry of the Interior for smooth work. Let me point out, there were no migrants at the time when these measures began to be implemented. Civil protection had already begun to set up in the border areas of the tent, the auxiliary police had already activated and, of course, had begun to draw on supplies, preparing them to be used at the arrival of the refugees. The temporary border controls with Hungary were then extended for further days. Our Prime Minister, Dr. Cerar, addressed the refugee issue at the 70th anniversary of the United Nations in New York and drew attention to the problem, as this external activity is also important. The Ministry of the Interior has continued its activities of providing accommodation facilities and locations for refugees, not only tents, but we also have other capacities. He started setting up a new accommodation centre in Šentilje and, of course, reactivated and intensified cooperation with local communities. If we go to October, we were also active in stopping the migratory flow at its origin or just after its origin, and we sent our ship Triglav to take part in Sophia's action, and she has saved 100 refugees, today reporting the next 200 refugees she saved, so they are also going to praise these actions. At the expected incursion of the green border between Croatia and Hungary – we are talking about October 16th, it is said that all these measures had been implemented before – reinforced police units were posted, and logistics support firemen were also activated on the ground. Police Director-General Marjan Funk met with his colleagues in Vienna to agree with the Croatians and the Austrians, neighbouring countries on the measures needed to direct the flow. We had already officially requested assistance in police equipment, police assistance and financial assistance. The government had already adopted a law, an amendment to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, so that we could include the auxiliary police and be able to cooperate. Yesterday we also confirmed this law in Parliament. Foreign Minister Erjavec sent the European Union Vice-President a letter of urgent financial assistance, which we have also received. At the Age, we started setting up a new reception center for refugees. We have asked the European Commission for another 10 million euros, which we have also received. In addition to existing capacities, the Ministry of Health has agreed to attract other health institutions across the country and has set up a special combination group. Minister Koprivnikar invited public servants to participate as volunteers and attended. In the context of increased needs, we have also employed 260 people in public works and 200 unemployed have been involved through Slovenian philanthropy. We were visited by the World Health Organization, which assessed our situation and found that the situation was difficult, but that it was difficult to help us because we were too well organized to offer help, so they said. So much for the health situation. Doctors without borders who participated directly also praised our work along the border. On 29 October, the Minister of the Interior – we wonder if we are ready – assured the Government that different scenarios have been drawn up and that measures will increase depending on the situation. The use of technical barriers is also not excluded, but if we are afraid of this term, the barrier can also be used to direct migrants, that is, not to close the border, but at this point the targeting of migrants is still being considered. So, last month, we were ready for this, and there's a moment that's going to dictate the situation. As far as the sentence is concerned, the Ministry responded to the police strike, and I'm sure it'll do anything to ensure that it doesn't happen. However, I must admit that, at this point in time, if there are certain commitments that have not been fulfilled over the years, this does not seem to be a good time. We can talk about the supplements, the measures that are needed to motivate police officers, and I may be disappointed at the fact that at this point a strike is being announced that payments are being made, that we know they will be paid, and that the terms are being used to make the government ache. I don't understand because I don't think cops think that. The National Institute for Public Health has prepared all the necessary guidance for those involved in these actions, for the prevention of their protection and for the health of all those working there with migrants. We've engaged 120 Furs employees. We have further introduced, as has already been said, improvements in registration itself and also increased the number of registration places. So, it's just a few measures; not everyone, because if I listed them, would probably spend all the time discussing them. Once again, I will highlight why this has been thought out and why they need to be careful. In addition to the political reasons for the public opinion that we have in Slovenia, let me say just a few things. As early as October 19th, this was not long ago, when a wire fence was set up with Hungary, two thirds of our population or surveyors considered it unacceptable, as well as the use of the army. At that time, over 60% of respondents, i.e. Slovenians, indicated that the Slovenian government is good and well prepared for the refugee problem, or migration as you wish. On 26 October, the survey was re-examined and 70% supported and supported the deployment of the army to the border. Well, there was a different situation back then. And still at that time, 26. 10. Thus, the survey showed that most Slovenians believe that the government is well prepared. They also say that they are concerned, but they are not afraid. We speak of fear. So, most of them, 43% are concerned, they're only 12% afraid, and 41% aren't afraid at all. Most, so 63% understand this situation as a humanitarian and security problem, only 11% see it as a security issue alone. That says something, too. Placement of the fence on the southern border is opposed by 49% of the people on October 26th, so almost half of them oppose it. We are all aware that these measures are to be taken at the time and when necessary. And of course, these obvious chaos; this is all because of the allegations that there is chaos, and I think it is unfair for those operatives who worked in the field. And let me put it another way: field operatives, police, volunteers, firemen, the military won't do well if the government doesn't take care of it. This relationship between the policy and the operatives absolutely exists and denies all the other claims. The security of people and property and such a situation that we have is guaranteed by our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First, I have to say that I have some things to answer. For the first time today, many times, "the opposition is the loudest when the government is doing good." Then I heard the opposition was unstated. Then the question was what would I say about the government and the coalition as an opposition Member here, and most citizens and citizens think so. I have a very hard term, but today I will not say what this government and coalition deserves. She proved that she had the opportunity to do what she knows and how she acted in that situation until now. I am always that Member, including from the opposition, who I say very clearly that it is extremely important when it comes to important things in this country, that we step together, and I am absolutely the same conviction this time. But if anyone or those sitting in the coalition claim that the opposition is unstated, when all that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has brought to the table, we have confirmed, helped, also confirmed the Defence Act, where a two-thirds majority was needed, you speak of this as an unstated act of the opposition, and then I wonder if you really know what democracy is. Indeed, those who make such statements here in this House are very sad to be sitting here. Because first you must be aware that they are sitting and should be sitting in Parliament because parliamentary democracy is in place. And since I come from the congregation of Šentilj alone, it is right to say so, and I am sure that I know the situation very well. And Šentilj is one of the most burdened points in our country. And for the first time, I have to be very clear: in Shentil, in this collection centre, there are practically 2 thousand 500 refugees every day, and the moment the Austrians close us down in that part of the border, what happens at that point? What happens at that moment?Oh, my God! The new fugitives are coming, the fugitives can't come from us, and we have a pocket. And we already have it because we have constantly, 24 hours in practice, about 2,000,500 refugees, and that's what we have to think about, that's what we have to think about. Then go to Shentyl to ask people who live in a wider environment — entrepreneurs, craftsmen, merchants, innkeepers and so on — what economic damage has been caused them. Go ask them, and at least you will know – up to 70% have less traffic due to this migration crisis. So, dear colleagues, I ask the Government, does the Government have a plan for how those who have suffered and are still suffering economic damage will be compensated, or in what way will this damage be compensated? Secondly, I ask, how many migrants can Slovenia provide? An extremely important question, and I want a concrete answer. How long does it expect to stay in Slovenia, and where will this country accommodate them? And thirdly, I'm asking, what are the projected costs? Is the money reserved in the budget? How much money has the Government acquired from the EU for this purpose, or how much money does it expect? Because I have very little time, ladies and gentlemen; I am sure that this government must first take care of its own people. For more than a third of people on minimum wage. For that vast majority of pensioners and pensioners who have the lowest pensions they can't survive with, don't die. For that mass of 120 thousand and more who are unemployed in this country, and unemployment is rising again. Look at this data. Well, I'll say it again. First, we must take care of our own nation and share what we can, and only when this policy, this government and this coalition, will ensure that our own nation, so Slovenian people, can live with dignity in this country. This must be the primary task of anyone sitting here. Sharing what we don't have, what we're borrowing, there's no problem. Every day, millions of euros go to this refugee crisis. Where are we gonna get it? Who's gonna pay for it? That's taxpayer money, that's not the money we're sitting in here, and we're "smarting" here. And, of course, I'm taking this opportunity. To conclude, I must personally thank all those soldiers, the police and all those who are in these assembly centres and throughout the country for working on this matter as far as it works in this country, and I hope that the Government will be aware that once this matter is done – I hope that it will be done – and that it will be done, as well, in an appropriate financial way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much! Dear colleagues and colleagues! A well-respected House of Ministers! First of all, I would like to touch on one thing that went through the debate, namely that in fact the opposition or the motioners of this meeting are disturbing the National Assembly, when we are discussing that the debate is irrelevant. And I think it's good to discuss this. It is good to discuss, above all, that citizens and citizens feel safe to say that those who are paid to do so are discussing the subject. That's right. And somehow we don't want to hear the word chaos. It was last week, because perhaps some ministers have already been informed about this, in Slovenia on a visit to Šentilj, a senior German politician is not a minister, but he is the deputy head of the largest parliamentary group in the Bundestag. Later we met him at lunch and he said that word — chaos that he was in Shentil. And he said he hoped things would normalize. That's why I've been on the board for the last time, but I'm not dramatic: the pictures we sent to the world weren't the best. But I believe our police had things under control. And when I talk about being unprepared, that's also what's written in the reference itself. Look, I'm not going to be dramatic about this, because today let's talk about what our readiness is going to be for the next few months. But this moment in Slovenia lacks police officers. That's why they're canceled, they're canceling football games. That's a great message. But what did we do? It was only yesterday that we adopted a law in the National Assembly that allowed our police team to grow. In order to help the police 14 days ago, we passed the Defence Act more than 14 days ago, which is not yet in force. And I just want to say this, which I have pointed out several times: all of this could really be in stock, but it doesn't have to be made public at all. You don't even have to make it public. However, I think that we Members are responsible enough to accept this in such a way. These projections are correct, Slovenia is essentially transiting this moment. In fact, we are a transit country, organizing transportation from Dobova to Šentilj. Now, pay attention, 'cause this is where I get a little stopped and my opinions are being fucked. For this transport neither in European legislation nor in Slovenian legislation, in order for me to know, the accompanying legislation or the legal basis which would allow this. It's not. Where is the legal basis for someone who comes without documents to our country to take him to another part of Slovenia, to another part of the country? And many times we hear, "the silent trails are to Croatia", but we are the extended deadline of these routes, so to speak. Organized by smugglers, however, these people come to Croatia and are on train compositions and buses. This is not Schengen, this is totally something else; the Schengen has precise rules and here the terminology is very important. In view of the messages mainly from Germany, now that negotiations between the parties to the coalition are under way, this breach of the Schengen Agreement is likely to be over very soon. And the key question to which we have to get an answer today is how the Republic of Slovenia will act in this case when this act will be played by the Schengen side, for the first time, Greece – but Greece is already "out" in this story – and, further, Slovenia, too. I'm sure it won't be possible for us to just arrange transportation to Shentily. You say that "we will step up measures", said the Prime Minister of the Government. As a member of the National Assembly, I would like to find out somehow what these measures are; whether they are secret measures, I will understand. However, if there are measures that could also appease the public, please, with a word per day in this case. For Austria, in speaking of this, Austria must by no means be allowed to fence against Slovenia, we must by no means allow this to happen. This means that we're on the whole other side, which means that we're somehow being fenced again between those countries that we've once secededed from, and that actually means a kind of disaster for us. Further, I would like to talk a little bit about the nonconsistency of the policy, which has been traced through various comments, particularly as regards the fence or technical means, technical barriers and, of course, with regard to Croatia. As for Croatia, do I have a question for the Minister or for the Secretary of State, after that Brussels Summit, has Croatia’s attitude towards the Republic of Slovenia changed, particularly in terms of whether they announce and register the number of migrants? That this relationship changed, wrong information came in last week. The Secretary of State, if I am not mistaken, was a press release by the Government or published at the Slovenian Press Agency, that this relationship has changed, that it is better, you, Madam Minister, said it is not so. And I wonder what the reality is today? Is this relationship whether they're communicating these numbers, working with us or not? [[…]] Next up, the fence. Now tell me; the media know more than the MPs of the National Assembly, or we have the feeling that there is more than a minister. But the fence yes or the fence no? Furthermore, if you have decided to fence, how is the concept of the fence set itself? Rumors from the media are — 15 kilometers to the left of the border crossing, 15 kilometers to the right of the border crossing. And I'm wondering, how's the plotting of parcels, agricultural land going? How do you coordinate these conversations with the owners? We need to start this today if we want to have fences set in a month. I would also like to say more about Schengen: Greece is not really a serious country. It has completely disrupted the concept of the Schengen Agreement or the Schengen area. And the arrival of foreign and Slovenian police officers at our southern border is said to be an extremely positive signal at the border with Croatia, ladies and gentlemen. Because they seem to be aware of the concept that the Schengen is not on Karavanka, which is a disaster for us, but on the southern border. Because of this, let us take a serious approach here; I myself agree to protect the border not by means of technical means of obstruction, however — by means of a fence. And we help these foreign cops who come here, even with a fence, if necessary. So other countries are aware of where to squeeze, where this Schengen border is, where it actually exists. I'd like to talk to you about the signals we're giving. Germany sends clear signals, as I said before, that this game is over. For example, here we could see an agreement between the Bavarian CSU and the German CDU Angela Merkel. So the Bavarians and the CDU agreed on how to proceed. And today, the talks are at the level of the entire coalition. However, believe that Angela Merkel will not previously give in to the Bavarian CSU, will not risk this long-standing 70-year coalition in relation to socialists in the government, social Democrats. And they have adopted this common position in which they have determined to strengthen the border with Austria; but what does this mean? This means that this border is actually strengthened by so-called points where more police will be present where registrations will take place, and from there people will also return to the countries from which they come. So, Germany's sending out clear signals. And Slovenia must also start sending signals with amended asylum legislation, with other means, either at the southern border or in any way, that we are ready. Once again, we must by no means allow the Schengen border to become our northern border to become the southern border. And I also ask here for answers regarding the fence and the relationship with Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, your word. Get Mr. Matjaž German ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all of you who are here, especially to the Council of Ministers! The title of this point, which we are considering today, is the Proposal for a Recommendation to the RS Government on Uncontrollable Situations. That word immediately stabbed me as soon as I took this material into my hands and saw the word "irresistible" situation. How can we say that things are uncontrollable if, on the other hand, we know what is really going on? We know how much praise we have heard to the police, the Civil Protection, the military, the humanitarian organizations, the border municipalities and the citizens living there, that all this flow of refugees was informed from our southern border to the northern border in Austria, that there were no major problems to praise the police, these people on the ground. I think that the word "irresistible" is deceiving and unrealistic. At the same time, when we commend all of our soldiers and those I have mentioned — humanitarian workers, civil protection and so on — we call for the resignation of three ministers. I'm not getting it together again. Ministers aren't good when they don't do well by their subordinates. But if their subordinates are doing well, then the ministers are doing well. Then I don't understand why we should step down. Therefore, I think it is also appropriate that representatives of our government who are responsible for this, as they have done so far, and I believe they are doing well. I also trust their plans for the future when the situation is likely to get worse. Slovenia, if I too stop at the border, Slovenia has the Schengen border and it is right to protect it with all our efforts, but other countries are also helping us to do so. Because it's not just our border. It is, as it is said, the Schengen border and must therefore be protected by other EU members. And it seems to me that the call that has already been made to help us protect this limit has been made, and I hope that we will get even more help than we have done so far, even more than has already been promised, that we will continue to be able to successfully protect this limit when the flow increases, as is expected. If I am still at this border, I was struck by Mr Tonin's comment that Greece should be excluded from the Schengen border. I think we should do the opposite in order to make every effort of the European Union and anyone who can do anything in this area to further strengthen the Schengen border. I think that this effort would be very welcome and that it might also produce fruit if they were persistent, as the European Union has been persistent when it pressured Greece with all these financial matters, when the European Union has solved the Greek financial crisis and succeeded in taking the measures proposed by the European Union. And I think that if the European Union were to be united here, and that we were all working in this direction, Greece would probably be able to become a Schengen state in the sense that the refugee flow would then stop in the rest of the European Union. More efforts should also be made to work with Turkey to stop refugees in Turkey, so that this flow does not go as far as we hope it will go. I fear that this will be the case, but I hope that the country will be in line with these tasks and that the consent of the European Union will also be here; as our Prime Minister, Cerar, has said, "no country will be able to get away from this refugee crisis alone." I am deeply in agreement with him in this regard, and I really think that Slovenia should continue to make every effort to convince the members of the European Union to work together and that not everyone here would act in such a way as to move only around his own threshold, because that is not going to be a solution. I would conclude by saying that I was encouraged by the thought of Mr Horvath, the Ambassador of Horvath, who said, "It is essential that we listen". It also seems crucial to me that we hear each other and then work together, which is good for our citizens, and also for our refugees, and we must not forget them, and we must continue to behave as humanely as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Lord Matjaž the German, your word. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for a lovely evening, all of it. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Exceptional circumstances require exceptional acts. The United Nations Refugee Agency has today announced that in the next four months, we say this from November to February, up to 5,000 people are expected to enter the European Union daily, which means around 600,000 people. When we were in the months, I will say, early, late spring and early summer, saving the German, English, American, French banks in Greece, the leaders of European countries met almost daily in Brussels. Today, when we face one of the greatest humanitarian crises, at least we remember, or at least postwar times, it is in some way very difficult to establish dialogue at all. It was said earlier that the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, had called on countries not to talk through each other, but to each other. This, however, is said by the gentleman, who has indeed had to be asked — both the President of the Government and the President of the Republic — to convene a summit between the European Union and countries from the Balkans, those countries which I believe are probably the least guilty of what is happening in North Africa or the Middle East. These are those countries, in some way carrying the burden of transit countries leading refugees to Austria, Germany or even northerly to Sweden. Sweden is the country that some conservative parties have mentioned mainly in terms of leadership – namely, the Prime Minister is the Social Democrat – as I will say, incorrect leadership, but we forget that this crisis was not caused by Sweden, but perhaps by someone else. It is 11 years since Romano Prodi is no longer a leader of the European Union and what we nostalgia reminds us of those days were those years when Slovenia entered the European Union. These are the days when Europeans were in some way at the forefront, not capital, where democracy was at the forefront, not totalitarianism, the totalitarianism of capital that we know today. My appeal may be a bit of a grave, but, as I said in the introduction, exceptional circumstances require exceptional action and Europe will have to take a step against extraordinary action. And I think that the Republic of Slovenia, together with the other countries, can, with all legitimacy, claim responsibility at the future European summit. The responsibility of those who put capital at the forefront, as I said before, and forget about the European and the European community, which has in some way allowed us to live in peace for 70 years. Gentlemen must leave. Those who can't solve these problems have to leave. It is difficult to claim the responsibility of the United States of America or other world powers that have led to the exhaustion of these ends of the world and later this shift of people from despair. However, we can claim the responsibility of those Europeans who actually dictate the pace in terms of losing the identity of the European Union, in particular in terms of solidarity, assistance. We see what's happening on this road. The European Union is no longer what it was and must be conquered again. These European values need to be strengthened again. Also to question the role of Nate; when we attack, we are all for when we defend ourselves, and NATO is not from anywhere. At that time we are left to ourselves, with knowledge, and here I appeal to the Slovenian public and Slovenian politicians that we become only Slovenian Slovenians to the greatest ally. Unfortunately, that is true, but we must first draw and protect our country, of course with a humanitarian sermon, but in particular protect Europe in some way and what Europe means. Integration is welcome, but it must always be reasonable and within its capabilities. To solve problems in relation to Turkey, to solve problems in relation to the Middle East and to North Africa, this is the role that the European Union must play more actively, and unfortunately I do not see this good will in the leaders, and therefore I wonder what benefit this game is playing. Is it really human, European, or is it just capital? We need to set new priorities, and Slovenia has this right – and I am pleased that the Prime Minister is also with us today, so that he can hear it too – we have a responsibility to demand responsibility from those who are responsible. A game of words I hope to get to the right ears. The Law on General People's Defence and Social Self-Protection; this is what colleague Janko Weber has also proposed on behalf of Social Democrats, in some way to knock on our conscience, on those grounds that in some way we are aware that what we Slovenians have gathered over the centuries, after which we longed for, this is our country, peace within the European Union, must not be lost, and this is perhaps one of those proposals that strengthens also, I will say, the Slovenian identity. The Vienna Declaration was signed last weekend; 17 countries signed it, saving the Syrian crisis. I hope that's not the only problem. The problem is the whole of North Africa and the attitude of Western countries towards those who feel exploited and exploited. I therefore hope that there will be, in particular, some kind of solidarity and courage for the European Union to stand on its own feet and that there will no longer be just a thumb of those who are greater, that I do not even name them. However, I would like my colleagues here from the United Left to be present today in today's conversation, because the Slovenians have problems or we cannot avoid them that I will not be misunderstood, and we must not allow those who prevent our people from being human beings, talking about humanitarian workers, about health workers, about police officers and soldiers, not being deprived of reasonable assistance, and not preventing the referendum from being the most reasonable thing in the given circumstances – it is said that we are helping those who help. This is our duty and our responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Lord Jean-Mahnič, here you are. Your word is. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Let us imagine that in 2003, when Slovenia is not yet a member of the European Union, when it is Schengen between Austria and Slovenia, and that I or any of you take some tens of thousands of euros, some of the refugees have this money and that we are going illegally across this border. When the Austrian authorities get us, we say Germany, Germany, Germany, Germany, we want to go there. What would happen? Would you let us through? Would they arrest us or bring us back? And this is happening in Slovenia daily, 150 thousand people have already crossed the border in this way. If that had happened then, I believe the reactions would have been different. The devil took a joke, and I think it's time to abandon political correctness and say bob beans. 65 refugees came to Slovenia, and all the rest are economic migrants. For me, the fugitive is the one who escapes from the country where there is danger to the first safe country; all that remains is when he searches and walks around with a list of what kind of ratings he will receive, these are economic migrants. And we should close the border and let only those who have visas – which we know among these, we know well – go to Slovenia, those who apply for asylum and those who have travel documents with them. And who's even a fugitive? Here we get the people of Afghanistan, Kosovo, Montenegro, Albania, Iran, Pakistan What kind of wars are there, what dangers are there? And then these people get protection at the expense of those poor Syrians who really need it. And it's not true that everything is so pink; ask the mayors, ask the MPs, the police. A lot of people have knives with them, ask Mayor Zreč, they had axes with them, they cut down the Natura 2000 area. When they get to the center, some people don't even want to change because they have money everywhere, they take clothes for themselves, women and children, and they don't even let them get dressed. What kind of people is this culture? These people come from environments where it's normal not to put criminals in jail, but, until the death of a stone, where it's normal for women to have no rights, not like we do when they have rights. The Lebanese authorities said that two of the hundreds of refugees were radical Islamists. See what is happening in Europe, Stockholm — the world’s first place after the rapes of migrants. See what happened in Norway – in the first four months of this year, 800 migrants, extreme Islamists, and crime were deported by about 27%. And this wave will not be understood because Bashar al-Assad has already announced general mobilisation in Syria and young men are fleeing because they do not want to fight. Let me just finish; there have been many indictees to train Turkish intelligence services by the leaders of these illegal migrants. Erdogan, who won the presidential elections, said 15 years ago: "Moshes are our soldiers, the domes are our helmets, the minarets are our bayonets, and the believers are our soldiers." We know how to set up mosques, I have nothing against moderate Islam, but radical Islamists are also coming to Europe. And we must do everything to prevent extreme radicalisation by radical Islam in Europe and to prevent the shering of Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, I hope you do as much as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič, your word. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Even after this wave, I cannot thank all the staff who are still involved in regulating this refugee-migrating flow. It's the police, the military, the Red Cross, Civil Protection, volunteer organizations, and everyone else. I would also like to point out here in particular because I know that they have made a special effort in view of the circumstances, representatives of Brežica Health House, Krško Health Home, who have really made every effort that this crisis has actually somehow been overcome in that biggest wave. However, I do not agree with some theory and a debate that if someone else were to manage this migratory flow, or if they had taken some measures before, we would simply not feel it. This is simply not true; when it reaches the limit of 140,000 people, we all need to know that the problem arises. We can have a barbed wire, we can have a 12-meter wall, but we still have a hundred thousand people ahead of this border. And that doesn't mean that these people are in a neighbouring country, because even if you have a barbed wire like the Hungarians, they don't have it completely on the border, they have it a little bit off the border, they're already in your territory, which means that this problem isn't solved yet. It has certain effects. I am the advocate of this fence in the extreme case, in extreme, I repeat it twice, but it does not have what some want to present. Those who are major advocates of the Hungarian border are forgetting something: that these refugees did not come to Dobovo, to Brežice, to Rigonce because the Hungarians have a border, but because they were brought there by buses, and did not drive them themselves, but they were transported by Croatia. So this is the reason that they avoided it; in fact it is somehow shown that the Hungarian fence is very effective, but believe me – if they come to that fence one day, there will also be a problem there, and on any fence. As regards Slovenia's ability to manage this flow, I think it has proved to be so far, but we need to know that no country has proved itself in this sense that people and the surrounding population would not notice it. We had or still have; Italy has problems, we know Lampedusa, Greece has problems, Hungary has problems, and it can have them again if they come to its fence. Spain has problems; Spain has two exclaves in Morocco that are fenced, and there people come to that fence and hang themselves on it and come, say, 300 or 400 a year over. In short, the goal is to continue to cross that fence, which is six metres high — those images look terrifying — and in fact their only intention is to step over there and actually enter the European Union with it. As far as Slovenian policy is concerned, it has actually turned out that some want to be in the middle of this crisis, when it is important that we have the Government to want this government to resign. I think it's unstated. Perhaps this session today is not as problematic as anyone, some are in favour, some are against it. The problem is, some calls are after the resignation. I ask you kindly, but in such circumstances, we cannot afford to have a country without a government. We are also witnessing some attempts to separate the work of the police, which everyone praises, and the armies of all these organizations that I have listed, which may be praised by someone with a fig in their pocket, and then to separate the work of the Government, and it is forgotten that what the Government is doing is actually manifesting through the work of the police – the work of the Red Cross may be a little less – and certainly civil protection and all the others organised by the Government through the police to manage this migratory flow. The other work of the Government is, in fact, foreign policy. The government has also proved to be successful in this regard. We've all seen a lot of difference before that mini-top and after the mini-top, because after that things actually started going well. There are still a lot of people coming, but I can tell you, given that I come from Brežica, we have also had an extraordinary meeting and I can tell you one conclusion that we have reached in Brežica. It reads: "The Municipality Council of Brežica notes that the direction of the refugee-migrating flow in the Brežica municipality is appropriate and that the situation in the municipality area is as normal safe for both citizens and tourists and other visitors to the municipality." We have found this in the congregation and have adopted this conclusion unanimously, all the saints of all the parties and all the newspapers. So I just don't agree to this rhetoric, "Yeah, you cops did good, but the government doesn't do good." Look, it's all connected, so it's simply not possible to separate here, except for certain political purposes. There was a lot of talk about this hate speech; here we have to highlight not only hate speech, but also some Huja speech. We have heard statements by relatively severe mayors of local municipalities, even such, "there's like war, here's chaos". See, such statements actually do harm to the economy. We have developed tourism there, and I don't know which tourist from one foreign country will go to Brežice if he reads in his newspaper such a statement that it's actually a war or that it's a war situation and that it's actually chaos, which means some uncontrollable situation. There was also a lot of talk about "let's close down." In this regard, too, it must be said that the closure of borders also harms the economy. This has been pointed out by our local entrepreneurs, they say, "Look, a closed border means less traffic, it means fewer customers, it means fewer tourists, it means economic damage". And the indications that let's filter out migrants and refugees, if that's as much possible when you have 10,000 people on the border, they're actually declassified, that's impossible. Either we close the border cleanly, and we drop one by one, only I don't know how the economy will work, or the relative boundaries will be open and they will go to Slovenia refugees and migrants. The statements about how simple this is are very unrealistic. So I don't criticize just one critic, I'll criticize the other. The tendency of some organizations to press charges against Slovenia if it does not treat refugees humanely enough is also completely depressed. I can say for myself — there were three other colleagues with me, we experienced the matter in the field, so we worked all night, helped the volunteers — my experience is that these people are well cared for in this context. It could be better, of course, there is always room, but it is a fact that they came across the green border, that they wanted to leave Slovenia as soon as possible, that they were not interested in staying at any accommodation centre and that they actually wanted only food, water and go on, and that was more than taken care of. I will say, too, I am joining the position, and the President of the Republic has expressed it today – we need to be careful, to respond to every situation properly, but not something in stock; I do not imagine that the fence would be placed in stock in the middle of the August, in the middle of the tourist season, because we all knew that the refugees would come. So, once again, praise for the actions so far, it is said, also to the government, as well as to urge everyone else not to make trouble where they are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Your Honor! Crisis situations and difficult situations are precisely the best indicators of the ability of those responsible in the given situation. If we look at things with micro and macro levels, it is clear. Those who are directly and still work directly in the field, the real army, the police, the various volunteers, the health workers, work virtually flawlessly, even with the latest atoms of power. If we look at the local level, we can say that this has responded in a crisis situation practically self-initiatively because the guidelines, recommendations, did not receive any proposals. We have also heard this from health workers, who have said that they have proposed to the Government what should be happening, not the other way around. There has also been a change in many things as far as legislation is concerned, even when congregations such as Brežice have already been on fire. In short, it is true that these congregations were practically self - organized at that time alone. But if we look at the government, it's clear; you're late. Previously, it was said, "many months ago we started prepping." Another coalition MP said, "We started in July." Let's at least make a deal at home when you started. But the fact is, you started too late. You've also been very unconstructive. We supported all your proposals – those two laws you just proposed, without some, I would say, demands. We're the only amendments we've tabled because we thought you'd be smart enough to at least support that at some point. Well, you didn't. You also changed your mind when you spoke, Prime Minister of the Government, about the so-called fences. First, the fence was almost a hate speech. Today we know you're talking almost about putting them up. I'm asking you to tell the public what's going on with the fences. Also tell me, please, for the sake of the police and the soldiers, what you will do to protect them. Some predict a strike and others wish to strike. I'm really asking for answers to these questions. Just one last sentence. You know, at times like this, the state needs a strong personality. And there's not enough opposition for that, it's not a coalition itself, it's a solid personality, and we're missing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, your word. Get Mrs. Jasna Vervega ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! Today we are actually talking about the global refugee crisis. But we are not just talking about the crisis in Slovenia. The process of moving the nations, I'd say, has been going on for some time. And in the first phase, when refugees, migrants, arrived in Slovenia, we were actually in a simple, simple way solving all problems or problems. Through the media, we monitored events that took place in Hungary. At that time, the Hungarian President, the Hungarian State, in fact, acted as it did and placed fences, wire fences, at a given time. In the first phase, we know exactly how the global, European and Slovenian public assessed the installation of these wire fences at the border in Hungary. Very, very negative. Since I was really getting a lot of information from the government or the leadership of the coalition – I was not a decision-maker, but I got a lot of information – I have to say that the government, the coalition here, played its part. At the moment, it decided on the measures given. And to report that they did not react in time is not correct and is not fair. However, I have already mentioned through the debate, on one occasion, that this was the decision of this government. Such an approach has also been decided by this government. We are aware that there are many refugees across Slovenian territory, and that we have great problems and that problems arise and will arise now that winter comes. But I am confident that our police, soldiers, civil protection, volunteers, representatives of the Red Cross, Karitas and so on, as well as public workers, will play an important role and will ensure first and foremost security for citizens and citizens. At the same time, we will not forget in Slovenia the humanitarian note, which we repeat and do all the time. It is true that within this crowd there is a different structure of people and that this different structure can also bring potential people who do not come to Europe with good intentions. There's probably something about people like that, and they're probably in this mass. But the procedures that are currently being carried out at the border probably cannot determine which of these masses of people may come to Europe with such intentions. Refugees, refugees have also made some such moves that we, our citizens, do not take. From arson, from the disposal of all kinds of equipment, from the cutting and from the burning, from the cold. It is true that the mayor of Zavreč spoke about this matter; I think the question is whether these people really carried axes with them, I doubt that they would carry axes for this purpose, so that they could cut down in the national park of the trees, so that they could then warm up in some way. Our President of the Government, I am sure that the true personality is able to lead these activities, regardless of the fact that there is no possibility of such a strong personality on the outside as my predecessor said before. It is important that he is able to negotiate and that, together with a team of people, in some way, he also decides, not voluntarily, collectively. And if he continues to do so, I am sure that this crisis will be resolved in an appropriate, good way for Slovenia in an acceptable and desirable way. Everyone has the right to express his opinion, and you, your respectable opposition colleagues, have said, I don't blame it, I don't blame it. It is right to address this issue, it is right to express your opinion, but now it is also necessary to take the role of this government, which has decided to react as it has decided. The obstacles, the wire fence, and so on, some have talked a lot. Technical measures to protect Slovenia will also be implemented by this government. For me, however, it is crucial that our diplomacy succeeds in convincing the European Union and the old members that Slovenia belongs to this type of country and that we will actually remain in the society we belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Vervega, you have the floor. I'm sorry, I believe too much of what's written. Here you go. You have the floor. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! In opening, let me say that I fully agree with the Minister of the Interior's assessment when he says that Slovenia is at the moment facing the biggest challenge so far. The same refugee issue also faces the whole of Europe and the European Union. However, in my debate, I will limit myself more or only to the situation at the largest exit point for refugees in Slovenia, this is in Šentil, which I have been monitoring since the beginning of this debate, from the start of the tent somewhere in early October to today. So, the Ministry of the Interior prepared the center about 14 days before the first major wave, that's thousands of people, 17. 10. and already very well coordinated the operation of all stakeholders. Let me mention the Office of Protection and Rescue, which runs the centre today, Maribor Police Station, NGOs, Red Cross, Karitas Maribor, Šentilj, Maribor Health House, firefighters, translators, municipality leadership. Everyone claims to operate from the beginning to the present in a coordinated manner, regardless of whether there are thousands of 500 people in the accommodation center, as there were today at 5 p.m., or 4 thousand 500, as there had been before. I cannot agree with the words spoken here yesterday about the unsustainable situation at the northern border, about the emergency situation at the northern border, "the police are not in control of the situation". That's not what Shantilla's for. Just as we heard today, we heard a cass in Shentyl. I don't know where that came from. Maybe it's that southern side of the Austrian border. Was there ever too much there, or was the situation irregular? Maybe. But it wasn't in this accommodation center. With my presence and active involvement in this centre, I can also say as a volunteer that the Government's actions have adapted to the needs, to the current needs of the accommodation centre, and to the needs of the local environment. The management of the congregation considers communication and the response of all institutions to be very good. And I'm going to read a statement, today's statement by the head of the municipal administration that she made for some media house. He says, "The government has taken on the migration wave in an orderly and correct manner." Let me mention some specific activities that are the result of the rapid action of the Government. Due to the closure of the old border crossing, access to the freeway was enabled. And from the Mond casino, it was reported that after the first few days of the refugee crisis and the worse traffic, the situation was normalized. The army unloaded police officers at the centre with its presence — between 80 and 50 soldiers there daily — thus increasing security and allowing for the normal functioning of all others present; there are still about 100 people who care for refugees daily. Following the action of the President of the Government and the mini summit of the EU-West Balkans, the situation at the entry points has improved, and the situation has increased slightly in the accommodation centre of the case, or the transition of migrants has increased or the pressure has increased to the accommodation centre itself. The Head of the municipality took the initiative to build an additional railway platform for the exit of refugees in the immediate vicinity of the accommodation centre, and with the intervention of the Minister of Interior, it was also built within 48 hours. At the crossing between the two border crossings, the approach to the realization of setting up tents for refugees who want to be as close as possible to the Austrian border as they can, cannot wait to stay in the accommodation centre, although they are repeatedly returning, at least at night to sleep in the heated tent. In the first place, the safety of the locals, then the humane attitude and the care of the refugees, is important to both the Government and the congregation’s leadership. Well, we'll take care of that in the future. The work at the care centre is extremely tiring, and once again I express my thanks and a gift to all those who participate in it. In the last three weeks, 110 000 refugees passed through the Schengen accommodation centre, nearly 90% of those who entered the country. Today around noon, I was with a team of Minister of Education at Rudolph Maister's Primary School in Shentyl and from the management of the school and some of the students I spoke to, I bring this message: "We understand what is going on, and regardless of whether they are refugees or economic migrants, there are people who want through Slovenia, and at this moment they need our help." They report that they help out as they can, collect clothes, other things, work at school, and parents do volunteer work. Education and all other activities are taking place normally and are currently most busy preparing for a Christmas concert in Graz. They report that they are healthy and rich for one greater experience, one great experience. Let me conclude with the key points of this meeting. The refugee crisis is a global issue, an EU issue and needs to be addressed through the cooperation of all countries, precisely at the root of the problem. It's not just our battle. The government with internal and external stepping-up measures acts proactively and adapts to the situation on the ground. Finally, the situation in all reception and accommodation centres is under control due to the extraordinary efforts and concerted action of all those involved, which is an operational consequence of the operation of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Over 150 thousand migrants and refugees have entered our country in the last three weeks. So far, in the first 14 days, we have spent more than 150 000 euros on transport from Dobova to Šentilj. Today, of course, this number is already substantial, significantly higher. The damage caused in the local environment is also not negligible and is greater from day to day. The mayors also point to this. I have also met with some of these crisis areas myself, and they have explained that the state does not want to tell them exactly who will be the person who will pay the costs that have been incurred or the damage that has been caused. The police, the military, and the volunteers are doing not only incredibly much at this time, but with superhuman efforts, and of course we must congratulate them and be grateful to them. However, the President of the State initially said that it was necessary to provide funds for the police and the military that these funds should be increased. Dear Mr President of the Government, of course we agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we have also proposed this to you, although none of the proposals, as you say, are good and, above all, not by your country. I personally think that this response was wrong and in the situation we are in is completely inappropriate. We have done nothing but propose certain measures to address this crisis. The problem is, you didn't start in the government when it was time. We have proposed measures in the Slovenian Democratic Party in the summer, and you waved your hand. At the joint meeting of the Defence Committee and the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, in particular the Minister of the Interior, as well as the Minister of Defence, who was present both in the closed and open session, did not respond to any specific question raised by the opposition. They didn't answer. They read what was written so in private, and then they repeated it in the open part of the session. The Interior Minister was only concerned with what she would call a fence, whether she would call a fence or give her a technical tool, because then she taught us that it was an extremely high professional issue and, of course, we must name this fence as a technical tool. This is what we have been dealing with, but there have been no answers to the questions specifically asked. And given that this is where the meeting is today, and since the President of the Government is with us, I would like to ask, Mr. President of the Government, as well as the Minister of the Interior, specifically to answer the following questions: How much has the migrant crisis cost us so far? How much did it cost us, citizens and citizens want to know, and what are the financial forecasts for this migrant crisis in advance, where are these funds that we will obviously have to provide? Mr President, you also said that all migrants would be screened for safety. This has been repeated several times by the Minister of the Interior. My colleagues already asked today, and we didn't get an answer, so I ask again – how many fingerprints were taken? If you don't know exactly, at least close to the number. The Director of Police, not in a closed session or in the open, had no idea about it. He couldn't answer that question, but I'm really interested in how many fingerprints you took. And last but not least, I wonder who's going to pay for the damage that's been done to the local communities so far? This is what the mayors and those who face this crisis in crisis areas daily want to know. I personally, if others have said so, visited Šentilj, I was in Zavrč, I spoke with some people from the congregation in the congregation of Cirkulana, and all these people agreed that the country did not do its job at the most important initial moments of the first wave, the first three days. This is not what we said in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but that is what those who faced this great, not only humanitarian, but in particular the security crisis on the face of the city. And that is why I would like to know how you, Mr President of the Government, are prepared in advance. This is particularly what those living in these crisis areas want to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Good-bye. Unfortunately, I only have three minutes to keep my colleagues from taking time, so I will try to be as clear as ever. So, the first issue, the state theory is that the country consists, for the first time, of territory determined by territory, secondly, citizens and citizens, and thirdly, of governance, that is, sovereignty in this area. We have two supporting elements in the establishment of a country that is: the form of government, and the fifth, the recognition of other countries in this country. Today, the question is whether we are masters of our own, whether we are exercising the full sovereignty of this country by procedure, by the laws we have adopted here, in this national assembly, and by international acts. My answer is no. First of all, five police officers in the tent, where today there are 2,000,500 refugees in Shentil, about whom you spoke, cannot control the situation. Secondly, migrants – I wonder which one of you was, say, an economic migrant, ever? It was me. I can tell you how they ran, Comrade Erjavec, procedures, like in the early 1990s, when I was able to start working in neighbouring Austria, then in one of the electronic development companies. First, I got a job with my employer, and on the basis of this contract, I got a job. I can never imagine, as colleague Mahnic said earlier, that I could just go across the border to join a group where some people would really need one refugee status, and I would just stick around and go. It is here that we do not perform, we are not masters of our own, the function of this country. Therefore, at the Schengen border itself must run: first, administrative procedure, secondly, security procedure, third time, sanitary procedure, fourth time, phytosanitary procedure, fifth time, if that refugee also has an animal with him, including veterinary procedure and so on. So we don't exercise sovereignty, we don't perform the functions of the state that are prescribed. Next time, it is not the problem of these migrations, these changes, I call them policies, they are not only the result of migrants, so all wars, civil wars in these countries, the problem of Islam is also inefficiency. Islam, as a sociologist, has an abnormally bad impact on the development of entrepreneurship and the economy. And in countries where they come from also those who want to be economic migrants, statistics are similar: 60% unemployment, I can say, explosive nativity, wages less than 100 euros and so on. So these people can be said to live in pre-industrial society. And if we think in Europe that they will bring you anything in the development of multiculturalism, we are wrong. Also practical examples from the last few days when BMW wanted to hire some of these refugees at its logistics new centre in Bavaria, it turns out, for the first time, that they lied about their education, that someone with Arabic would find it extremely difficult to stand up and learn German. This process will be lengthy, knowledge that is questionable and so on, so that I do not list working habits and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will now be very clear, I hope that no one will ever give me an enemy speech. We're ahead of a historic decision today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope we are aware of the time and place in which we live. I hope we are aware that there has been a change in geostrategic policies. I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that we are aware that refugees are weapons in one of these geostrategic policies. They're not responsible for their fates, not at least 20% of the people. I support all humanity, all efforts, but we have to be careful. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, the European way of life, the European standard that we have acquired in 100 years, including our ancestors, is not human rights, respected colleagues and colleagues. The European standard is the reward and result of respect for the first time, human rights, second time, Christian and Protestant ethics, which has brought about the development of entrepreneurship, third time, respect for market liberalisation, fourth time, the mass respect of the rule of law. These are the attributes that make Europe today not one side highly developed, it has a strongly respected social state, and let us not let that happen. That is why I stress, also to the President of the Government, who is with us, that he is aware of this, that he is aware of the third most important attribute of statehood, that is the exercise of sovereignty in the field marked by the State, that is the area of the border, and where its citizens and citizens live. And today we are ahead of an important decision. The history of the past 20 years shows that Europe has never done anything without the help of America; we had a mother from Srebrenica here six months ago, we could see the former war in the Balkans and we could see how we reacted at that time. We didn't do anything. For this reason, I stress once again: the European standard of living and the European way of life are not human rights. Our first right of Members and Members here is to safeguard the sovereignty of this country and to ensure the safety of our citizens and citizens and the exercise of functions at the borders, those laid down in laws and international acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Good evening. Greetings to the president, to the ministers, to the ministers! First of all, I would like to convey my message to those who are doing the controlling things that are uncontrollable for some of us here in the National Assembly and which are also why we have this meeting today. Therefore, praise goes to the police, the soldiers, the volunteers. And if I'm very specific, I had this opportunity and a great honour, unlike maybe some others who came to take more pictures and do this propaganda, I was a volunteer. I have the honour to thank and welcome a team of voluntary firefighters from Čepovan, representatives of the Red Cross of Nova Gorica and Piran, especially Simono Potočar from Adre, representatives of the 10th Battalion 1st Brigade of the Slovenian Army and a special police unit, I think she was from Kranj. So much for how things were unorganized or organised. I had the opportunity to feel and to see that things were not chaotic, that they were organized regardless of this vast crowd of people who were there. And I was in Dobova, I was in Brežice, and I had the opportunity to see the tents set up in front of Dobova, where the government made sure that this wave of refugees somehow moved away from this, I'll say, our local population would feel as little as possible, and from far as possible we looked at the Rigons as people were there. So I'm clear on the way things are going. All the people who came to Brežice or Dobo’s were screened, fingerprinted where and as far as possible, photographed, obtained a restraining order, had a medical check-up, received a meal. On the other hand, it was also taken care of by all workers and employees, it is said, from soldiers to policemen, that they had a warm meal, that they had warm tea, that they had refreshing drinks, and that they were actually all in protective equipment that we all wore afterwards. As far as these extreme conditions and the chaotic state are concerned, he is far from that. But it's true that if we look at this one, I'm going to say, the biblical exodus of this wave, 130, 150 thousand people, and that we're the only ones here who're going to start doing some kind of Schengen, I don't think it's real. The facts are clear. Like the Prime Minister of the Government at this summit, which was "produced" by the Slovenian Government and the Slovenian leadership, Europe is said to have put into effect. And here he is to congratulate him that he has done a great deal, I will say, a state gesture and also a firm gesture that Europe has woken up a little in this winter sleep and this one forgets about us. So this is where the congratulations go to Cerar and the team. Next thing you know, it's very important. Slovenia has limited resources and resources and must therefore behave accordingly. Why am I talking? Because it was clear that the measures were too small, disproportionate, but the measures were gradual and proportionate to the increase in the number of refugees, which is normal, as this was also likely to be financially facilitated. And if other procedures are to be carried out, it is normal to do so. Slovenia has actually suffered collateral damage to Europe. We need to be aware of that. Europe has remained like a goddess, an old tired mother who cannot react where she is supposed to, and I think that if not sooner or later, Slovenia will start again with the following procedures, which will preserve its sovereignty and independence. So we can't talk about these things. It is clear, however, that this is a humanitarian and security issue. And one more thing that's very important to me, which I think is important to say here. This internal policy of the Republic of Slovenia itself as such. So, this state-of-the-art thing, whether we have it or not. In such cases, I think that sometimes Slovenia does itself a bad favor, that sometimes we spit in a bowl where we don't have to, where we should stick together. Because if we look at the Croatian side, they were all together, and no matter what the measures were, they were all, and the media and everyone else were behind it. Furthermore, it must also be said that neither the police nor others have hidden any facts, saying so, have been publicly told and informed at regular meetings about all matters. Of this arson, which was so phenomenal, from being smaller places, from being two assaults with a knife and being stopped by police officers, but it was all public and no one was hiding. In all of this, we will look at what has been said by both the WTO and the UNHCR. I also had the opportunity to speak to foreign volunteers, from Hungary, where they praised the work of our police and our army, that they were extremely humane and extremely correct to these refugees, and to the Austrian and also the German and Italian, who were with us at the time, weren't they, Tillen? everyone has said that Slovenia responds extremely correctly to, as I said before, the capacity and what it has before it. And if we look at the fact that the Government has stepped up these measures and, in accordance with the situation on the ground, has proportionally enhanced or strengthened them, then we cannot say that the situation has not been under control, but I think that this has been done in one qualitative and rational way. And in terms of state-of-the-art, it must also be said that if we, among ourselves, do not create some compact unity within ourselves, not to give a referendum on whether the military can have this time-limited police authority, then we are really not mature to have our own country. And to conclude, the National Assembly, i.e. all of us, should act in the direction of reconciliation between citizens and citizens, not some kind of controversy and some extraordinary situation. Besides, I know that, now I have learned in this year that this is one such political game of plots and that it is also some background for preparing for some overthrow of the government or replacing the government, but I think this government is holding up well and just so forth, respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer. Here you go, Mrs. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear President of the Government, the distinguished Council of Ministers, Members and Members, I wish you a good evening! I'm not gonna say anything new that hasn't been told and nothing new that hasn't been seen. I'd like to tell everyone who's watching us maybe right now and they're listening to that things aren't as black and scary as they'd like to show us. The fact is that Slovenia is facing a severe migration and refugee crisis. That is why I do not understand the proposer of today's extraordinary meeting to request the resignation of three ministers and the President of the Government, when everyone should cooperate and contribute constructive proposals to solve problems that are different every day and need to be addressed on the ground daily. The media offers us several times a day to monitor the events, and I must say that despite the mass waves of refugees, all things are going on, guided, patient and humane. An important inter-ministerial organisation for the direction of the flow of migrant arrivals, the simultaneous functioning of the police, the military, civil protection, humanitarian organisations, volunteers, local communities and could also list, operate. Despite the unique challenge and the test of the country of Slovenia, the safety of our citizens is not at risk. We should thank all those who care for it only sincerely. The solution to problems can be seen from daily situations, so many things could not be planned in advance. One question arises to me – could we have intervened in the decisions of the neighbouring country when people were being sent into the mud and into the water in the dark? A migrant doctor’s interview went around the world as a thank you for being able to shower with us for a long time. The establishment of health care, initially at local level, then the assistance of doctors from other parts of Slovenia rejected claims that infectious diseases were spreading. On the contrary, the doctor at Brežica Hospital points out that migrants are in good condition, well dressed; they only cure general diseases or problems. It's taken care of by birth, if I recall, at the Ptuj Hospital. He was brought back to life and saved a baby. There's a military hospital planned. An agreement was reached on the transport of trains with a much more practical list of migrants. A new platform was created just outside the Šentil accommodation centre, allowing migrants to continue their journey to the desired land. Since yesterday, only 65 people have been asked for international protection. There is also foreign aid: beds, blankets, sleeping bags, protective equipment, medical devices. And finally, it's also taken care of by all those who are daily involved in helping migrants. They'll be vaccinated against the flu. It's already happening in Brežice. Employment through public works is promised to help. There are already 32 foreign police officers on the ground, we expect or think they may already be here – 20 police officers from the Czech Republic, 30 from Slovakia and 50 from Hungary. Let us help our people, the citizens of Slovenia in the fields, because migrants are there to cooperate more easily, with patience and with humanity and to look at all those who have come to seek peace and a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Erika Girl ready. Mr. Beznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Dear ones, who are still attending today’s session! Refugees or migrants, as we call them, who have also clapped across the borders of our country and are looking for a way to the heart of Europe, are only part of the wave that has clapped across the borders of the overloaded countries along the border with Syria and Iraq. They left their homes for one reason and were expected to do 500 million against the cause. It's simple logic that people want to protect their heads and that's why they run because in their homeland, there are those who want to blow their heads off. Permanent migration is and will be the reality of a global society, of which we are part, and much of the distinguished experts and institutions point out that there is no reason for alarm either in the world or in us. Therefore, it is likely that the only ones who can fear an uncertain future are the refugees themselves. Only as information – in recent years, the number of refugees or migrants has reached the highest number in the history of mankind, 232 million so to speak. Most of this figure, of course, is represented by economic migrants. The migratory wave is slowly calming down with us right now. The numbers confirm that. But we can't say the worst is already behind us. We can ask ourselves what winter will bring and what spring will bring. Of course, it would be wise for someone today to answer what the security risks were, are, and will be refugees for us. Let us consider whether we have also turned the refugee crisis into some kind of security issue. I think that because of the wave of migrants, we are no less safe than we have ever been before. However, I am convinced that Slovenian police officers, soldiers, humanitarian workers, all volunteers have undergone the migration crisis so far and therefore there is no reason to replace either the President of the Government or the ministers who run these departments, but they should be congratulated, of course, also their closest colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is Erika Deklava, to be prepared by Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers and, of course, to colleagues and colleagues! Today’s callers feel that the situation at the border is uncontrollable. Ambassador Vrtovec told the Prime Minister yesterday that he did not keep the public informed. The SDS is so constantly dramatic and tries to show an extraordinary state. Of course, it is not possible to agree with all of these evidences, since the facts speak otherwise. Slovenia manages the situation at the border. The Government shall always respond appropriately and step up measures in accordance with the situation. In his speech today, the President of the Republic of Slovenia also said that there are no security crises following him at this time. Comrade Vrtovec, he probably watches and listens only to his performances, otherwise he would have seen and heard the President of the Government very often and would have been informed of the situation in an up-to-date manner, like all of us. In addition to the SDS, our former colleague Dobovšek also signed under today's item. I hope that his presentation of the position was not only a lecture that was more appropriate for his students in college than for us, because I believe that this signature contributed today because it was thoroughly familiar in the field with the situations which, of course, are, according to his assessment, uncontrollable. I also believe that he has made a change, just as many SMC Members have done. For it is quite different when a person works there for 8, 12 hours, as my colleagues have done, and he is so well aware of the situation, and only then can he make a credible assessment of this situation and comment on it. Otherwise, if you go to some kind of transition, some residential area, and you just let the press know before that, you take a little picture, and then, like your colleague Eva Irgle, you comment. It's really different if you work there a lot of hours. Then you really get to know the situation, and you can talk to a lot of people, and then those words in the National Assembly sound completely different. Of course, each individual depends on what he or she wants to see and what he or she wants to tell the general public. I continue to look forward and hope that colleague Dobovšek will share this field experience where he has seen an uncontrollable situation with us. Our information and experience are different. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to make a decision about criticism, which is also kind of a description of the opposition's works and tasks. The problem is that Slovenia is now facing the greatest self-sustainment test. He's facing a major humanitarian crisis. And at that time, people expect only and only a state-of-the-art attitude. Slovenia effectively protects national borders, ensures the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, ensures the safety of refugees and provides humanitarian assistance. At the joint meeting of the Committee on Defence and the Commission on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, we were able to hear that cooperation between institutions is good, that the security system works well, that cooperation with the military is extremely good, that there are risks and minor incidents, but everything within the limits is normal in such a large number of people that the uncontrolled wave of refugees from Croatia is to calm down and that the situation in reception and accommodation centres in the Republic of Slovenia is, from a health point of view, appropriate. Let me focus a little more on the health aspect, because we have proven on the ground that we are capable of providing quality care, and the people of Slovenia have not been deprived. Representatives of the Ministry of Health visited reception and accommodation centres. They were familiar with the organization of work and were dealing with possible problems. Guidelines have been issued to ensure urgent health care for migrants and clarifications of implementation, instructions for the treatment of communicable diseases, instructions for keeping records of fevered medicinal products and medical devices for the purpose of ensuring the health care of migrants. Particular attention has been paid to the protection of healthcare professionals and the population against communicable and other diseases. However, the Health Inspectorate found that all recommendations are implemented in accordance with the capabilities. The World Health Organization said that this moment is difficult to help because we are too well organized ourselves. So much for uncontrollable conditions. Because obviously we see things differently, I wanted to read a message from a volunteer I found on the social network today, and I won't because there's not enough time, and I don't think it makes much sense, because we're obviously convinced of our own and because we obviously see things differently. The circumstances he describes are far from chaotic and uncontrollable. The fact is, for some we will always be too little humanitarian, we will always be too radical for others. Since I've been in politics, I've learned never to do right for everyone. We can only be theatrical and negative, even self-inflicted, but we can admit to the government that he is doing extremely well in this extremely difficult situation. We can support it, of course, each one of us decides for himself. I'll never stand for the motions for a sitting myself. Dear colleagues from the opposition, you are knocking on the open door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! This way towards the end of the debate we can see that we are all repeating ourselves. Those who believe that the situation in the country is uncontrollable, i.e. those who propose this extraordinary meeting, and we who believe that all these sacrificing people are in control of the situation. I believe that we are all aware together that our country is now facing a multi-thousand-strong crowd of refugees who, through our territory, want to move forward to the promised land of Germany and then to the north. As borders and our territory arrive, we monitor the weary faces of children, mothers, elderly and sick people. It's hard for me because I can't give them a safe home in their country. I am aware that people run from violence, from threats, from countries, from their warm homes to leave behind what they have created and created there. Believe me, it's not easy, and they certainly don't like it. I come from a border area where my fellow citizens and fellow citizens address me. They ask me to act as politicians. They tell me that at this refugee wave, we must not fall into the trap of political competition, who will be more populist. Our task is to save as much humane and patient as possible in Slovenia, in cooperation with neighbouring countries, people who are in this refugee wave. Police officers, firefighters, soldiers, volunteers, medical personnel, the Karitas humanitarian organisation, the Red Cross and others are in control of the situation. All of them have demonstrated their greatness in the professional and human approach to providing refugees. That is why we thank everyone here and now, especially everyone, for this truly self - sacrificing work. It is true that it has not turned out as we would like at first, but now we must admit that, through cooperation with the authorities of neighbouring countries, matters have been handled. We also had a lot against the military helping in the field. Today we see how welcome she is. I don't know who could handle it and make our refugees so many, so many hot meals and everything they bring them. However, we must also acknowledge that Slovenia alone will not be able to solve the refugee wave itself, nor can it solve the refugee crisis of the wider international space, so the crisis should also be resolved in this way. As a member of the European Union, I believe that the Member States of the European Union should find common solutions. Our President of the Government has already been mentioned here, who has said clearly and loudly in the European Parliament what we really want from Europe and that we want their maximum assistance. A casual solution to the problem has never produced fruit. Here today we have also heard from the President of the State of Borut Pahor, who believes that we need a national plan for a transitional resolution of the refugee and migration crisis, which must arise with common strength, and must finally receive the broadest possible political support. I hope we can make this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My opinion is already known to those on the board. This meeting is unnecessary and, above all, illegal. Nor is it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but the coalition has decided, for the sake of loving peace, to have this meeting, and has simply decided to go into a new parliamentary practice and somehow allow the opposition's foreign instruments to express its dissatisfaction and attempts to change power instead of using instruments as we know them – a constructive non-trust and interpolation. But they have already seen that they fail and that it is better to turn around and exploit the refugee crisis in order to raise political points. The material they sent for today's session is actually quite funny. On three pages, they figure out what we need to talk about for 7 hours and 40 minutes, and then we have on 38 pages a photocopy of newspaper members, like we can't read and we don't know what's going on. And that's why I tried and went to see the newspaper articles, of course not yours, because yours are clearly focused on a clear goal, but one other article that also speaks about public opinion and what people think about these sessions that we have here. And if I go to look, one says, "What's really dangerous?"and then they note: The call will be the first measurement of power since the start of the refugee crisis, so it will show the potential of the crisis and how much it can be used to fight for power in Slovenia, which is increasingly exacerbated by it." The following speaks about our geopoliticals and speaks and notes the following: "Except for Slovenian politics. In her universe, she still deals with herself and her nicknames, which all of us have grown over our heads a long time ago." So the last thing I'm going to do is not kill you with 38 pages, but they're significant, and it says, "In the country, it's a perfectly normal situation. Refugee flows are framed in normal terms, more than 99 per cent of citizens do not feel a false security crisis, in which they have completely eased the brakes of judgment at the top of the policy." I hope that, of course, tells you what the main goal is. This is all bullshit. And I will tell you this: Government, if it has a plan, of course it will not tell you, us, here out loud, and clearly encourage further unrest. That would be irresponsible of the government. The government must tell the last moment when it has already been carried out, if and when it has information that it will do anything necessary. As for the situation; I apologize, today I see that it is a day of praise, of who was at a point and who helped and so on. If that's part of the pyre, then fine, O.K., fine. And I also think that we have enough Minister of Defence to tell us what the compositions and reserves are and what is actually in our army, not that we have some lectures here, what we should actually have, and what security assessments are. For that, I hope we don't really need such a session. Figure out how much money we spent today instead of giving it up for something else. And where will the money go? For God's sake, it's going to come out of the budget and out of Europe, as far as we can get it, and stop discovering hot water! And I hope that as little money as possible is needed. And you prefer to use what you are doing today within the framework of the rules of procedure, but I will teach you again, even though you know very well – either interpellation or constructive distrust. Stop "shitting" him! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Well, this last one's a little hard to counter, but it doesn't matter. While we are repeating ourselves, I must say that I am very pleased that today the Members of the Modern Centre Party have, through their experience on the ground, said that the situation on the ground is manageable for us to manage it. I was in Shentyl myself when I wondered if there was something so bad in our country, and the soldier and the policeman told me, "We're doing great, it's really great that we're together. And thank God we're together." But I would like here today, because we have already repeated so much on the subject of this refugee crisis, to focus on one other issue related to this crisis, on the refugee problem, and to which the President of the Republic, who has gained his greater dimension when this larger number of migrants, namely the hate speech, has come. In particular, in my opinion, we owe it to Members to resist the enemy speech, because we as public officials are responsible for preventing and eliminating discrimination in accordance with many international instruments, because hate speech is only one form of discrimination. I think that we should send out of Parliament calls here that we are all together, each individual, each of us, and also the whole country, in particular the national authorities and again, Members bear even greater responsibility for resisting the enemy speech, even at a time when the whole country is, we can say, a test. [[…]] What is this hate speech anyway? We talk about some notions a lot, and we all feel like O.K., because we know what we're talking about. I'd like to read here that maybe even those citizens who look at us can hear us. The hate speech is in line with the recommendation of the Council of Europe – an organization that is responsible for the protection of human rights, of which Slovenia is also a member – "any expression which promotes, promotes or excuses racial hatred, hatred of foreigners, anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred based on intolerance, aggressive nationalism or ethnocentrism, discrimination and hostility against minorities, migrants or people of foreign descent". Our Slovenian law does not know this concept of hate speech, but in the Penal Code, Article 297 provides for the public promotion or dissemination of hatred, violence or intolerance based on national, racial, religious, ethnic and other personal circumstances and the act is done in a manner that may endanger or disturb public order and peace, or by the use of threats, insults, insults and so on. I would also like to warn, perhaps, that someone else does not know that the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace also defines offences that can be defined as hostile acts. That is, violent and daring behavior – I will now quote this part because it is very interesting – "He who dares or encourages to fight..." then another part, "... whether he behaves in a bold, violent, rude, offensive or similar way, is punished with a fine of 60 to..." Aja, here are the Tolars defined, O.K. The Globe is, let us leave, then there are other provisions and then there are other acts: indecent conduct, damage to official inscription, writing by objects, destruction of state symbols, and all of them, if these acts are done to promote ethnic, racial, sexual, ethnic, religious, political intolerance or intolerance in relation to sexual orientation, the perpetrator is also punished with a fine. It may not be a bad thing to mention that Members have immunity for crimes committed in the bodies of the National Assembly and in plenary session, but we do not have it for offences. It might be useful if someone found out. And acting under the Penal Code is the responsibility of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is also the competent police, who act here as a criminal body. We can either all file a criminal complaint with the police or inform them of the offence if we detect it. We can all call an anonymous phone number published by the police: 080-1200. Members can do that, too. I therefore believe that action must be taken against the enemy's speech, because even if we remain silent and do not resist it, it seems as if we are anchoring. Why did I stress the Members in particular? Certainly this has not been done by dear colleagues from the SDS, since, as a colleague from the United Left has already pointed out, they have not been long since been able to read from the proposal to convene this meeting, "other particular danger is posed by extremist individuals and groups involved in cruel proceedings and murders". Please. Where's your evidence for something like that? So you deliberately promote intolerance and fear! Or a statement by Member Tonin, who may also limit the justification of hatred against foreigners, "that our citizens would not feel that it is better taken care of refugees than it is for Slovenian citizens". We have to be very careful, in my opinion, what kind of message we give to the public, because we are those state officials, who are also in some way representing the country and who are giving citizens a message about what is right, what is right, what is right and what is wrong and what is not hate speech. Colleagues and colleagues, all the people of Slovenia who are still watching this, I think it is important to mention something else. Our relationship with our fellowman returns as a reflection. So what we give, we get back. Just as we will face refugees or migrants, so they will face us. If we sow hatred, intolerance, we will receive it, or we will reap it. Perhaps it is time to remember what Europe has done for the last 500 years in Africa, America, Asia and so on, for example. Maybe we're paying the bill now, but it's up to us, or as far as we're concerned, we'll be able to take in people who run from persecution, war, violence, so they need help. We are finally committed to this by international law. And we receive these people to the best of our ability and help them in Slovenia. And this is the credit of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! When we all went to the elections a year and a half ago, no one likely calculated with this migratory crisis, which threatens part of Europe, and consequently our country. That this meeting did not go away and empty today, the first indicator is that even this afternoon the President of the Government, the Foreign Minister, the Interior Minister and the Defence Minister are with us, and at the beginning of this meeting the President of the State spoke. I think this is one first indication that we are talking about a serious topic and the problems our country is facing. I would not like to comment on any individual's discussion. Many times today, we have been emotional toward people coming to the Republic of Slovenia. I'm also appalled when I'm watching the world, and let me tell you, somewhere I've read how many children die in a second in the world because of lack of food. Surely there is no Slovenian who would not help these children, of course if they could. It is also a big question of how capable we are in this crisis that has hit us. I just remember when we actively started talking about this already in August; then there was a much smaller occupation, and much more ridicule to talk about unrealistic things. Things were back then. They knew they'd catch up with us. I don't think it's necessary to be a great expert, especially because we have intelligence services, Owl, and I think these people really need to know what's gonna happen in a week, a month or a half. When we began to face this crisis, it was my personal opinion that it was unreasonable for me to have bad cooperation with the neighbours. I think it was the first time the presidents of both governments spoke through the media. Of course, the Croatian Prime Minister with Croatian media and our President with Slovenian media. Poor cooperation, this is seen in the distant, internal and defence ministers. And, of course, disregarding the opposition's warnings; the word of the opposition has been spoken so many times today, and I think again, I repeat that this meeting is also well intentioned to discuss the crisis in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government, Foreign Minister, Interior Minister, Defence Minister! For every hour of bad work, we'll pay the tax in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I think my colleague has already noticed that we have quite a high profile here today, all those who must be. Just as little as the answer to that, because they knew they weren't here. I think the Prime Minister just jumped out for a while, but we have all those who are called here to be. Okay, we lost the proposer somewhere along the way, that's true. However, the representatives of the proposers are here, the rest of them. So he still keeps it here. If we move on. I'm going to go down a little bit on those statements when Slovenia is supposed to reject aid. That's an interesting statement. Given that there are several mechanisms that we can turn to, say, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Internal Security Fund, the Refugee Migrants Fund, these are some mechanisms that exist, which are already somehow looking for this support, cash. In addition, given that the situation here is slightly different and that Europe is actually emerging, it is developing and growing and it is again faced with some new difficult situations, different instruments are also emerging. Accordingly, Slovenia also expects, even in the light of the budget plan for next year, that certain mechanisms will be further developed, and as I know, even after all, our finance minister is working actively with initiatives, and from there we will also draw. If I had been denied this aid, I probably wouldn't be here right now with eight Austrian police officers, five German, twenty-five Lithuanian, twenty-five Estonian, saying, on this day there are 58 people from foreign countries, that's what we're saying in particular when we're talking about cops. Earlier here, colleague Ferlug also mentioned many others; when we were looking at volunteers, we met Hungarians, we also met some, say, they came from Berlin, one van, they brought water, then we met Italians who brought shoes, clothes and so on. Many have also brought diapers and the like, all that it takes to equip the fugitives. To see if we are alone in this, as is often said, we are completely left to ourselves and so on; perhaps on some level, but that also changes. So they come from different places at volunteer level. At the level of aid, it is said from the police point of view, they also come from different places, but there are official routes here, it takes a little longer to organise things, but they are here, we are working on and there will be more. If we look at the political level within the country, I think things are working. After all, the fact that there are no major incidents and problems on the ground is also the result of the operation of this government, in addition to all those units of police officers, soldiers, volunteers, civil protection and so on, including the Red Cross and others who are working very hard to do so. If we go one step further, we are still somewhere alone, and yet I think we are not so alone anymore, this is the European parquet. But after all, with this international activity provided by the Foreign Minister, through the talks of the Interior Minister, including the Minister of Defence, as well as what Dr Cerar has already reported to us about the Mini Summit and so on, things are moving there, and also, among other things, although sometimes someone does not want to hear it, also on the basis of Slovenian initiatives. We are one of the members, I think we are also heard, given that initiatives are heard and are taking place. It is also true that, given how the structure is set up, given that it is a large system, the European Union is turning slower than it would have wanted, but it is turning. An interesting aspect that I would like to highlight is the aspect of communication and how it is then reflected somehow in public or in areas where we currently have the most migrants. If we look at reporting or the relationship of local authorities in Brežice or Šentilj, as we sort of follow up, we see: in one area, maybe a little more chaos is reported and so on and so on and how the problems are, but given that I've been down and seen things work, somehow I can't agree with that. We also have a colleague, Zorčič, who is down there daily monitoring matters in Brežice and regularly reports to us what the situation is, there are no such extreme situations. And on the other side of Šentilj, where they say things work somehow, they control them, they arrange the platform, they fix the accommodations, and the care and assistance work. And then we get the situation when we get information from Shentyl that there were some problems with the economy, if you look at that casino Mond, but on Sunday there was a normal visit and things are going on. On the other hand, we hear a slightly different story in Brežice. The fact is that — like in the economic, economic or financial crisis — there is a great effect on what is happening, even the inertia that creates a psychological effect on people if certain things are potentialized and made out of them by some extravagance, even though it is not. Here it was said, I think Comrade Mahnic mentioned some axes, but I don't know what, given that when migrants arrive before they come to the center, they're safely examined, taken away from them, if they have a knife, if they have an axe, they'd probably take it away from them, I suppose. [[…]] Given the fact that we've seen this work, I find it difficult to agree, and it's hard to imagine. I think the team there is really thorough, even respectful, what it looked like. I don't know. I don't know. If we look at the theory and practice that we should be better prepared, otherwise prepared and so forth It's similar to saying: first you're getting ready to swim, they explain how you're going to swim, then you're going to swim. [[…]] And the difference is that then, what happens in practice, you have to react quickly every day and adapt to the fact that in practice things are running out the way they have to. It's similar here. We've been, like, once in a similar situation, but still. Everything that could have been prepared has been prepared, scenarios have been drawn up and responds accordingly. If there are errors, the relatively rapid response is also ensured. And it also shows the effectiveness of someone, such as the Government, which deals with management, is that where you notice that there are some problems, even then in due course it is quickly resolved and that then things run out the way they have to. When I'm often here, I have a little bit of a pimple back, but I still have to say it. [[…]] By this logic, that things could be done substantially sooner or later; each thing comes at its own time, doing it according to the plan. After all, we wouldn't have made it on our own three months before if this team hadn't been here. Things are going according to their inertia, according to plan, and that's how they're done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. All I can see is that SMC is still discussing, and everyone else has checked out. Today we are talking about government measures that are not supposed to be sufficient, they would not be appropriate, the government is chaos and so on. But when it comes to measures, you need to be aware of something; that it does not only matter what measures they are, but also the time component. It is said when these measures are taken and when they are implemented. If we make one case. Let's say you cut yourself in the hand, it can get so complicated, you get so confused, you get so confused, and the final result of that can also be that you have to amputate your hand. But we all agree not to amputate our entire hands every time we cut ourselves. So, for every thing, time has to be ripe. And in this sense, our government has been hastening measures very carefully, prudently and at the right time, which is important. We can't close borders in the middle of the tourist season, for example, so I don't know what the signal is. Every measure must be implemented in a timely and thoughtful manner, and that is what this government is doing and all praise in this regard, and that is also what our people feel and respect. But what worries me, among other things, is that Members, some more, others less, we don't know how to resist creating one extraordinary situation, we don't know or can't resist trying to make people who come across the border appear less valuable, dangerous, I don't know, "So what kind of people are these?"in the sense that they dress themselves first, then only their children and women. [[…]] I was also on the border as a volunteer, and I must say that my experience is not like that. I worked for two hours on that spot where I put clothes and shoes out, and I didn't see that a man wouldn't take care of his family, just the opposite. They took very good care of the children and their wives. I don't know what kind of people they are. I think they're very much like us. But if that was the case, it is people who come from other backgrounds who have a different culture. But this does not make them any worse, and because of this — we in particular — we must not spread any fear or even hatred of them because it is absolutely wrong. While I was at the border, I was able to make sure that things were very much under control, that coordination was at a very high level. The police are coordinating everything very well, as far as they and the military are concerned. Civil protection worked great with us as volunteers. On this occasion, I would like to commend all volunteers. Although there were a lot of us, we weren't in the way. Everyone was doing very well. No one showed any sign of fatigue. In short, when I was down there, I was thrilled at how these people really helped out with one such passion, and it was nice to be there. And when I came back, I had a good feeling about how things were going down there, and about our people. So it saddens me every time I read on independent media or those who are the only ones who speak the truth, very different stories. Let me say that organisation and coordination are going very well. One example; of course, when we prepared people to be put on the train, they all joined us. And in this crowd, a police officer noticed that a boy had lost consciousness. And immediately the police made a corridor for two Red Cross members to come after the boy, take him to the infirmary, and that was very organized. In short, there's no sense that there's any chaos, that anything doesn't go right, I didn't get it that night. And this is due to the fact that obviously the Government is doing well and the things that are mentioned in this reference are not for what purpose they are written there. However, it is necessary to be aware, of course, that the situation is serious and can also get worse if things happen that we hope will not happen. Above all, it will not happen if the European Union steps together and finally begins to resolve this problem as it should, where it is necessary and, of course, for us. I think that this government is aware of this, that it is doing well, that it is doing well, that it is also willing to take more stringent measures, or those measures that none of us, in my opinion, wants, if we want to have Europe as we have it now. So that the boundaries are transitory, that we are free, that human life, human rights mean something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Mrs Anita Koleša has the floor to prepare Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Nicely greeted. Thank you very much for the words, Mr President, and of course a nice greeting to all representatives of the Government, especially to ministers and ministers, and of course to colleagues and colleagues who are still here! I would very much like to share with you some pleasant experiences, because there is no way that we are explaining to you now how we have done, what we have done in these crisis situations, to explain to you how we have been there, whether nice or bad, or whether we have been doing some pierar to ourselves. No, we really wanted to see how things worked, maybe to help local authorities and pass on certain information, or to pass this information on to us, and I have to say that I was extremely surprised. For example, in Shentil, where I met the head of this centre, and I thought, when I went back, where some of them got such a great leader, such a good leader of Civil Protection, such an intimate, organized, calm man who, by the way, carried out his tasks, informed us about a lot of things, how logistics works, how soldiers operate, how police work, how they participate, of course he also told us about cooperation with Austrians, and he always stressed that without cooperation, there is no way. And it was probably the point that we could do a lot of things with our hand in hand. Of course, we also met with the mayor, and I must say that his desire to make a stop in Shentil was so sincere, and so in the care of his citizens, I must say that I was very happy when I heard that this had happened. Strangely enough, he didn't ask us anything about pardoning the damage to the economy. Throughout his life, he emphasized that what they do is done with an open heart and that they want things to come into normal waters, which, of course, is logical, because this is what everyone who lives in these boundary places or places wants. Because I don't have time to tell you much more about what it means to be extremely positive, especially that such organisation on the ground is not possible without some responsible and competent people, and these competent people have been set up by the government. [[…]] Because we are an orderly country with effective and well-organised leadership, police, soldiers, health workers, humanitarian workers can be successful. They proved themselves in these responsible times. And as is often invisible to the eyes, perhaps this time it remains invisible to some that this government has mastered our greatest self-sustainment test and still controls it in a way that keeps citizens and citizens safe and safe for those who pass through our country. And this, of course, gives us some confidence that we will find good solutions for the future with it, that is, with our country. Finally, we might recall another truth that our colleague Cecilia Wikström from our European sister ALDE party, who wrote about this so-called refugee crisis, said that when you build a 3m wall, someone will be able to produce a 4-meter ladder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u91	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Given that the debate is nearing its end, I think there are some very important things to say. Today we have heard that there is chaos in Slovenia, that there is an uncontrollable situation, that there is a systematic violation of the Schengen, that the government is reckless, that the opposition is also operating on the proposals of the president of one of the opposition parties, which the government has already carried out a long time ago. All of this does not match the actual situation on the ground, nor does it actually match the measures taken and taken by the Government, which we have also been able to say to the public at this time. Of course, when the conditions come and the matter is so far away, we will also inform the public of all the measures being taken. In fact, it is also strange, as has been observed today on this side of the National Assembly, that both myself and the Minister of the Interior, then also Defence Minister Andrejo Katič and also Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac, on the one hand, are invited to resign, and on the other hand, we are thanked for the presence at this meeting and we are in fact admitting that our presence is important. I think it's a very unusual paradox that throws this entire session today into an extremely strange light. I also note that, in fact, the opposition is inventing some things, such as rejecting aid, without stating whose help we have rejected and when we have rejected it. However, I must say that I am very surprised, as has been the case with the media lately, that the president of one of the opposition parties has repeatedly called on the public to come to Slovenia to Frontex, that is to say to come to the border between Slovenia and Croatia. I'm very surprised by that statement. Otherwise, I don't know what it's like to attribute it to either total misunderstanding or maybe some higher combination and some higher target. Slovenia can, of course, call Frontex in accordance with European regulation, but it is necessary to be aware of what this means. Frontex is a group of the European Union that comes when a signal that something is wrong in a given country is chaos. I believe that this is not something that matters are still under control in Slovenia, and that is also what Europe recognises. If Frontex came to the internal border between Slovenia and Croatia, this would in fact mean that Frontex, which is intended for the effective management of the external border of the European Union, which Slovenia does not have at all, would establish registration centres for us, our border would be selected here in our territory would actually be classified as migrants. In short, after these calls by the opposition and with Frontex's arrival, a refugee centre for Europe would be established in Slovenia, irrespective of the fact that we do not have an external border of the European Union, that Croatia has an external border of the European Union. We have only an external Schengen border, which, in view of the circumstances and the massive arrival of migrants, we do, however, protect with great effort as possible. As it is said, protecting the Schengen border is our national interest and we will do everything to keep it that way. I do not agree with this that Frontex will come to the border between Slovenia and Croatia, which I also made clear to the European Commissioner when he visited us, and this also helped our President, who was then so extremely successful at the mini summit of the European Union-Western Balkans, where the current interest of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. bilateral assistance at the request of Slovenia, as assistance in controlling or protecting the border with Croatia, has clearly come to the fore. Frontex, however, should go where the problem arises, where migrants enter the European Union for the first time, and where economic migrants return. However, Slovenia has shown to the world by its conduct that we can protect the Schengen border, that we are doing this to the best of our ability, so we are also asking trained police units, which are necessary when it comes to controlling the crowds, in short, under the rules of crowd control. Slovenia is the first one to actually try to slow down, stop, and thus take care not only of the security of our country, but also of the security of the Member States of the European Union Since, after all, this is the essence of the Schengen, and here the contribution of our government and our country is extremely great, which the European Commission also recognises. Claiming that it is chaos in Slovenia – I must repeat it again because this is happening over and over again through today’s debate – this is, in fact, as I have already said in the beginning, a lack of confidence in our operational services on the ground; because if Slovenia were not prepared, if the Slovenian government did not ensure optimum readiness in view of the situation, this would first show up on the ground, but that is not true. In the field of services, the situation is extremely well managed by the police, the Slovenian Armed Forces, Civil Protection, volunteers, humanitarian workers, health services, in short, all those who ensure that matters are handled as much as possible. The Government is also doing well; measures have been taken to control migration flows, because we are fully aware of what mass arrival of people into our country means, or the transition of massive numbers of people across our country for national security. Both the MNZ and the police have done their job extremely well, registration procedures are under way, security checks are under way, not least, this is an undertaking after the Schengen, there has been no dispersal. It is necessary to understand that the police are carrying out procedures legally, but here it is necessary to determine whether they are asylum seekers, i.e. those who are under the jurisdiction of the MNZ, or whether they are persons who illegally cross the border and do not ask for asylum but also here it is necessary to stress that those persons who do not apply for asylum but cannot be returned to their countries of origin because they come from dangerous areas because they come from war zones, these persons are given a detention decision and can freely move around the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And of course, today there have been reports that Slovenia is helping transport. Of course, what's the alternative? But the alternative is to let these people disperse. I don't think anyone would agree with this, especially given the fact that these people don't want to stay with us and actually want to come to the target countries at all costs, and then they want to ask for asylum. This is an actual situation and must be derived from it. In short, the police act professionally and legally, and ultimately they also act proportionately and also humanely. I think it is extremely important, and this is thanks to our Prime Minister of the Government, who has also been able to show other countries in Brussels that Slovenia needs police units from other countries. These police officers who will come to us will also be a messenger who will take us to Europe and also a wider voice, that Slovenia is doing well with these people, that our police are a highly professional organisation and that they do not in short hold a statement in some foreign media that have been extremely criminal. And here I must say that some representatives of the opposition have also contributed to the fact that the image of Slovenia in the world is worse than it actually is, and I think this is unacceptable. I must also point out that the police are extremely good at working with the Slovenian Army, which is very helpful to the police and is also very burdensome, and even if it imposes new legislation, it will be further burdensome with new tasks. The Slovenian army is doing an extremely good job on the ground and I can say that, even after reporting from the field, it is effective in contributing to the wider protection of the state border. I think that we can be united, that this is a European problem, and there is no way to overlook all the political efforts that are being made both in the country and outside the country, which makes it easier to work on the ground, because, finally, it is the massive arrival of the number of people who are actually using our country for transit. There is something else that I think is important to stress, given that I think we've covered everything else today. Many things have been said, I think the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can be reassured that there is no chaos in Slovenia, there is no uncontrollable situation. The police statement has been mentioned, so I will stop here for a few moments, especially because I do not want this to be interpreted on the basis of this police statement to the detriment of Slovenian police, and I do not want this to contribute to the least that confidence in the Slovenian police would be reduced because this trust is justified in the past and is now. Mrs Bratušek told me that I, as Minister, should say that I support the sentence. She probably didn't find that quote anywhere in the media. They must have taken me in awkward terms. This is not in any way a statement that would be appropriate for the Minister of the Interior or for any minister at all. However, I have said that the police's demands are legitimate and that the unfulfilled commitment of the past governments must be realised because, in my sincere belief, it is imperative that we do this or find a way to come up with a solution that will remedy the fact that the past governments have not taken care of the overall regulation of police status, but have only taken care of the police. The Government of Mira Cerar – given that the police statement is important in the context of the migration crisis – is the first government in the last ten or more years to follow the Minister of Home Affairs’ request or appeal, so my demands that the police need at least sufficient resources from the beginning of the financial year to be able to operate normally and that police and police officers are safe in their tasks and that we actually do everything we can to start improving the conditions of their work. Ambassador Bratusek also said that it is not enough to just talk, but it is also necessary to do something. I quote, "what to do." I don't think that's right because it makes an impression that nothing has been done so far. That's not true. Our government is in an unenviable position in view of the fact that we are solving the shortages of past governments, because no one before the government of Mira Cerar has stopped the stagnation that our police have been subjected to, which is why we are facing a great deal of human, material and financial malnutrition today, which is all the more important in view of the current tasks that our police are carrying out in the management of migration flows. Only with the arrival of the Government of Mir Cerar has an active recruitment policy started to be implemented with calls for police officers. We also started this year with the continued implementation of the senior police programme. I'm very happy to say that Tacen is back in business. In fact, Tacen is the heart of the police, and I think it is also a great joy for the Director-General of Police to raise the flag in Tacno in the morning, while in the mandates of the past governments I think there was a deathlike silence in Tacno. I think that this is a great achievement that we can also attribute to the government right now. As Minister, I, too, managed to convince the Government in a very short time that measures to rehabilitate the police are necessary. The government followed this. Of course, I am obliged by law to provide conditions for the work of the police, but of course the Government is the one who admits that security is important, that it is important for our people, that it is a priority, and we have also shown it by budget. In fact, in one short year, we were able to provide an additional €87 million for our police, including the funds set out in the budget. I think that this is a very important step and a good way forward for the better future of Slovenian police, which is also a personal pleasure to me, because, finally, this is about the security of people. Of course, from the point of view of the sentence that is being predicted, it is not just the budget, but it is necessary to regulate the status of a police officer in an integrated manner. The police are involved in the career and salary system of public servants, which, of course, are not entirely sufficient to meet the needs of the police. We have also joined this at the beginning of the mandate. We have prepared amendments to the Law on the organisation and work of the police, with which we want to improve the status of police officers, and we are also solving part of the sentence requirements already. The second part, however, will try to resolve it within the framework of the common pay system. I was also told today that I must stop the union strike. Here I must say that the Minister of the Interior cannot and must not, because, last but not least, the obstruction of union activity is not allowed, in fact it is a criminal offence. However, we have already proposed some solutions, which, like some of the commitments of past governments, concern other professional groups, so we depend to some extent on the negotiations led by the Ministry of Public Administration, which is the custodian of the single pay system. In short, we can say that the Government has shown determination and awareness of the importance of the police, and I believe that the Government will also pay attention in future to working conditions and awards, which has been neglected in the past. I will also answer the Member of the Gardener, who is no longer among us. He wondered what Slovenia and Croatia were like after the European Union-Western Balkans Summit. The Secretary of State, Chief of State, has already said so, and so have I, but it was probably not properly understood. Information has improved in the sense that dispersion at the green border is no longer, so uncontrolled release of people and a journey towards our borders. The information has improved in terms of the announcement that migrants are coming, i.e. the hour when they are coming and the number, but it is not possible to negotiate either in terms of quotas, nor in terms of number, nor in terms of time dynamics, so that everything still depends on the arrangements with Austria. Croatia is still a so-called carrier and it is not possible to manage migration flows, even though we are both Slovenia, Austria and Croatia part of one chain. In short, if I finish. Slovenia is part of Europe, unfortunately at this point it is impossible to pull out of this geographical position as we have it, and transfer it to another place where there is no migration route, that is a fact. Migration flows are a fact, travels through the Western Balkans and unfortunately the problem has also reached Slovenia. I think that Slovenia is very effective in dealing with this, but, as the President of the Government has already said, we need to be prudent, to deal effectively with the situation, to respect the Schengen rules, of course, in the constraints that the situation poses to us as such. Well, it's a mass incursion. We must follow the rules, as Austria has taken into account, closely monitor the situation that is changing daily, which we are also doing, and respond in a timely manner with measures, including these technical obstacles, which are so much talk about. Last but not least, these technical barriers are provided for in the State Border Control Act, and there is a good basis in the Schengen Code. However, everything is also, as the President of the Government has said, with the aim of protecting the state, which is, last but not least, the main role of the police, which is and remains the guardian of the state border. In short, the Government responds, responds appropriately, step-up and above all sober. The police, as a body within the Ministry, also operate according to the Ministry's guidelines and in accordance with the Government's conclusions. I think that our police have proved to be extremely successful, as the whole of Europe sees, so that I don't think any spread of fear is necessary at this point, any more is harmful. But even more damaging is the rise of power in a given situation, because I think it harms people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u93	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representatives of the Government and the representative of the Magi proposer are also given the floor. Branko Grimes. First of all, the representative of the Government, Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greetings to all, honourable Members and Members, President of the Government, Minister of the Interior, colleague of the Minister of the Interior and colleague of the Minister of Foreign Affairs! The protection of borders and internal security is the responsibility of the police and the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. And today's observations that refugees are being accepted at the border to be directed to reception centres, then to accommodation centres, that they are not scattered everywhere in Slovenia, but that they are being provided in centres with the help of Civil Protection and many volunteers, are proof that the police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are doing their job very well. I know that I will repeat what I will say next, because I have the feeling that I am almost every day in Parliament and that I am talking over and over and over again the same information, but it is necessary to say, because it does not appear that everyone is not fully seated in the head either. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia has been involved since the beginning in solving the migration crisis through two systems – one is the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the other is the Slovenian Army. The Authority of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue immediately joined the rescue, in particular in cooperation with volunteers and other humanitarian organisations, in organising the so-called humanitarian assistance to migrants. With a larger wave of migrants and refugees, the Civil Protection Headquarters has been activated and the entire Civil Protection System has been activated, and in this way, it is also possible to involve all volunteers involved in the Civil Protection System in accordance with all national plans and, of course, the logistical support provided by the Slovenian Armed Forces under Article 37, paragraph 3 of the Defence Act. We have further found that we need more, and we have also activated the fourth paragraph of Article 37 of the Defence Act, so that for the first time in the history of Slovenia, the Slovenian Army has been involved in the resolution of the migration crisis to help the police. That was a lot of talk and a lot of talk. On a daily basis, if I say a few numbers, he is involved in supporting the Ministry of the Interior from 600 to 800 members and members of the Slovenian Army after the 12-hour tournament. From 50 to 80 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces also offer the cooperation of Civil Protection. In doing so, I do not mention all those who are behind to ensure that all these bodies work well in logistics and with all the other commands. More than 500 members of the Civil Protection Service are also included daily. Here I mean all those who are included in the Civil Protection Headquarters – from firefighters, the Red Cross, Karitas, voluntary humanitarian organizations, who are also essentially coordinating the system on the ground. Today, not many questions have been raised, more than some claims. It was pointed out by former Ambassador Irgle's colleague that we did not give any answers, but her colleague Janez Janša also said that we had given some answers. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, we have also presented our long-term actions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that, in the long term, it will not be possible to withstand the voluntary system. Thus, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, you can also monitor this in the media, employ unemployed persons and people through public works who will participate and assist in the work of reception and accommodation centres. Also, if it is necessary to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act; according to the assessment of the Ministry of the Interior, the Government and you, honourable Members and Members, we will also engage in a larger number of the Slovenian Army, if necessary, we will also engage the contractual reserve. It was a matter of resources. Indeed, the Ministry of Defence will never be satisfied with the amount of resources allocated to us, but this government budget for 2016 is the first budget to stop the nominal trend of falling defence expenditure in all years since 2010. [[…]] And also by the Ministry of Finance, a directive has been issued to record all costs incurred in the resolution of the migration crisis and the 2016 budget will also identify the means by which we will then be able to cover these costs that arise from the resolution of the migrant crisis. The question was raised and I did not fully understand, by Ambassador Bah Žibert, what we will do in the context of the cooperation of soldiers and police officers to protect them. She probably meant with the protective equipment. Both the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces have all the necessary protective equipment for the tasks they perform. As you can monitor on television, in the media, all members of Civil Protection, volunteers and volunteers also have protective equipment. And those who have volunteered can also experience how this works and what protective equipment you have at your disposal. If it is not possible to represent so much what Civil Protection is doing, there are many more questions about what the Slovenian Army is doing. And I would say that the Slovenian Armed Forces carry out the following key tasks: Carrying out the transport of police officers and material resources, providing assistance in wider border protection by means of technical means, patrols and observation centres, providing assistance in the physical deep protection of the state border, providing assistance in the wider observation of the border by helicopters, providing logistical support with available material means, such as disinfection and the like. Due to the needs, we have extended the rules of operation of the Slovenian Armed Forces so that the Slovenian Armed Forces can also assist the police in transporting migrants, can assist the police in protecting collection centres and can also assist the police in the implementation of the migrant escort. We have also identified the new bearing role of both brigades because we are providing effective assistance to the police. The area of the 1st Brigade of the Slovenian Armed Forces is the area of responsibility of the Novo Mesto Police Administration, where it is highlighted as the focus of action mainly the area of Brežic, Rigoncev and Dobov. The area of operation of the 72nd Brigade of the Slovenian Armed Forces is the area of responsibility of the Police Administrations Maribor, Celje, Murska Sobota with a centre of gravity in Šentilje and Gornji Radgoni. And given that the Slovenian Armed Forces, with Civil Protection in the past, have, unfortunately, participated in the remediation of the consequences of natural disasters and have developed a good system of cooperation between the Slovenian Army and Civil Protection, of course, this first task has to be adapted, including with regard to cooperation with the police. I must say that the Slovenian Armed Forces, in support of the police, used a similar way of working, which has also been adapted to the specificities of police work. As the most positive experience recognised in the Mors, especially in the Slovenian Army, it has been shown that this is a positive attitude of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police towards joint action, which is also reflected in the successful implementation of the tasks on the ground. And I think it's worth all the praise, even if cooperation between the military and the police were ever needed in the future. It has been made clear by the Member that the poor cooperation of the Minister of Interior and Defence has been seen far away. Perhaps a little more in jest or indeed; the distinguished colleague of the Minister of the Interior, I don't mind if we embrace each other more than once, and so visually reveal our good cooperation. Finally, let me take this opportunity only to make use of this opportunity, on my behalf, on behalf of the Minister of the Interior, of the Foreign Minister, who we have been most on the wallpaper today, and especially on behalf of — unless he comes forward by himself — the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I thank the entire team of ministries to all volunteers, to all humanitarian workers operating on the ground, to all those involved in the Civil Protection, in particular to all the police and members of the Slovenian Army. I believe that today's debate has shown that they really participate well in the field, not only at a very low level, but also in the coordination of these tasks so that they can participate directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u95	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I only hope that after this evening no one in Slovenia will say that we are all the same. For we have now seen the face of something that I would say, as if we came from two worlds. What's the best difference, however, is that one of the SMC's Members, who said before, "Smart knows when he can cut himself in the hand, that there are no worst consequences." No, buddy, the smart guy knows you need to put up gloves with wire, and then you don't cut anything. That's the difference between you and us. But in running the country, it can have very, very big consequences and, by the way, it costs a lot. That's the difference we're talking about today. Then you come up with the Home Secretary saying, "We have to follow the rules, just like Austria." It's a literal quote. Do you know what the problem is? I keep saying we're talking like two worlds. In Europe, right now, no one in the executive branch of government is complying with their own rules and, as it were, everyone in enforcement policy, from here up to Germany, should sit, criminally accused of abuse of the situation and for failure to implement and negligence at work and anything else, if that is the case. That's the problem that I don't even know if we're not listening to or if we really don't understand each other. [[…]] Why did this crisis arise in Europe? People just took a chance. They were also encouraged. I've already explained that. With the secret services, with the money of some countries, with the false promises they received, they even turned the spots on Turkish televisions and so on. That's why they started moving. And then Europe gave stupid signals in style, and everybody come and we'll take it all. And after half a million people came along, they all began to hold on to their heads. That's what the problem is at the starting point. But the problem is that Europe does not respect its own rules. The rule of law in Europe is dead because of irresponsible politicians who do not know why they are there. What is the European Union's general problem? Always, since World War II, all democratic Europe, when something was wrong, said: 'Uncle Sam, look, this one is looking at me badly.' And Uncle Sam came, and he took those two two trips, and there was peace. And this time, Uncle Sam, because he happens to have this leadership right now, he says "nothing" and he pulls himself back. And Europe has been left alone. And what's even worse at this point, too – of course, because such questions are very big – there's nothing NATO can do. Then it only works on the basis of full consent. Turkey is a NATO member of the Union, so there is no consensus on any of these matters. Very simple logic. Unless there's some very strange trade going on, which I don't think it will. And this is why once a problem is that Europe as a whole must behave in a state-of-the-art and respect its legal order. Just that, nothing else. But Europe is not doing this and that is why Slovenia should do it more consistently. That's what we keep telling you — it's stupid to look back on what someone else is saying right now, it's stupid to wait for someone else to do. It should be prepared in advance, as I said in that parable. You should put gloves on before you cut yourself. Why have we been talking about the fence for months now? Not because you'd want it so bad, but because we know how it would work. It would have worked preventively. Here was a bunch of nonsense, sorry, now it's said how the fences aren't effective, and that's what you're talking about. Then you're surprised if Parliament doesn't have a reputation. If we knew what you were talking about, we would know that only the construction of a fence between Turkey and Greece, which, by the way, no one talks about because it is on the land border, has reduced the crossings on the ground by more than 90%. Bulgarian for 95%. Hungary, which has been defended and promoted in advance, has reduced the number of crossings so much that in the first couple of weeks, if my memory does not deceive me, only 34 refugees, in total, recorded. Then tell me how effective the fences are. Not for the fence itself. Because it's a signal, ladies and gentlemen. A signal that then directs those who want somewhere else to look for another way to look for another way. And that's why you avoid all the problems, all the costs, and the use of some more serious means of actual violence, which I hope no one wants. The fence is just preventing this from happening. And that's what we've been telling you all along. And that's why it was time. Just as it was time for more resources to be devoted, if it is not possible to deploy as quickly as possible, at least for technical equipment and the rest that our police and our military need. We have come here to this Parliament, two months now, with conclusions that have demanded it. You confirmed them, but nothing happened; because we have incompetent ministers, especially the interior minister, if you want me to be once direct, who is certainly the weakest member of this government because he has no control over anything. And that's the problem. And don't say it's a battle for power. We didn't say we wanted to take over right now because we think we're that good. No, we have asked the Prime Minister to replace those who obviously have not done their job well enough because it is in his favour, this government and, most importantly, the whole of Slovenia. That's why we suggested it. By the way, this should be self-evident in normal society. There was a lot to talk about again, that's very interesting in terms of the opening words, about the hate speech. The way you try to silence data, even if you want to, through the United Nations, everything else that is cited as a fact and this is classified as an hate speech, it is tragic, but it is not just a Slovenian specialty. This is the moment all over Europe. Because some politicians do not control their work and are trying to mask their own incompetence with media power, and because they are consciously violating the rules they have set themselves. And by the way, nobody has a mandate to do that. For the third time, I repeat what should be a fundamental message from here to Brussels. No policy in Europe, nor theoretically, has a mandate to permit systematic breaches of international treaties and laws, thereby exposing citizens to danger, economic crisis and everything that brings about the illegal release of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants into Europe, contrary to the rules of the Schengen and other legal rules of the European Union and the Member States. Pika. Neither the state nor the state community has the right to expose its citizens or to reduce prosperity or actual danger, or to impose on them, on behalf of certain high ideals, a situation in which even the fundamental values of the community are at risk, as well as at the final stage of integrity and even the life of an individual. Earlier it was said, yes to whom you fear, and in this context it was even said, yes, that this is an hate speech, because somewhere we wrote that we should also watch out for who is coming, because there is no control at all. Schengen is dead, Schengen is not working. How many fingerprints did you take? I don't know how long I've been asking that, but I still haven't got an answer. Nothing or almost nothing. We should all do it. Every time. And compare to the bases. Then it would be different. This, by the way, is one of the requirements of Schengen. That this can be qualified as an hate speech You know, if a true ignorant person did it, but if a judge does it First, an hate speech according to European standards, I would expect you all to know them in this House, there are two elements. [[…]] [[…]] One is the dehumanization of a group or an individual, and the other is the justification for why it was necessary or necessary to do so. These are two elements required for hate speech, but the rest is slander or something else. But the real hate speech is what I told you; you can check the practice of the European Court of Human Rights or ask which top lawyer in this area. Well, it was said, because it is written that there are also individuals who may be the problem of being involved in crimes and that this is an hate speech because we wrote it down. Oh, come on, for God's sake, at least take one class for the ruling coalition to learn how to look at the Internet, if you don't read any messages from your own services or official labels, or this. Then we would know that by now he has been arrested in the target countries, the first to go from here to migrants, to dozens of people because of proven cooperation either in terrorist organisations or even direct participation in some crime; and you have material evidence for it, and the images on the Internet as much as you want, just go look. You have as many images as you want of any individual holding a cut-off girl's head in his hand, both for the whales, and cutting himself with the gun poses, and then the same person out there in Western Europe, in Germany as a rule, and he grumbles and is a loving dad and look, our welcome neighbor, etc. That's what happens when you abandon your own legal rules, and that's what happens. And don't think it doesn't jeopardize it. In Germany there were now two cases, if you don't know, in just a week when they prevented attempts at terrorist acts, including the use of explosives. One was similar in the Republic of Serbia, but one country continued down in Bosnia. There, by the way, they filled the entire hotel with explosives, and they wanted to throw a whole quarter of them in the air. Well, of course you won't read much about it. But what's interesting when you talk about hate speech, when you say that security can also be compromised, is the facts I'm going to give you now, from the United Nations website. [[…]] In Sweden, the number of rapes, in particular mass rapes, increased from practically nothing to the most brutal rapes of a thousand 473%. Not for 14, for a thousand 473%. And then someone will convince me that it has nothing to do with it. That's where he came in, this delusional "multicult humanism" to the extreme. One case; when a poor teenage girl who came to help them was raped by her end in a wheelchair and she was disabled for the rest of her life, they asked the government, "Are you going to expel these people now", and those who were directly proven to be involved in the crime said, "No, that would be racist, we are really bound by the law, but we will not do it, and that would be racist." This Europe, I'm sorry, has gone a little crazy. This then leads to such things if you close your eyes and it is not about wanting to scare anyone, but it is irresponsible to close your eyes to the real situation, which is what the whole of Europe is doing and Slovenia is doing with it, and do not behave as it is only appropriate and for the benefit of it. No one has proposed anything because it would go beyond the existing legislation, the existing constitution, the applicable European Constitution, the Schengen rules, the Dublin Agreement, all the other international acts that bind us. Nobody. But everyone wonders how you can only suggest such a thing So the people of God, because we only propose to respect the rule of law, and that any citizen, not only Slovenia, the European Union should now unconditionally demand from here to Brussels all those in any position, in the last village or in Brussels, in the centre. [[…]] Since this is not only a problem of endangering people, it can also be a health problem. Do you have any idea what kind of analysis the Germans did when they did a little bit of measuring on what this would bring to the European Union? By the way, in neighbouring Austria, they had an outbreak, if you haven't noticed, and the lepers that Europe has not seen in a hundred years are extremely contagious. Not to mention AIDS, everything else they were up to at the time. You have everything on the Internet, please take a look, it's all official information. Nothing anyone could make up, but data is either the Ministry of Labour, or the Ministry of Health, or the doctors themselves, just so that you can see for yourself what Europe is actually facing right now. But he's facing it in one irresponsible way. It's not these people's fault, it's those who allow it. And with this problem, we face the truth today and here. When I was talking about high goals, it was also very interesting to say that in the name of higher goals, or how it was said that such things should not be spoken of, I would kindly ask that we remember at least half past history, and that in the name of higher objectives they imposed and justified totalitarianism and crimes, ladies and gentlemen, communists, fascists and Nazis, if anyone had forgotten history. [[…]] So don't talk about higher goals. The ultimate goal is to pour pure wine and tell people the truth, and to respect their own rules and their own legal order, and to ensure that people are safe and well-being, in accordance with all the declarations and with everything that binds us. Nothing else, but it's unconditional. And that's what we're really talking about today. What do you do? Europe, if you want at the general level, will have to survive this winter if you want to survive, Europe itself, cut this flow, find solutions, fix the situation where people come from, and stop this story if I use the very beautiful expression that is going on here, otherwise Europe will be in extreme trouble very quickly. I think that Europe itself, once again, does not know what it is facing. I've already said it costs a lot. In Germany, they have now officially announced that they will cost only one year to hold a net of EUR 30 billion. If we know that it is a million migrants who have come to Germany, then it is very easy to calculate that the price will be one 30,000 euros. Even if this is cheaper for us, it is still a tremendous amount of money, and Europe will be driven into a new economic crisis. Because someone does not respect his own rules and does not do the work for which he was sent there. Because he wants to make up for one or the other or because he simply forgot to provide funds in time to protect people. Because I'm not just talking about Slovenia right now, but I'm talking about Europe in general, so there's not gonna be any misunderstanding. The problem with Slovenia is that the external member is on the Schengen border and they have a legally different status. That is what all of you who are lawyers or have legal knowledge should know, but, above all, practically everyone should know that, whichever decision or decision is taken in this Parliament or at the governmental level. This means that everyone who is here will write down and the country can go back to where they're going, and then our problem will be what we're going to do with these people. Now they promise us that from Germany, with cargo planes will send people back to their original countries, of course all those who are not at all entitled to stay there. However, I can honestly tell you, with all the broken promises we have witnessed in the last period, let yourself honestly ask yourself who else you can trust in your word. If someone does not respect his own legal order or the legal order of the interstate community in which he is, can anything else be believed in? That's how much we can trust anyone in Europe right now. And what follows from that? That we should rely exclusively on ourselves, on our timely readiness, on our resources and only do everything possible to protect the safety and well-being of our citizens and citizens. It's pointless to talk about it now, we'll open new corridors, then return corridors, and I don't know, we'll have them here, and we'll have them, and we'll have them, and I don't know what else. And those who return will be terribly ill-willed. God does not allow anyone to come up with the idea of just keeping them here or just having them temporarily, but he can be a very large security problem, unknowingly larger than he is now. There were actually no worse problems now, except for that initial period, because they go very quickly past. But these things are gonna stop, believe me, they're gonna stop. We can also now define when to stop. If everyone were rational in the European Union, the German-engineed principle would have stopped long ago, or at least now that it is clear what time it is. But in practice, because politics is a policy – in three months Germany will have an election in three countries. And this will be a moment of sobriety for Germany. In a year and a half, they'll have elections in the United States. And I firmly believe that a president like this will never be elected again. And this will also change the situation for Europe if some objective international circumstances change. But until then, everything has to be done to ensure that there are no harmful consequences for Slovenia. And they are, and they already are, if you say a thousand times that they're not true. Not only are there direct damage and costs, and this is huge, but it is also about doing damage in individual sectors. Once again, I say just one case, which is certainly most obvious at this time, and believe that there are many other problems like this, especially in some branches along the border. If we had the same situation as it was now, at the top, in the following year – and Europe now predicts that this situation will be here again, it predicts that the day will come, it is now officially announced, 5,000 people now, in winter, but this number will increase significantly in spring, meaning that somewhere at the maximum of that story, at least at the maximum of that story we had in the past weeks – what does this mean for Slovenia? If anyone else thinks that I'm coming, I don't know, from England or from any other country on vacation, of course, they're terribly wrong. Don't think they won't abuse our condition there. If anyone thinks that someone will be grateful to us for assuming the burden of Europe, he is terribly wrong. Not only will no one be grateful, but they will be happy to laugh at us behind our backs. If someone didn't understand those words from the European Union, they're counting on us to do it again; that's what you say, bumblebees. This is roughly a translation into Slovenian. It's better for you than for me to deal with it and suffer it, and it's a shame to have it, it's a translation from "diplomatic" to Slovenian, if anyone doesn't understand. And then what does that mean? That our tourism would be dead at home; now he's clinically dead, and then he'd really be dead. You think this is a million-dollar loss – someone asked the question earlier, "how much will one fence cost?".. People of God, dripping into the sea against the economic losses that the present state brings. That's what you need to know. It's a drop into the sea. Not to mention that security has no price by definition and that everything else that we are in this game, which unfortunately Europe has landed and with it already Slovenia has the role of that weed from the Indian proverb, that if elephants fight or love, we always have to do everything in this case to protect ourselves, and we are back at the beginning. [[…]] No one can return lost time. Given that it is certainly not the case that images of the first wagons, full of barbed wires coming to Slovenia, show today, because we have just today, see by chance, this meeting, it is said that this encouragement has achieved its purpose, regardless of the fact that there are no conclusions today, and I hope personally that it is not just someone who has obtained it, that it will then lie somewhere. But this needs to be set up and used immediately. And to publish it, that's essential. To give a signal that they will start thinking about the same and doing Croatia, immediately after the elections, until the elections are clearly blocked, and then everyone else to come to some domino effect, to make the final fence at the Greek border; I suppose then the Greeks will also start doing their work. And why they don't do it, you probably know. Siriza, their version of the United Left Down said coldly dead, "for revenge on the European Union, because we have spent all their money, we will now flood Europe with migrants". And they're not doing anything to stop this current. Although the former government has put the wire on the land border, it is not being defended. But no one controls the sea, they have circular traffic, and so do the Turks. The Turks are so militarily strong – if no one knows, the Turks are stronger than the entire European Union by the standards of the ordinary army together – that if they wanted to, of course, they would stop it immediately. They do not want to, because they use this as a weapon in the negotiations and they expect money from it and therefore expect entry into the European Union beyond the rules of the European Union, and this should be given to someone to think about. Europe is now being subjected to smooth blackmail and all the politicians currently running down offer no idea what, they must be aware that this only strengthens It was the biggest service to the Turkish President now for his re-election or election of his client. [[…]] Because at home he interpreted it this way: "Look, Europe is already bowing down against the mighty Turkish empire." That's how you think about these things. By the way, that's what they told us a few years ago in the fris, that this was going to happen when Nate and I were there. That's what I said here, and nobody thought anything like that could happen. Today, however, this happens if timely warnings are ignored. The question that opens up everywhere in the field is also what's wrong with the damage that's happened before some people just keep their eyes closed. Literally, some meadows are destroyed, some assets and so on, and there are mountains of costs every day, and some even benefit from it. I don't know who did the bragging last time, put up a couple of vending machines, and they're happy cashiers. But everyone else has a loss, and here things have to be managed in a way that is in everyone's interest, but above all, and I go back to the beginning, you have to lead them by respecting your own legal order. No one is above the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, no one. No one is aware of the international acts ratified by Slovenia, including the Schengen Agreement. He also boasts: "Look, the flow has increased." Yeah, sure. Why? Because no one implements the Schengen. It's a translation into Slovenian. We boast of violating our own legal order. Well, we've come a long way, I must say. And you applaud this in the coalition instead of preventing it in time. This is the difference between running the country in one way or another, which I am talking about. Finally, the question is what will happen to all the lost economic opportunities. What will happen to all those now in tourism who have had mass cancellations or are suddenly faced with the fact that from countries where they have had full orders all year round, suddenly no one is interested in coming here anymore. Will anyone pay them back, ladies and gentlemen? I seriously doubt it. But we can't hear that. But this is already happening. This is not something that would be out there, but this is happening here and now, in your Slovenia, because someone didn't listen to the information in time and prepare things so that this situation wouldn't happen, because this situation should never happen. If I were smart and resourceful and had the right people in power, what would they do? If not sooner, we would begin to build the fence of Hungary at the latest. And the day she closed the borders of Hungary, so would we. What would be the result? The current would have simply gone somewhere else, and now we would have peace. And if we were to still connect with the countries of the Visegra Group, which at this time are the only ones that are helping each other effectively, we would have a nice position to deal peacefully with economic development rather than looking at the rivers of people and dealing with what it means now; whether it is a very big danger or just a medium very high threat or an extremely high threat. Thus, about now, discussions are taking place in Slovenia. The problem is that this situation should not be reached, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to listen first. But now that this situation has come to an end, everything has to be done to end it. First of all, we have to do this on our own in Slovenia. And to do everything to ensure that the southern border is protected, closed and consistently implemented by the Schengen and all other regulations of the Republic of Slovenia unconditionally and without exception, throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is what I demand of this government as a Member, and I demand it as a citizen! And on behalf of all two million Slovenes and Slovenians, I demand this because I have every right. No one's above the constitution, ladies and gentlemen, but if a thousand times gets a backlash from Brussels, or I don't know where, and he speaks on behalf of humanism, "yeah, there's nothing we can do." It's not true. No one said to use any violence or I don't know what. Do what you should have done a long time ago, and take care of the safety and well-being of the people, nothing else. And then, when you go to the bodies of the European Union, ask the European Union to do so as a whole and stop acting like a spoiled boy who for the first time has lost his protective father and now does not know what to do with himself. This is how the European Union reacts. Above all, I think that the end of those stories is how this will contribute to Europe's future economic well-being. The final takeover of this, once again, is that published on Germany's websites: 81% are illiterate, 90% are incompatible with the European labour market. These are official data from the German Ministry of Labour. And I hope you're all aware of what that means. When we talk about law, legal norms and respect for law, and we will all speak the same language, then solutions will be simple, democratic and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u97	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? If one of the representatives of the motion for a recommendation and a representative of the Government wishes to discuss it, please apply with a raise of hands. In this case, the final proposer shall be given the floor. Before the application, I would like to remind you that there will be no visible names on the screen for the debate, so we will receive from the on-call room in a few moments a list of the reported debaters, which will be prepared by the system in a random order. I'm asking you to sign up. They are listed in the following order: Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Ivan Škodnik. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Once again a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly! At the end of this afternoon's session, some old ones are funny. Me, my respectable colleagues, no matter what is being discussed in content, I don't think this thing is funny. When we talked a lot today about this migrant crisis; the well-respected interior minister, I think that when we talk about such an important topic, it is no accident that you are here, in the National Assembly. This is your task, your responsibility. If you and Mrs. Secretary of Defense are hugging each other, I'm very happy. But the last time we talked about the migrant crisis, the leader of the SD Group was very much missing your presence, so, as I pointed out earlier, I think that was data that didn't grow on my herb. Before that, I concluded my speech by waiting for us to face problems in the future. Surely this migratory crisis will have major consequences for Slovenia, of course for Europe as a whole, and for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So it doesn't matter whether there's 100,000 or 200,000 or more going through our country. I certainly agree with my predecessors that fear is great when they adopt a certain law in neighbouring Austria and Germany overnight. And this will certainly be felt by a small country like Slovenia. And there will be great problems for the future. When we were very sensitive to these people today, surely these feelings were in place. But we must not forget when we talk about migrants who have come from a distant world – and, of course, everyone in this Chamber wants them to have peace in their country, to have a decent home and, of course, their lives – when we talk about these migrants, I repeat, we forget about the Slovenes and the Slovenians. I'm not gonna say I was in any of the collection centers. It's easy to go once or twice. But I'm afraid what we're going to talk about in the spring, who was there in the winter. That's what I'm afraid of. I'm afraid for the volunteers, too, for how long they'll last. And of course, when I was in one place in the Republic of Slovenia in the fall time, someone tells me that he had already collected over 25 tons of stoppers for someone to extend his life for a few years. It's right to help people who come to our country. But we must be aware of how capable we are and what awaits us in the future. Data are also known for the cost of one migrant. We don't need to be good at math. It is found and calculated: around EUR 10 000. I repeat, but we have many people in Slovenia who pay worse bills, who have difficulty teaching their children and fighting for every day. However, we must be aware of how capable we are of accepting this, and therefore the call to the President of the Government, all ministers, that this mission you have is responsible for the well-being of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to practically monitor this seven-year debate. She was useful to me, the way she laughs there. If it is a laugh that Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic, has spoken and addressed today about this acute Slovenian and European issue, if it is funny that today, which is commendable, practically all the time, is the presence of the Prime Minister, Dr Miro Cerar and two key ministers and a key minister, it is not funny to me. I welcome this persistence. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a very serious subject. I listened to the debate. There were also some life stories that shortened our evening. I also listened to the debate to make it easier for me to convey our views, our needs at the AFET Tuesday session, to which Mr Elmar Brok invited me; I will also then give him an invitation to visit the Slovenian Foreign Policy Committee. It's just that we don't tell each other experiences here. It is about finding solutions to overplay scenarios that may be waiting for us in the future, and surely they are waiting for us. I am pleased that the Minister of the Interior has recently been communicating well with a colleague from Croatia. And vice versa, of course. What happens after Sunday when they have elections in Croatia, what if the second option wins? What if this friend of hers says, "I don't give a fuck," then what happens? We have a scenario, do we have answers to these questions? And at the mini summit, which we talked about several times today – on Sunday, October 25, he was in Brussels – Mr Junkcer said, quote: "Member States will have to do more and respond more quickly." And that this mini summit should not, in fact, be, because Member States themselves should resolve matters, communicate with each other. And he warned that the Western Balkan countries do not communicate with each other, but through each other. I add that they must also communicate with Slovenia, which is not a Balkan country, but is a Central European country, which we have finally written in our new declaration on Slovenian foreign policy. There was a lot of talk about municipalities; yes, we also invited mayors from the Maribor area to work this Monday, and of course the mayor from Šentilj also came, and they said that their municipalities had been paralyzed for the last three weeks, that mayors were dealing with what was right, with the problem of refugees and the best of their ability and the best of their will to solve problems. Colleagues and colleagues, we must be fair and we must provide budgetary resources in order to actually provide some compensation for these municipalities that are experiencing material damage. We know there is no money, but at least at some symbolic level we should make this gesture. Now we're just gonna brag and say, look how nice these mayors are, bravo. But let's also do some honest action, not by seeing some group of thinkers here in the middle of Ljubljana, and thinking about how to deal with refugees and deal with hate speech. Actually, look, I haven't heard an enemy speech in this House in a long time. I don't know, who's the idea now that the darkness is the hate speech? However, I am pleased that the administrators of the web portals have turned off the possibility of commenting. And that was a lot of time. My colleagues and colleagues, as they say, have benefited from this debate. I want us to keep working together. On September 29th, I myself, when Hungarians placed a barbed wire on the Slovenian-Hungarian border and we had a meeting of three committees, experienced criticism, to collect political points; in the final stage we must do so, but for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. So, I want a successful job for everyone who's been called forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u101	The text shall be made available by representative proposers, Mag. Branko Grimes. No, I'm sorry. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello ministers, Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! I didn't really mean to come over, but when I was here all day, also because it was my duty to be, and I also have to say that there were a lot of our Members from our modern Party Group and I'm very proud of them because they were very professional and constructive in their discussions. [[…]] I also stopped by because I've been listening to my colleague from SDS, Mr Grimes, for the last 30 minutes, and I have nothing against him, but I've been trying, but I have to tell you that I didn't understand what he was going to say. I will try to say a debate in a few minutes or some conclusion to this debate that I have come to understand today. The first thing was, of course, the time we spent here was unnecessary, especially the valuable time of ministers, the President of the Government, because we know that there were other obligations, and they probably had to leave. All ministers who should be, those who have ever been specifically mentioned – for internal affairs, for defence, for foreign minister – of course, have other tasks. We'd probably be more on the ground, but thank God this thing is manageable. And so, somehow, because of the fact that, of course, in the last 14 days, our group has actually had some reflections, but what is now happening in the field, we have only talked about this, some have become weary, and somehow in the parliamentary group we have agreed with the leader of the parliamentary group that we are going somehow into action, some Members from those areas that are from both parts, and of course they have also gone to Šentilj as well, and the conclusion was the following: The next day they reported that, although the situation is difficult, there are many people who helped, but they were manageable. Our government and, of course, the ministers who have worked on it have already estimated that we are ready for 8,000 refugees if they come. But if there are more, we have more preparations, and that's what happened. Probably when there were 10,000 of them and probably ever more, despite the fact that there were so many refugees or migrants, they did everything. Thank you all; I would again like to thank the police, the Civil Protection, the Red Cross, the military, the volunteers, the Karitas, all those who have done their utmost to make matters resolved. Sometimes we panic in the family when someone comes to visit. For example, we have six chairs at the table, and a sister comes along, a daughter and a family, and those six chairs are filled. At the same time, however, another member comes unannounced, a brother or sister with a family, and four come. There's an immediate problem with where they're going to sit and what we're going to eat, we've only got six people to cook. But then it's wise to act. That is what our government has done, or ministers, and they have resolved matters. And thank God, I am very proud of this parliamentary group and also of the entire coalition, which at that time proved very well and showed that we are on the right track, and of course the President of the Government, and I hope that today citizens and citizens have looked at us and that somehow they have been able to see that this debate was really meaningless or unnecessary. It was unnecessary because, in fact, everything we discussed, when we somehow came to it, there were no specific things to be wrong about. And I didn't really realize anywhere that whatever this government was doing was wrong. Of course, there is a problem, a global problem that will have to be solved elsewhere. Europe itself will not be a part of this, it will have to sit together, not just in Syria, where the origin of this is somewhere else, because we know that there can be more of these refugees. Together, leaders will have to sit down, in the Organization of the United Nations they will have to sit down and, of course, find some solutions for everything. But we, I think in Slovenia, 2 million of us are that we were forced to do something about these things at the time that we were forced to do very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Please! [[advertising from the hall]] The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I have to say again that it was very amusing for me now when a colleague of the ruling coalition said he didn't understand what I was telling him. I am telling him that, on my proposal, also endorsed by the commission I am leading, you have accepted exactly two months ago the emphasis that today, when he made an obvious statement, has been made by the President of the State to the Prime Minister of the Government. If you didn't figure it out, all of you. That's what I've been reading to you all along. You didn't do what you were elected to do. On what grounds were you elected? You ensured that you would ensure security, consistent respect for the rule of law, consistent respect for the rule of law, international treaties and the Slovenian Constitution, and that you would care for the welfare of the people; in general, you covered the entire line. If I cannot tell you this, you have just been told by the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor. That's exactly what he told you. You haven't done your job, and why not? Because you are watching how the whole of Europe is doing right now, and you think that when you're staring at the same horn, it's good for Slovenia. It's not. If everyone in Europe is in violation of the laws now, this does not mean that you have the right, nor does it mean that it is good for Slovenia. Orbans were all measured, including some here, that I don't know what it was when he set up the fence. Today, Orban is the only European policy that has the great support of its people – if it goes to elections now, 80% will get – and can peacefully say that it has provided its own economic prosperity, security and peace. In the face of the great effort he has made and in the face of the ignorance which he has received from the European Union. This is slander, if you don't understand it, because all Europe is now following the principle instead of solidarity, which is full of mouths, it thinks, it is better that problems go to you than to come to me. [[…]] That is really how Europe works now. And that's why they all measured Orbán because he closed the border, or else he'd be in trouble right now. But that's how we do it, because we haven't done the same thing if you don't understand. But why did this whole story even come to light? Because someone took the right in Europe – first of all, I don't know, in Brussels and Germany, but now here, because everyone has to go with the herd – that he thinks that laws suddenly no longer apply so that the European Union's legal rules can be violated long and hard. Nobody has that mandate, nobody has that right. But this government is run by a constitutional lawyer who can do that, in fact, he should be the first to say it, not that I have to explain it here. No one has that right, ladies and gentlemen, not you, not you, not you, no one, not me. No one does. No one is above the law, no one is above the Constitution, no one is above the ratified international treaties, which are now in breach in Slovenia long and short. And that's the core of the problem we're facing, and it shouldn't have to come to that. Before it was said, we have an army and police doing their job. Yes, thank God, we all agree. If anyone, we can now be grateful to the boys in uniforms, the police, the military, all those who help them, the Civil Protection, the volunteers, the doctors, the firefighters who care about the extreme efforts to make things work around here. But where do we not understand each other? It doesn't have to be that way. If we were to take care of what is now popularly called the "obstacles" in left-wing Latvian, but according to the local term, it is called a fair fence, and the Schengen rules in the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which you owe, you are still criminally responsible for this, if someone does not know, then this situation would not be. There wouldn't be this terrible effort for firefighters, there would be no effort for doctors, there would be no cost, there would be nothing. All that needs to be done is to set up a fence, ensure minimum protection of the fence and then declare it. No one would ever get here again, as no one is actually going against the fence in Hungary anymore, because everyone knows that it is there and works by itself, so this thing is so effective. To avoid the efforts, the costs, and the more aggressive methods that you eventually have to use. I therefore point out that, on behalf of such high ideals, no one as a politician or as an individual has the right to impose on citizens and citizens a massive violation of the rule of law, does not have the right to put them in a position where fundamental values, the well-being of people or even personal integrity and the life of an individual are at risk. When this knowledge will be the knowledge of everyone and there will be agreement on this in this national assembly, then I firmly believe that Slovenia will have excellent foundations for moving forward. Even in the new [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-05-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u105	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this complex item of the agenda and also the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I want a quiet night for everyone. For further joint and responsible work, and I thank you for everything you are on behalf of the country already and you will do, because you are, we are and are people.
