ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Vesna Vervega by 3 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Han, mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Peter Wilfan. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Election Commission and the candidate for MP to the 10th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 18 May 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 8th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Minister. Since Andreja Katič has been appointed Minister of Defence, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, she cannot act as a Member as long as she serves as Minister. The National Election Commission forwarded a decision to the assembly on which candidate has the right to replace the Member of the Minister. The decision of the State Election Commission was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. You received the report and it was published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: At the time when Member Andreja Katič, acting as Minister of Defence, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, is unable to act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Law on Members from today, Mr Jan Škoberne, born 2. 8. 1987, Salek 66/A, Velenje. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members of the 80 are present, with 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite my fellow Member to join us and take his seat. I wish my colleague to perform the work of a Member successfully in the parliamentary benches. This concludes this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. We move on to the 9th A-point of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the Group of Members and Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Willing in the National Assembly after a restricted procedure. At its 27th meeting, on 8 May 2015, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly should be examined in a simplified manner. On 13 May 2015, on the basis of Article 21, paragraph 21, of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Jožet Tank to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! The next meeting, the June meeting of the National Assembly, has an extensive agenda. The largest part is a package of electoral laws. It shall cover half of the agenda items. I must say that, in fact, the coalition does not have any priorities, does not fulfil any commitments under the coalition treaties and obviously deals only with certain issues relating to the organisation of the government's work, personnel matters and the mandate of Janez Janša. We have spent the first three months of this mandate, and obviously in the next five months the work has focused intensively on finding new technical obstacles, not only that Janez Janša could no longer be elected, but also that he could not even run. This is said to be the law on elections to the National Assembly, which has been tabled by a broad Mauritius coalition, introduces some new obstacles. We believe that in some parts of this work, too, it is likely to interfere with constitutional provisions on the right to run. Passive electoral rights are an important criterion, an important institution. Candidateing and being elected is allowed to practically all citizens who meet certain conditions, and now these conditions for candidateing change on the basis. This law also substantially changes quotas. The issue of quotas is in fact a meaningless question, because when you recently amended the law on marriage and family relations you have determined that they are now only persons. And the definition of sex quotas is, in fact, from this point on until this is settled by a constitutional decision, it is not approved by the Constitutional Court or by a referendum which makes no sense. You have also intervened intensively in the early elections. The Coalition, instead of addressing problems at the top of the judiciary, which has caused major problems through an unconstitutional decision, is also working to further prevent this person, who has been the victim of some individuals in the justice system, from running for office and from being elected. With such a statement, this amendment to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly was also accompanied by a procedure. The first-signed and president of the Internal Policy Committee made this argument in the case of the Constitutional Court of the Supreme Court’s abrogation of the Supreme Court’s decision. Instead of asking questions and taking action against those who have led to an unconstitutional decision, you are dealing with the victim of this system. This is quite similar to what happened in some periods of Slovenian history when we were in a common country. There, too, the causes were never processed and placed in the process, but they were always dealt with only the victims. And then there was a great ethical burden on the victims, and they also sought one way or another for reasons of guilt. Exactly the same purpose and in exactly the same way, this law is also incorporated into the legislative procedure. I think that those who are committed to meeting ethical criteria, which are committed to the principles of the rule of law, justice, justice, must probably first regulate the areas – and for this you also have a large majority in this national council – where precisely these things do not work and do not work. This is the top of the prosecution's organization. This is the Supreme Court. I propose that you vote against this law being dealt with in short-term because it is not normal for key electoral laws to be taken into account. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Almost no debate. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u3	We're moving on to decision-making. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 71. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 71.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and that the assembly will therefore consider the proposal for a law following a regular procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 15-day deadline for the submission of a request for a general debate on a proposal for a law begins tomorrow. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u4	Your Honor! Recently, at the College of the President of the National Assembly, Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, asked me to take account of the recent European Parliament resolution of 15. 4. At the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide, I shall also speak on behalf of the Pieteta and the importance of preserving memory and condemn such crimes that have occurred in our past at European or other continents. Today, none of us can and should deny the heavy historical burden that Europe is facing at the same time as positive efforts to protect international human rights when we raise the issue of how to treat our fellow human being before we condemn ourselves and others. The question is, where and when do we start if we try to be principled? Among other things, we can mention the Inquisition and the suffering and death of millions of Europeans and, in particular, Europeans from the 13th and 19th centuries. At the time of the New Year's great discoveries and at the advent of modern history, the European colonial powers, on behalf of the civilized nations, and the fight against barbarism, shone death beyond the borders of our continent, because there were no people living there. The near destruction of the indigenous peoples of Namibia today by the then imperial Germany is just the most screeching and picturesque expression of Europe's former attitude towards another. Similarly, if not worse, European countries and political regimes on behalf of ideologies have started with their populations, as long as the issue of human rights by the international community has been recognised as the exclusive competence of each country. The memory of the Holocaust and the Ukrainian famine is valid. Unfortunately, this situation has not improved in the United Nations to date and we keep the memories of Cambodia, Rwanda and Srebrenica in mind, but at the same time we do not want to recognize other cases where it is politically and economically appropriate for no one in the international community to come forward. This is also evident in the European Parliament's resolution of 2. 4. 2009 on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which has experienced its calvary in this House as well. Finally, we, too, have to clean up our lives, within ourselves and among ourselves, before we value what has happened and what is happening elsewhere, while ensuring that politicisation does not violate the memory and the duty to speak. Regardless of all the above, the 20th century testifies to the fact that Europe and the world have not learned enough or at least to learn too slowly. This year we mark the 100th anniversary of cruel crimes committed against the Armenian nation by the hands of the slaves of the Ottoman Empire. The numerous killings, the marches of death and the establishment of impossible living conditions have put a million and a half Armenians to death. It began with intellectuals and men and continued with the most vulnerable women and children. The unimaginable atrocities of the so - called great crime, or Medz Yeghern, have left disastrous consequences on the identity of the Armenian people, their historical and cultural heritage. Therefore, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I join all those who have expressed in a spirit of solidarity their sympathy for the victims of the above-mentioned crimes, all those who share with the Armenian people the memories of the immense suffering and pain of all the victims and their craftsmen, all who are aware that the preservation of the memory of the past is crucial for the future, because without memory and truth, reconciliation remains an unattainable ideal. Yet it would be unfair to claim that, as humans, as a world, we have learned nothing, that man’s unworthy and repudiated actions have not touched us. I am convinced that some important milestones of the 20th century show that acts that symbolize the embodiment of evil against man alone can never and never be accepted as an excuse for any higher purpose. The goal of the global moral community can be only one and only: to preserve humanity, humanity and man himself. That the conduct which the latter deny must also be opposed, we must also bear witness to the emergence of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the first universal international legal instrument on human rights adopted in 1948 under the auspices of the United Nations. The Convention laid down the definition of the most perverse crime known to mankind, and prescribed rigorous legal standards to prove it, as only fulfilling these places devote genocide to the crime scene of all crimes. Our vocabulary is complete, and for all time there is an expression that dominates mankind’s evils even worse. Last but not least, the American letter Edgar Allan Poe was right, "words have no power to influence the mind without the subtle threat of their reality, so we must be careful not to devalue this reality". Your Honor! So what is the message we have to convey to future generations? What we can do, however, when we see that the suffering of the innocent Ottoman Armenians in the 20th century followed by the suffering of many other nations, ethnic, social, religious, and other groups. The bare hope of centuries of horror not being passed on to our future is not enough. We must look for the answer in determination and responsibility. The determination that atrocities against humanity and genocide will never be forgotten, but that we will keep them in mind in order to learn from them, not to repeat them. The determination to shape and develop, as our Constitution, peace policy and culture of peace and non-violence also dictates in the Republic of Slovenia. A policy that requires peaceful and peaceful resolution in good faith, a culture that rejects hatred, promotes the exercise of human rights, and consistently and systematically condemns the use of violence anywhere in the world from within the international community. At the same time, our determined actions must also be responsible. We must do everything in our power to make it possible for the victims of major crimes to be reconciled with their executioners, to encourage them at these difficult steps, and to enable them to lead the way of reconciliation in a spirit of mutual respect and peaceful cooperation. Only in this way will we be able to close the many wounds that mankind has inflicted on itself. Allow me to conclude my address with the meaningful words of Hannah Arendt's political thought: "The truth is that telling reveals the meaning without mistake, that it would define it, that it would bring agreement and reconciliation with things as they are, and that we can even trust him that over time it will also indirectly contain the last word we expect from Judgment Day." That is why, Your Honor, let us relate and never forget. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u5	Dear President, the House of Honor! We are ahead of a point where the usual and normal parliamentary practice is that Members and Members, representatives of the people are in fact asking the executive authority of the subject and asking certain answers from them. How important it is that these questions are raised in public, for they answer not only to us but to the whole people. In recent times, however, there has been a practice that the government has become increasingly less respectful of this, especially in view of the fact that there are more and more empty spaces. Where they do not, they send state secretaries to sit to cover the empty spaces, because you know that the Secretary of State cannot answer the questions. What is really painful is that the President of the National Assembly has already set up his authority with the Government and has asked her to actually, given that the timetable for the whole year is known ahead of time when these Members' questions are, in fact, the answer is that this will increase and work further. And if we look at the excuses of these ministers and ministers, we will see that it is not actually the most justified in the essence of absence. The two ministers will meet at the same meeting, one minister will also be in Slovenia and will speak with the OECD High Representatives, who could also be held by other senior government officials and would also be appropriate. And also certain consultations abroad, where there is no need for a minister to be present. That's why I was thinking about the next thing this weekend. Given that it is a procedural question of how to help the Institute of the President of the National Assembly and the National Assembly itself, to give a clear message to the Government that it should stop joking about, I will say, such parliamentary questions. Therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose what we have already done – when the President of the Government failed to answer Members' questions, we have therefore postponed this date to the current week. I suggest that we move this day of questions to Thursday, because they always come to the government successfully, no matter what happens, most of them. Therefore, I propose that we have parliamentary questions because Thursday is not actually a meeting, the agenda is too short, and after the second hour of the government meeting, they can come here to the National Assembly and answer our questions. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President, I would like to vote on this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u6	As I have already announced at the 28th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly on 15 May 2015, I have also discussed this matter with the President of the Government. This one apologized to me for the absence of so many ministers and ministers, but at least one of them, in addition to what has been stated so far, has also become ill. So he explained these reasons to me further. In addition, we have already taken these decisions, so we will not decide. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Procedural after I'm done. Now you've got procedural. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u7	President, I don't want to be in charge. Far from it. I hope you do not understand this, but I have proposed a proposal for a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly of 65th Article, such as parliamentary practice. It is your policy to determine whether or not the proposal is harmonised or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not to reject it simply by ad hoc. It just doesn't work. You have a parliamentary majority and have Parliament say whether this proposal, which is possible with the Rules of Procedure, can decide. And if so, then I will be satisfied, for most are convinced that this image can be repeated indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u8	Your suggestion is that this agenda item be moved to Thursday, this week? Procedural? There's no explanation for that. Gradually, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. If you put this to a vote, I will say that the SMC Group will vote against it. The arguments why were already given by the President of the National Assembly. I propose, however, that, in the role of the President of the Government, his colleagues be able to assess when his members are justifiably absent. All members of the ministerial team who are not here today are absent with an explanation that they are in important service relations representing the positions of the Republic of Slovenia in their areas in the international environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u10	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that. This warning given by Mr Möderndorfer is in place. I would only modify his proposal in part. I propose that we do this part of the point in those parts where there are no ministers, but on Thursday that we remain part of it, the right answers from the President of the Government and the ministers who are here have done it today, as we have on the programme, and that we should only listen to these answers Thursday from those ministries that are not. I think that would be a good compromise.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u12	Okay. Before we decide, I will read the relevant part of the first paragraph of Article 65: "The individual agenda items shall be dealt with in accordance with a specific order." This one's already been determined. "During the meeting, the National Assembly may change the order of treatment of individual agenda items no more than twice, if not opposed by a third of the Members present." This is relevant to the decision in this case. So I put to the vote the decision that the National Assembly will move today's point to Thursday. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 61. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 61.]] The decision was not adopted. We continue on the 1st item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 47 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order for asking questions shall be set in accordance with Article 244, paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Minister or Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, Minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, apologized for today, until 5 p.m., mag. Mr Liliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture, from 15:00 on, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Zdravko Počvalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, and Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. Mrs Ludmila Novak will be the first to ask him the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u13	President, thank you for your word. Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! In these days, we commemorate the end of World War II. Many of the events were organized. Almost all of them were reminded of the post-war Slovenian divisions and talked about the necessary reconciliation and national reconciliation. In Ajdovščina, at the 70th anniversary of the first Slovenian government after World War II, you said: "We must also be able to show an appropriate fifth to all the dead, especially to the victims of all wars and totalitarian systems." The president of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, also stressed at the central national celebration: "70 years later is the last time to bury our dead. This requires not only our history and civilization, which we are part of, but also the fact that we are human." President Pahor said at the reception of the Fighters' Associations: "It is time for us to live today, not against each other, but for each other and for each other, because of the tragic division of the nation in the past history. How is it possible that almost three quarters of a century after the end of World War II we fired the Germans and the Italians, but our brother didn't." Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: What are you going to do not only to remain in words but to really take concrete steps and bury the victims of the revolution of interwar post-war beatings that are still in hidden and unordered graves? These people have not yet been given the civil rights to the grave and the burial. What measures are you or will you take to realize the important commitment under the coalition agreement that all dead must be buried with dignity?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u14	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Any civilized country wishing to develop normally and healthyly must have a clear relationship with the past. This relationship must be a lesson from which we can learn much, and above all we must respect and have a fifth to the dead. Unfortunately, this is a question that also speaks of our values, often used for political purposes, which, of course, I do not agree with, and I am constantly trying to overcome. That is why, in principle, I supported the proposal for a law on hidden war graves and the burial of victims, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with you as the first-signed Member, Mrs Ljudmila Novak. The same view is expressed by the Government, which understands and supports the objectives and objectives that the draft law seeks to achieve. This means that all victims of war and post-war violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia must be guaranteed the right to a decent burial, to mark the grave or grave and to remember it. The functioning of the Government is focused on the future and development, which means that it is necessary to heal first the wounds that have been burdening Slovenian society for decades. So we must properly bury all the dead and then, on that basis, focus, as I said, on the future and development. The government therefore appreciates the efforts of the proposer, all companies and individuals who, through their proposals, propose solutions and thus contribute to the common objective of ensuring that victims are granted the right to a decent burial. There are, of course, open questions, which I believe are not insurmountable. It is therefore reasonable to invest a lot of will, dialogue and all of our energies in order to overcome them with a common will. On the basis of the current law, the competent ministry has already carried out procedures for the organisation of war graves, including hidden war graves. Thus, 600 hidden military graves, 185 probes, 60 digs, and other activities related to the protection of military graves have already been carried out. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, the Ministry carried out the amount of remains from 45 karst caves and stored them in a cemetery in Maribor. Also in recent years, the competent ministry has already arranged a hidden war cemetery in the Kočevský Rog area, carried out the amount of remains from the karst plains, built the Teharje Memorial Park, the cemetery in Maribor and Škofja Loka, and carried out activities related to the arrangement of the memorial park and military graves in the Kamniška Bistrica area, the activity related to the temporary arrangement of the Barbara grave in the Hudi Cave and the activities related to the construction of the monument for all war victims. There's a lot of this activity. Among other things, there are activities here to establish a new information base for keeping records of hidden war graves and registers of war graves. The municipalities are also informed in the process of the adoption of the OPN of all locations of hidden war graves that are registered in the records of the hidden war graves of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this municipality, special protection regimes are laid down in their OPN for locations where hidden war sites are located. I've given this information to tell you that there's a lot of work going on here, that there's activity here. Of course, I would like all these activities to be even more intensive, and we are all aware and must be aware that these are very complex and complex procedures, which require negligible financial resources and which must involve experts from different profiles. But I am sure that, if we are patient enough, wise enough, we can make important moves in this direction towards further agreement that all of us, in accordance with civil principles here, will commit ourselves to closing these wounds from the past. The purpose of the government is, therefore, to re-establish Slovenia, its citizens and its inhabitants as part of an open, fair, solidarity, just, progressive and self-confident society. I think it will be necessary and must also contribute to our fiveth attitude towards all the dead, to our past. This is how we will strive to work together, and I hope with you and the Members of all the parties to take an important step in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u16	Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u17	Recently, we have been able to monitor that the remains of Barbara's trench are still stored in containers, and action in this area should be accelerated. For this reason, Nova Slovenija has also drawn up an appropriate law. A better, clearer marriage is needed, money and will are needed. That's why I want to know: Do your coalition partners actually support your efforts or are they just your efforts, because I have had this feeling more than once? On Saturday there was the right mass in Brezje, which you attended, also the President of the National Assembly and also some other politicians, which is commendable. And there Ljubljana's Archbishop Stanislav Zore said: "Because different armies walked by the house, it was often not the decision of the individual who would take it with him. When asked, he had to go with them, otherwise the family would suffer. That's why our men and boys wore uniforms from all the belligerent sides." He also said that the time had come for us to finally look around for 70 years after the war and wonder where our brothers were. And the quote of John the Resident, the Honourable President of the Union of Fighters: "Peteta means that at least after death we are all the same," and added "that is why he is sinning against this basic law of civilisation the one who shares the bones." Dear Prime Minister, you have executive authority. I want you to be able to take these decisive steps, bury the dead and have coalition partners at your side, as you wrote in the coalition agreement. I'm asking: Do they support you in this regard?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u18	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, responds further.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The coalition partners are united in the goals that I have set out and that are also mentioned by you. We all want the same, that is, a five-year relationship to our history, to all the dead, a worthy burial. In short, everything you've been telling me not to repeat. This I think is very good because it shows that we have matured, in fact, more politically and socially, to some point when this is slowly becoming some undeniable common goal. However, the coalition partners differ to a certain extent in how we perceive the way to this end. And this is where the discussions are taking place. As you know, they will also be held in the National Assembly. But for this we are here, Government, Members, to find a common path to this end. I'm sure this conversation will bear fruit. Let me just mention that the government has already taken an important step here as regards Barbara's trench. We have already redeployed funds here, a very competent ministry led by colleague Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, who is from the coalition party and has also cooperated here to ensure that funds are made available for this matter to be properly regulated, because this situation is really unacceptable right now. In the following week, the call will be made public on the basis of which this will be settled. Not only are others working towards this, but we must understand, of course, that the views on how to achieve this goal are still to some extent different. And here's the effort we have to overcome. I hope that we will and that we will achieve this important point that we all want.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u20	Second, Dr. Mir Cerar will ask the Prime Minister a question. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. In May, the European Commission launched a new migration strategy, including a proposal to introduce quotas for the allocation of refugees across the European Union. Slovenia is expected to take over 207 of the 20,000 refugees outside the European Union after the Brussels calculations. Dear Mr. President of the Government! From your response to the European Commission's proposal on quotas, disagreements with the proposed quotas could be seen. You said that the decision on how many refugees a country would be willing to take should be based on the principle of volunteering. At the same time, you said that Slovenia was not running away from the problem of refugees and that a number of refugees were ready to be accepted in a spirit of solidarity. In the Alliance Group, we are convinced that the time has come when we will learn the real readiness of governments and Europeans to stop embarrassing ourselves and help people in distress. People who do not enjoy the protection of their country are often the ones whose own country is threatened by persecution. It is the European asylum policy that decides the fate of human life. The data on the victims is frightening. This year alone, the sea has claimed more than a thousand 800 lives. And let us not forget, when refugees of another country reject and refuse entry, they can be sentenced to garbage or to living in the shadows without any rights and possibilities of survival. In the Alliance's Group, we'll keep alerting the refugees. More. We will endeavour to ensure that the wishes of many migrants and refugees are also realized when they are placed on dangerous and risky paths to a better life somewhere on the European continent. We are convinced that in societies that respect human rights based on solidarity and a state of prosperity for everyone, this should not constitute any obstacle. In the Alliance, we would like to see the proposal to take over refugees also between the Slovenians and Slovenians receive a suitable reception. It's not about numbers or quotas, it's about deciding the fate of human life. Dear Mr. President! I'm asking you: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia approach the resolution of the crisis with refugees dying in the Mediterranean and address the causes of dangerous migration? What is your opinion on the proposal to introduce quotas for the allocation of refugees across the European Union? Will you help us when we convince the public that in this case a rather high rate of unemployment in Slovenia does not mean that we will get fewer refugees, but that we can be more solidarity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u22	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your question. Let me first say that the Slovenians must never be ashamed when we run into the questions you raised. Slovenians can be proud of our solidarity, for we show it in large quantities both at home and against people who are in a difficult situation, children, poor, suffering, hungry, those in wars abroad and around the world. Even in this case, which we are now dealing with here, we Slovenians have already shown our feelings and our intention to be in solidarity with people in distress. As is known, we have already participated in the international project Eurema in 2010 and have accepted refugees from Malta. At the end of 2013 and at the beginning of 2014 we jumped our warship Triglav to help with the Mare Nostrum project to rescue the refugees. We are now actively involved in Operation Triton. As you know, and I have made this public, we have already said publicly to Europe, I have made it clear on my own in the European Council that we are also prepared to be able to participate in this solidarity project with the renewed engagement of the Triglav, as well as with the adoption of a number of refugees who meet certain conditions for this. So here there is no doubt that Slovenia is solidarity and will be solidarity. Of course, we are now facing proposals from the European Commission that will become official by the end of the month. We need to be clear here, we cannot promise more than we can, but we must strive to do everything we can to help. If we're talking about reassignment. For this, the Commission will propose a scheme that we expect by the end of this month. However, when we are talking about the resettlement scheme for 20,000 third-country refugees, which is now being discussed, which all EU Member States are supposed to accept voluntarily, Slovenia should accept 1.03% and 207 people, following the envisaged key that will, of course, continue to be discussed. These are some data requiring a thorough examination and discussion by the competent institutions in our country. Let me draw attention to the fact that, after this proposed resettlement scheme, fewer refugees are destined for Cyprus, Malta and Luxembourg alone, i.e. countries that are economically comparable to us, such as the Czech Republic and Portugal, or by size such as Latvia, and even more. So Slovenia is here in some appropriate position, but this does not mean that we will not have a thorough discussion about this. But what's important is we're talking about people here. We're not talking about percentages, we're talking about numbers, we're talking about people in distress. This is why Slovenia will strive to fulfil its solidarity duty and will also make clear at the level of the European Union that it is necessary to take into account the integration capacity of our country, as well as all the security factors, because we must, in the presence of our solidarity, which I stress and continue to demonstrate, also ensure an adequate level of internal security for our citizens, our citizens. This will be discussed in the government, at the level of ministries before that, and certainly also at the level of the European Union, where I will also be involved at the European Council in June. As you know, the National Assembly will also decide on these matters, as the competent committees here will confirm the positions that the representatives of the Slovenian Government will then represent at the meetings of the various Council formations in Brussels. If I finish. I am pleased with this question, because it is right to say very clearly that Slovenia has been, is and will be solidarity, and this is one of our praiseworthy characteristics. On this occasion, if you allow me, I thank all the citizens and citizens who so far have made such a beautiful presentation of their hearts in this solidarity light, and I guarantee that the government will do its utmost to be solidarity, while at the same time protecting the security interests of our country and the situation in Slovenia, so that citizens and citizens will not be burdened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u24	Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government, thank you for your reply. The fact that direct pressure from refugees is felt only by some Member States does not mean that we can close our eyes in other countries. Let me remind you of the activities of the Social Liberal Government, Dr. Janez Drnovska, who has demonstrated solidarity and accepted 70,000 refugees from the former Yugoslavia to Slovenia. And we survived. Slovenia has already lost its focus on foreign policy since its accession to the European Union. We have a chance to change that. So I want to find out: How will we actively cooperate to ensure that refugees no longer feel the need to leave restless homes at the risk of their lives? So I'm asking you: Is the Slovenian government willing to do more to solve the refugee problem where it actually began? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u26	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. This question is also quite appropriate. In such a short time, it is difficult to answer all the dimensions covered by this issue. The Slovenian government supports all efforts, including the efforts of the European Union as a whole, because it is very important here that we act in synchronously, linked to the fact that there are actually reasons for this refugee and migration problem, which is not least very wide, because we know that very different persons, not only refugees, can be smuggled into migrant groups, but also others. All of this has to be solved with some kind of unified, thoughtful policy. The European Union and Slovenia are committed to tackling the causes of migration themselves as soon as possible, and Slovenia is therefore very supportive of all EU diplomatic efforts at Africa, the Middle East and all these environments that trigger this crisis. We also strongly support preventive and other security measures in order not to come to Europe or even to our country of persons presenting security risks in the context of these migrations. However, it is important to stress, and this has also been highlighted in the European Council, that this must be done in accordance with international law. Europe must not go beyond the principles and rules of international law in addressing these issues. Also on Slovenia's proposal, this position was recorded on the European Council in June, so that Europe is now seeking to be empowered under the auspices of the UN to act more radically, especially against those who are here, I would say, evil, these are smugglers and all those who trade in people and their fates and cause this suffering and death. This is a very broad framework of action, and I am convinced, and I know that our ministries and other institutions, such as the Ministry of the Interior, for defence and within them many other bodies and experts are very intensively involved, are also involved in these issues, so that this will be resolved in the most appropriate way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thirdly, Mr Janez Janša will raise the question to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u29	Your Honor! On 19 April at the end of the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in Washington, the Minister of Finance of this Government surprised by the statement that Slovenia was once again a success story. This has not been discussed for several years, and this comparison has not been used, and its justification has been even more interesting. I will quote, he said: "We carried out pension reform, labour market reform, recapitalisation of banks, we set up a bad bank and a Slovenian state holding company. Slovenia has made structural changes a whole series, so these results are the result of these changes." In Washington it's probably a little harder to bluff than at home, so those real words were spoken there, and we rarely hear them at home. And I want to know: How do you personally assess the results of all these reforms that you have carried out?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u30	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u31	Dear Member, your question is somewhat sinister. But of course, I will answer very seriously, because it also has a serious connotation. Our Minister of Finance, Mr Maramor, in this statement came from a state that has not exactly been established in Slovenia in recent years. In fact, when someone says, Slovenia has done this and that, it has implemented reforms, people are looking for who has done this because of past government practices. The Minister made this statement in the nation-affirming spirit that our government is enforcing. This was done by the State of Slovenia. Thus, we are on a path in which all past, present and tomorrow future governments will take part. I therefore reiterate that our government does not deny the achievements of the past, but of course it also underlines the importance of this government and of all futures for the present and the future. When the minister spoke about all these reforms, pension and others, he certainly thought about transitional periods, for this is a continuous story. In this sense, you may be interested in my attitude or attitude toward this period. Look, none of these reforms have yet been completed in some way. We are awaiting the continuation of the pension reform. We must take a major step in the area of health, namely reform. In fact, we now need to implement the legislation laid down by the previous governments, including those led by you. We have to get this thing to life. In doing so, we note, of course, that there is still a lot to be added to the normative level and that there is a lot to be done in practice now. And sometimes when I listen to comments, he was also present today at the beginning of the session that the government did not propose many laws. Yeah, the government's doing a lot of other things. The government will propose many more laws. Take a look at the normative program for this year. But it's also about politics. In Slovenia we do not suffer so much from this that we have too few laws. We are sick of not implementing them properly and that these laws from the past are in many ways inconsistent and not good enough. There is absolutely no doubt that the measures that have led to these reforms have in some ways been true, they have gone in the right direction, but they have not been upgraded, completed. And this is now the task of this government. However, I have to say that the governments of the time before this global crisis, which struck in 2008, 2009 and immediately after it, have waited too long with these reforms that, in fact, in the time of so-called so-called so-called times, they could say that the fat cows, when Slovenia was not a good path, were not acting in a timely and insufficient way, were not facing a crisis. And the absence of this prevention, of this good governance at a time when you can prepare for difficult times, has also led to an even worse impact on Slovenia’s crisis. Nor did the government act counter-cyclically before the crisis, which was assessed unanimously by the profession as a problem, since the profession recommended counter-cyclical action. Let me sum it up, given what you've just asked the question, we're building on it. We do not deny the achievements of previous governments. However, we must be aware that when our government came into this role when we put it in place, Slovenia was still in a very difficult crisis situation from which we are now slowly, gradually, discreetly breaking out. And so all these measures that you have in mind need to be upgraded. So, let's say in the coming years an additional major intervention in the field of demographic factors will be needed to build up the pension system so far. We are working very hard to make a health reform. However, we need to substantially reform what has not yet been achieved by previous governments, public administrations, remove administrative obstacles and so on. It's absolutely some process. Actually, if I conclude, I'm glad that our minister made a statement in some spirit that we all have to assert. We are all one country, one community, and we are building together forward. That's what we used to say. It is necessary to look to the past with respect, but to learn from mistakes and not repeat them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u32	Mr. Janez Janša, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u33	Look, the Minister's statement is not to be read, and I'm not to her either. As regards the reserves created by Slovenia prior to the 2009 crisis, these were huge. Slovenia was one of the least indebted countries in Europe, in the world at that time. Eight billion was our sovereign debt. Today it's 30 billion. So there were these reserves for 22 billion euros. If they weren't there, we wouldn't have used them. Otherwise, even at the expense of future generations, because of our debt, it is only obvious that other countries have done so, and yet these reserves have been. The real question is how we used them. As for the upgrade, I agree with you, for sure. Especially after the situation that has changed, these reforms, as discussed by the Minister of Finance in Washington, need to be upgraded. But here is an important time dimension. In 2012, the Government adopted all these measures, which were listed by the Minister, within nine months. You now have about the same long term. So one of these upgrades could already be here. Today we begin the May Assembly meeting, and it will be concluded on Wednesday. I have been elected to all the compositions of this Parliament so far, and I do not recall ever having a regular session in May to have one substantive item on the agenda and to be concluded within three days. The government certainly has another job to do, and you are left with an empty agenda, and certainly a lot of time. And I would like to know if at this time you have ever thought about it and you have doubts about your own legitimacy, because, after this last ruling of the Constitutional Court, it is also legally clear that the political competition against which you have won the last state-run elections has been unlawfully eliminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u34	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u35	Dear Mr. Janša! This government works and this government has received an empty bag in its hands with a huge hole from the previous governments, with an abnormally large public debt, given the short time in which we made it, as you say, with many inappropriate practices, including corruption and everything else, which I would not like to mention, because I would really like to look forward to. This government has already established the situation that three key credit rating houses have increased our credit ratings. We're maintaining high-level economic growth. We do not interfere with the economy by demolishing it in order to disrupt predictability, a fragile framework in which it can develop. This government has reached a point where the return on government bonds is the lowest in recent years, even lower than the required return on Spanish and Italian bonds. This government has reached a point where the European Commission has acknowledged that in the last year, of course, it has also achieved the greatest progress in development on the basis of previous favourable developments, which the economy has also encouraged and favourable circumstances. In February, the European Commission found that imbalances in Slovenia were no longer too high. So much for how much this government works. As for legitimacy, of course, I could speak even longer, but there is no time in three minutes — but as for the legitimacy of this government and my legitimacy, I never doubted it, never doubted it. We can talk about this in a special way. There's no time here. This government is legitimate, it's legal and it's doing well. I think that's what we need right now, and that's how we're going to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u36	Mr Janez Janša, you have the floor to request a procedural debate on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I was really going to do that. This upgrade of the reforms discussed in Washington by the finance minister is, of course, a central issue of the quality of life of Slovenians in the near and medium term. This would be worth much discussion, but after this last reply from the President of the Government, who has no doubts about legitimacy, I decided not to ask for a debate. She'd be irrelevant. In fact, with this answer, the President of the Government answered the question himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u38	Mr. Janez Janša, you know this is an abuse of this procedural option. Since you are not asking for a debate, in fact, the only option you have at this point in the debate is to warn you like everyone else. The next one raises the question of mags. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Somehow you have already talked about what the measures are and what the impact of the government on the state currently in Slovenia are, and you basically said that this was somehow the result of all governments. However, I would like to be more specific if you said: How is it, in essence, what are the responses or results of this government's actions? We note, as you yourself said, that in Slovenia we have seen economic growth in recent times, which is above the average in both Europe and the euro area. All international and domestic institutions that assess economic growth forecasts have improved this year and also for the following year. We also note that the number of unemployment in recent years has dropped and shows that at the end of April 2015 there are 114 000 223 unemployed persons registered, 3 000 176 persons and 2.7 % less than in March. However, unemployment is reduced by 7% compared to April 2014. The number of people who are employed is also increasing. From 692 thousand 990 employees in February 2014, this increased to 703 thousand 594 employees in February 2015. These favourable indicators are certainly influenced by external factors. We know that our companies export a lot and we have no influence on the international markets. However, there are also factors that the government can influence by its actions. How do you assess the government's action since October 2014, when we actually started in terms of the contribution that the government's activities had to improve the economic situation of the country? You also mentioned that before the new year, the Republic of Slovenia was in charge of financing the state budget at higher rates than in Spain and Italy. That's how we both got ahead of ourselves this year, and we owe each other cheaper. For example, on Friday, the interest rate on the 10-year bonds of the Republic of Slovenia was well below 10%, and in 2013 it was close to the highest value at 7%. For this reason, I ask you to explain in concrete terms, i.e. for this government: How did the government's actions affect the economic situation of the country? What are those activities that support the government to strengthen favourable economic indicators also in terms of maintaining such a low debt price for the functioning of a country that is only 1 percentage point higher in comparable German interest rates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u40	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u41	Madam Member, thank you very much for the question. I've already mentioned some positive indicators in the previous response, some of which are you. I think it is very important that we are now moving in the right direction, that we are actually slowly but confidently emerging from the crisis, not only is it important that, as we all know, conjunctural movements occur or have been present since last year in Europe and beyond in the euro area and that our exporters work well and so on. It is also important that this government has introduced into our social and political system some greater political stability. Slowly, in the economy, in the financial field as well as in the wider society, although of course this is very slowly, there is more confidence, more confidence in the country, in keeping with some of the ways it has set out. We have also contributed to this feeling with one very important factor, namely social communication. As you know, in a situation that is extremely difficult, in which we immediately had to implement two budget rebalancings, we are beginning to provide very intensive fiscal consolidation. We know that we will have to keep the deficit below 3% and continue to reduce it, especially the structural deficit, which is a particular challenge. At that time, we reached a social agreement with the social partners, which means that we were able to finally agree on some common economic, social and so forth targets after a few years of incapacity. This is the framework in which social partners as well as citizens can therefore feel more confident that we are going in the right direction. Of course, in this direction, the government will, until now and even this year, be sure and also in the future, will pursue two main objectives. If I now focus more on these economic and financial dimensions, because the government also has other dimensions that must be taken into account, of course, social and others. But if I focus on that. On the one hand, we want to boost growth and on the other we want to ensure fiscal consolidation. If I only mention a few factors in terms of growth. In the banking area, we have completed the rehabilitation of the banking system by recapitalising the Bank and the Bank of Celje and transferring bad claims to the DUTB. We have passed a very important law – a law was passed when you said it was not before – a very important law establishing a bank resolution body and fund, which will allow banks to be rehabilitated without public funds in the future. An extremely big step forward. And there's a new banking law. With regard to the extension of enterprises, we have set up working groups to oversee business restructuring procedures, with the preparation of a comprehensive restructuring plan, and we continue with the procedures for supervised restructuring of enterprises. One such example of good practice has recently been the case with Cimosa. In the area of governance of state-owned enterprises, we have made great efforts to draw up a strategy that is in the National Assembly, a strategy for managing state-owned investments, which shows the direction that the final Slovenian state-owned assets are framed according to some professional political and, above all, professionally acceptable standards, as confirmed by the OECD, which also gives us some clear objectives for the country, for shareholders, for the wider capital market and for the general public, that we know where Slovenia is going, that it wants to be a good economy, that we want to cultivate a culture of good governance, that is, a high management culture and so on. At the same time, of course, we continue to privatise. Calmly, thoughtfully, but we continue with this process, as we have committed ourselves, which makes our credibility not drop in international terms, but, as I have said many times before, all of the things that I point out, we are doing in the first place because of ourselves. We have also passed the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, which will enable the company to operate normally in the future. I have already mentioned two budget rebalances, which were very difficult, but of course we already have a health expenditure review under way. Very few measures have been taken and will continue in the field of rationalisation, optimisation of public administration, and we have significantly improved our success in drawing on European funds. We've made progress here for a lot of places. Let me also mention the redefinition of the burden of student work, which is also one of the important indicators that we also want to be active in the labour market. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u42	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 6th and 7th meetings of the National Assembly. First of all, he will be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Dejan Židan answered the question of Bojana Podkrajška regarding the taxation of vegetable processing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! In fact, I have received two questions from Mr Bojan Podkrajška in a way. The first question is: Why do farmers producing vegetables have to register as espas? In fact, agricultural legislation does not provide for this. Farmers can be like a farm, even as an independent entrepreneur, they can also be part-registered and produce vegetables. The second question, which is probably the substantiation of this, is: Why do they have to keep books? This is a question of income legislation which neither the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is responsible for. However, Commissioner, we have obtained the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which is the following. This regulation is not new, as it has been in force in Slovenia since 2007. A similar solution was also implemented by the first Income Act of 2004, which defined crop production and other crops as a basic agricultural activity, including crop production in the field. Therefore, it is not any new obligation that farms should have since 2015. At the same time, I would like to say that I assume that this is also because veggie production is extremely intensive and as such intensive production is not included in the calculation of cadastral income. For farmers can also pay the flat and the flat rate is then calculated through the cadastral income. And allow yet again, Mr Member, fresh information, which is entirely today. As of this year, we are applying the production bond to greenery. So far, this has not happened in Slovenia. However, we want to raise the self-sustainment rate, which is somewhere between 30% and 40%, depending on weather conditions, significantly. And the subsidy campaign, which ended on Friday, 15. 5. it appears that 644 farms have been included in the vegetative linkage measure, which is a thousand 79 hectares, which in practice means that they will benefit from additional production payments. It has to be calculated somewhere. It's probably going to be about a thousand euros per hectare. The question often arises to us why there is an obligation to keep books. But you know the answer. This is a matter of income legislation, which is not our responsibility, but our ministry has a very clear position on this, which I think I will describe in question 36, because you asked me about the Ministry's opinion on the questions that relate to the decisions of farmers and then I will answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u44	Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u45	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, all ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your answer first. Let me say that I asked this question two months ago because we both know, but we all know in the National Assembly, and especially those who are out there dealing with veggies, that we are very poorly self-contained with vegetables. I think about 35% have been produced in Slovenia. If my information holds, we import everything else from foreign countries. My question was, because I find this segment very illogical. I completely understand those processors who are solely engaged in vegetables. However, there is a problem in those farms that have another sector, and we would like to have one part of the production for vegetables. The law says that if more than one type of vegetables are planted per year, espas should be opened. And that's my concern, so this is my question to you, Your Honorable Minister. You simply answered what you checked in the area of the Ministry of Finance, but of course thank you for that fresh information from last week. I would like to draw attention to this area, which I think is important, how can we make it easier for us to produce a lot more healthy vegetables in Slovenia, which our citizens and citizens, especially our schools and kindergartens, would eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u46	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me another explanation. We actually introduced changes last year through the Agriculture Act. You probably still remember the affair when it was found that some sellers in the markets had Slovenian fruit or vegetables and bought it abroad. At that time we decided and very clearly demarcated as regards agricultural registration, as regards registration as a complementary activity and as regards registration as a separate entrepreneur. Where's that line? A farm that produces and sells exclusively its own vegetables is simply a farm. This is a farm that operates as a farm, from the point of view of agricultural legislation, there is no need for invoices to be issued because it is a farm. When a farm that does not have enough of its own products also sells products from its neighbours, we call it local production, which is in practice Slovenia, this farm can still do without any major burdens, but then people who buy on the market know it as a farm with complementary activities. However, if the farm is to expand its quantity of products produced by the farm by purchasing from abroad, which is purely legitimate, it must be registered as a sole entrepreneur so that, once the buyers come to the market, this farm can simply be defined as a farm, but it has the right to purchase from elsewhere. In most cases, farms are satisfied with this new distribution, but individual farms that collect and register as espas wish they could only be a farm. However, in order to protect consumers, I think that this decision, which was adopted last year, is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u48	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc should answer Mr Andrej Couch's question about the Ptuj Emergency Centre, but she is absent today from attending the General Assembly of the World Health Organization in Geneva. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral response or whether he wants a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I would just like to point out that, from the time I asked the oral question, to this day, the circumstances in which I asked the oral question have changed considerably. A draft regulation on the organisation or implementation of emergency medical care has come to the public, from which it can be made clear that an emergency centre is foreseen in Ptuj. That is why, of course, I would like to thank all of you who have listened to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and to my more than one year's efforts to establish an emergency centre. I would, of course, like an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u50	Okay. Let the answer be in writing. But the first part was abuse. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. The first question will be raised by Mrs Jelka Godec to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President and Mr Minister. Since the last time I asked this question, this is somewhere at the end of 2014, and to this day in this area, so in the area of reconstruction of the regional road Dole-Ponikva-Dolga Gora has not changed completely anything in terms of ensuring reconstruction. But in terms of making roads worse, there's a lot. I'd still refresh your memory. In 2008, the Ministry of Transport put this third-order road down-Ponikva-Long Gora into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, based on the findings of Voc Celje, maintenance and renewal of the road, d.d., Šentjur Police Station, Šentjur Municipality and, of course, road users, that the road needs thorough reconstruction. A transport study was carried out and four years later, at its 44th regular session, the State Council addressed the problem of reconstruction or rehabilitation of state roads in areas where motorways and railway infrastructure were built. At the same time, the amendment was also adopted at the initiative of the State Councillor, Mr Koržet, so that all those roads that had been built during the construction of the railway tracks would also be considered a priority for reconstruction. At that time, the Council of State concluded that the damaged state roads needed to be restored, thus giving priority to these roads. In your written reply, you wrote to me in November that there is no money in the 2015 budget for you to work together with the Slovenian Directorate for Roads to provide additional financial resources with a balance sheet. I think that some small funds, some 200 euros, have been provided. I don't know why these funds could help. But something's happening. During these days, railway tracks are being rebuilt in Dugi Gora, Long Mountain–Poljčany. In 2008, the road was again highlighted and by 2012 it was damaged by the reconstruction of railway tracks in the area of Grobelno-Dolga Gora. Now the Long Mountain-Polish is being built, and in the previous week, eight hours and more were being driven by carpenters, i.e. these trucks up to 38 tonnes, at ten minutes two with trailers. Residents started painting their houses. They started to tear down houses. At the same time, the road is being destroyed. In some areas there are literally large networks, caves, etc. I'm asking you: What is the reconstruction timer of this road Dole-Ponikva-Dolga Gora-Loce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u52	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Ambassador Jelka Godec! With regard to the project of reconstruction of this regional road at the section Dole-Ponikva-Long Gora-Loča, several questions already raised, both written and oral, have already been raised. We've already exchanged. And in fact, on the last, we have somehow concluded with this information that we will strive to ensure, in the 2015 budget rebalancing, that we will try to provide the appropriate resources that could enable the continuation of this project, which was already set up in 2008. Regrettably, I still have to continue somehow in this sense that, even after the rebalancing of this project, the funds are not provided to the extent possible to ensure the continuation of any works. In fact, this year, after all the legally binding obligations that the Directorate must provide for the implementation of the compulsory public service, in fact, for investment maintenance and for new sections, some EUR 2 million remain available. Over the course of the year, we will try to redistribute from other items where work will either not be carried out in the amount envisaged, otherwise to provide funds for some other most urgent but at the scale of smaller projects. In this particular case, however, it is a rather large investment. The estimated value is €21 million and, of course, it must be calculated that this investment will take place gradually for several years. The timetable you're asking for is why I can't give it to you right now. As it is said, these funds are not now provided. However, we will strive to provide them with budgets in the coming years. To what extent it is also impossible to provide anything now. However, I can say that in order to ensure adequate funding, both regular, investment maintenance and new investments in road and rail infrastructure, we will be working at the Ministry to establish a so-called infrastructure fund, which will represent a permanent dedicated source of resources, which will also allow for some planning of maintenance and also new constructions on road and rail infrastructure. Our goal is to provide some continuous source, which will then provide some longer-term planning over the years, and in this way we can also predict when any single section can come into line. But at this point, I'm sorry, I can't give you any timetable. I can only say that we will strive to start in the coming year, that is to say, the production of project documentation and then, depending on the other available resources, also with the other stages of investment. It's a buy-back, and then it's a construction. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u54	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you very much. It's true, you didn't promise anything new, you didn't say anything. In 2011, we can read that the 2011 budget does not provide funding, but will be in 2012. We can read this in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015. The road was included in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2008. I want to draw attention to something I said earlier. There's nothing to keep this road going. There's no road on this road, no road, no bank. On this road, I repeat, during the previous week due to the reconstruction of the railway tracks, it was unsustainable to walk through the village. Since children leave school, there is no sidewalk, and the kesonaries drive from 70 to 80 kilometers an hour. Residents called for a line job to want radar on the road. Part operators were warned. But these were vehicles full of cars, so I didn't say how those who were empty were driving. So one is the safety of the children, the inhabitants, when the trucks drive through the village. It's the same when it's used for the highway. There they drive trailers and cars whose drivers do not know the roads and so on. The road is narrow, the banks aren't driving. If you want to meet another car, you have to stop. And given that you are nodding, Mr Minister, I urge you once again to stop or stop talking at the Ministry: and next year we may be able to provide some funding. People are literally calling for the closure of the road. I'm afraid that's what I told you at the beginning of the year, but I wouldn't want this to happen in this area to close the road. The inhabitants of Šentjur also warn, because these kesonaries are also driving across the city of Šentjur, because there is no traffic of the city to join the action. And you will have a rebellion in the congregation of Šentjur, and then perhaps the matter will move somewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u56	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I am able to provide this additional information, which I must say, but I did not know that, at the time of the reconstruction of the railway infrastructure or of the modernisation, this heavy freight traffic is being carried out in this section, I can ensure that we will check what the possibilities are for the smoothing of this traffic alone, and the other is, then, what are the possible possibilities for compensation for the damage caused by the damage to any of them even in this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u58	Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to ask for a procedural discussion on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u59	I'll say so, Mr. Secretary, the damages won't be enough, you'll have to fix the road, otherwise you'll give too much money for compensation. And I'm sorry, Mr President, for this, I respectfully invite you to come to the congregation of Šentjur and take a look at this state road and perhaps we'll discuss it more easily. No, please send the officers, but come alone. You will also receive an invitation publicly or officially to an e-mail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u60	Yes, but today you're all in this procedural last rather equal. In fact, no one asks for a debate because they already know what the result will be, and they call for something else. I have to warn you about that, too. The question is now raised by Mr Luka Mesec, the Minister of Finance, Dr Dushan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question concerns the privatisation of Telekom and the recent disclosures to be made in the sales of Telekom or in the sales process of the negotiations between Deutsche Telekom and the current most likely acquirer, says the British Cinven Fund. Telekom's privatisation process has been a problem for some time. Most of the public opposes it, and most economic and developmental arguments are against it, but it has evolved to binding offers. But not without complications, as I said at the beginning. On 8 May 2015, Mladina reported that the secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Methods of Dragonja, and Minister of Economy Zdenko Restoration for the Week Mladina, had revealed that they had information about the related performance of the Cinven Fund, now the only provider for the takeover of Telekom, and Deutsche Telekom, which had previously been considered a priority for the takeover, had already carried out similar projects in the region. Cinven is already troubled by the fact that he is a venture capital fund and is therefore unlikely to be the long-term strategic owner of Telekom, at least in the event of a takeover. The business logic of these funds is based on buying, restructuring, saying, lowering costs, forgiving employees or in some other way optimising value and then selling it. They are said to be powered from this margin, from the difference between the purchase price and the sale price. This practice has already been demonstrated by Cinven in certain European telecommunications companies, and we believe that the case of Slovenian Telekom will not be significantly different. Another member of the government who did not want to be appointed, among other things, revealed to some Slovenian media that the role of Cinven in the sale of Telekom should be exactly that, it is said that he buys it, does dirty work, says he forgives workers, optimizes costs and then sells it to Deutsche Telekom. For these reasons, I am interested in: Have you, as Minister of Finance and the whole government, as stated in the Week of Youth, been familiar with these practices? If you were, how and when did the government get this information? I'm still wondering: Are you defending the sale of Telekom Cinven? If so, why and under these conditions? If these arrangements have occurred, are you still defending and ordering any additional measures to clarify this story that has recently opened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u62	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u63	Commissioner Luka Mesec, thank you for this question. As you probably know, the Ministry of Finance of these individual privatisation procedures run by SDH cannot explain because, in accordance with Article 15 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, SDH is the sole authority to carry out the procedures independently and is not bound by any consent or restriction. From the information available to the general public about the activities so far, I can explain the following. In an interview with the Finance Officer on 28 January, Nicolas Paulmier from Cinven publicly explained their objectives in case of successful purchase of Telekom. These objectives are: maintaining a seat in Slovenia, the autonomy of a company led by local management, rationalising business, investing in infrastructure for about 100 million euros, not paying dividends and ultimately selling the company, usually through a public offering on one of the exchanges. The fact that Cinven intends to sell this in the end in case of successful purchase of Telekom is not a secret. If we include the latest public information that Deutsche Telekom Slovenije is expected to withdraw from the competition, as you mentioned, there is, of course, also an assumption of the alleged linkage of both competitors or their alleged coordination of operations. Nevertheless, the statements made by the journalist for the weekly Mladina regarding the statement made by the Secretary of State Method Dragonje were wrong and unfair, as he did not make such a statement, nor was he asked by the journalist to make a statement, but at an inappropriate time, they only exchanged a few words about the matter, which the journalist used and all the words of the Secretary of State took gravely from the context of the informal discussion. With regard to the issue of my defence, I will put this in quotations, and I would like to reiterate once again that this is in line with the Slovenian State Holding Act, the professional and independent competence of SDH, which leads the process. This is based on the 2013 decision of the National Assembly on the privatisation of 15 state-owned companies. This decision was adopted at the time of the biggest financial crisis, from which we can also resolve ourselves on the basis of this Decision, this is without international intervention or a threesome. The decision is that our scope of state ownership in EU countries is one of the highest and at the same time one of the least profitable, i.e. poorly managed, signaled to international financial institutions, investors and credit rating agencies that the Republic of Slovenia will nevertheless be able to repay all its financial obligations. The proposal for a capital investment management strategy adopted by the government last week also adds measures to improve corporate governance of the remaining state ownership in enterprises. Privatisation issues – yes or no are therefore questions about the liquidity of Slovenia and its competitiveness, credibility and credibility. Further confirmation of the continuation of the sales procedures pursuant to the 2013 decision of the National Assembly was also given by SDH to the National Assembly in its current composition, as all proposals for the repeal of this Decision from 2013 were already rejected by a large majority at the meetings of the National Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. SDH therefore still has all the necessary legal bases to complete these sales procedures, including Telekom Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u64	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you. Yes, I understand that SDH has all the legal powers to complete this process. However, I am interested, you are a finance minister and it is up to you to verify at least that if there are reasonable suspicions that there has been a deal between the current acquirer and the most likely strategic owner who has already bought certain similar companies abroad and has also been publicly interested in purchasing. I think that here, if there is an agreement, you, as Minister of Finance, should also check that everything in these procedures has been carried out in accordance with Slovenian legislation. With regard to the suggestions or responses of Mr Dragonje to Youth, I do not know. I went to look for quotes and it says here very clearly what Dragon Methods for the Weeknik said. He said because they asked him if he was familiar with the documents that showed that Cinven was supposed to agree with Deutsche Telekom to come up with what they were asking, and Draganja's method said, "Yes, that's what we figured." He added: "If we look at the activities of the two bidders, it is nothing more than a coordinated operation with a view to maximising the value of the share or business." Even more direct was Minister Zdravko Restovalšek, says the economic minister, who asked if he was aware that Cinven was connected to Deutsche Telekom or that he was involved in the purchase of Slovenian Telekom, I quote: "Yes." And I'm interested in this: Does that hold? If you have been familiar with it, will you take action?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u66	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you, for that additional question. I'd just say, of course I checked. At this stage of verification, I have no evidence that this was a related operation. What I said about the statement Method Draganje is what was also reported to me. There's something else I'd like to say. It might be wise to know that Slovenia has reached one relatively high level of trust by international institutions and that is why the interest rate fell to Ireland in February. Following all of these developments around Telekom, the interest rate rose again above that level of Ireland by about 45 basis points. And if we recalculate it now at about some assumption that our entire debt is now 45 basis points higher than it could be. This is about € 125 million. All these activities cost us enormously.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u68	Luka Mesec, you have the floor to request a procedural debate on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u69	Given that it is worrying that our international credibility is based on the fact that the financial funds trust us and lower interest rates for us because we are prepared for financial funds such as Cinven, in taking over strategic firms, to look through our fingers and forget here even on our own legislation, if we build trust, these are very problematic practices, and I think that the advocates of privatisation and those who apply it should keep at least that hygienic minimum, that if companies are already selling, should be sold at least in accordance with existing legislation or if there are reasonable suspicions that there has been a breach of this legislation, that things should be checked and clarified before the proceedings continue. Otherwise, such funds or buyers shall be excluded from the proceedings. That is why I propose that because the Minister has shown no interest in any such matter, we should then hold a debate in the National Assembly or perhaps also on a working body or on an investigative committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u70	The procedure relates primarily to the debate in the National Assembly. Mr Igor Zorčič will now raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u71	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Mr. Secretary! Your predecessor, Mr. Sam Omerzel, is 20. 8. 2015 issued the Regulation on examination centres for driving examinations for motor vehicles. This Regulation suspended the performance of a practical part of the driving test in certain places such as Brežice, Velenje, Ilirska Bistrica, Ajdovščina, Tolmin, Idrija, Zagorje ob Savi, Kočevje. The amended Regulation has caused a lot of bad will in the local community, especially the ones I counted. In this regard, a meeting was also held at the Ministry of Infrastructure, I think, in January 2014, with representatives of the municipalities, who presented to you the difficult consequences of the amended Regulation. However, it follows from the information provided by both the representatives of the municipalities and the explicit question of the State Council that the Ministry will nevertheless examine these proposals and concerns and, in this regard, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, or through this Agency, examine the possibility of alternative proposals, which is to understand that in essence these practical driving trainings may be returned to some of these locations. I want to know: How far is it from the Ministry to study this possibility of returning to the places mentioned or when changes in this direction can be expected in these places? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u72	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Member, Mr Igor Zorčič, at the outset, I would like to explain that the Regulation has been introduced in order to ensure a comparable level of knowledge comparison between all test centres. In short, candidates at any test centre should be given the opportunity to carry out these examinations in a comparable manner. This has not been ensured until the entry into force of this Regulation, following the assessment of the Agency implementing these matters, and these amendments have therefore been introduced. At that time, it was also envisaged that examination runs should be discontinued for certain categories in certain examination centres. This was followed by opposition in the thronged congregations, and we organized two meetings with the mayors of these municipalities at the Ministry. However, several meetings were also held within the framework of the Transport Safety Agency. At the last meeting, however, the first one was in January, as already mentioned, at the last meeting held in this April at the Ministry, it was agreed that the Transport Safety Agency would be able to start a practical journey in additional places during this trial period during a period of one month. At that time, we agreed to comply with the service users and to start driving in their place. We also agreed that some of the driving features would be checked in larger places because they could not be checked in those places where it was envisaged to stop driving exams, that is, in places where it was not possible to check driving through motorways or driving through traffic traffic on four lanes or when changing lanes, there was no possibility of checking driving in a wide variety of traffic. In short, these were reasons that could not be provided equally in certain smaller places. Therefore, in order to enable the examination to take place in a place such as this, it is necessary to ensure that these additional elements are checked and, consequently, the examination at certain locations will have to be longer to verify these options. It will also take more than those normal 50 minutes. The Agency will also send a letter to the driving schools before the implementation of practical driving in the abandoned areas, explaining how these examinations will be carried out and how they will be carried out. After the end of the trial period, we will meet again with representatives of the local communities and analyse the situation, especially here we think we will see how many candidates will actually benefit from this opportunity to conduct these examinations in their own place or rather decide to perform the examination at the examination centre and therefore have a shorter examination ride. In short, we will analyse these matters and on this basis we will then decide and harmonise on any amendments to the rules of procedure. Otherwise, at this last meeting in April, it was agreed that during this trial period we would make the following changes, namely in Idrija, Tolmin, Ajdovščina, Ilirski Bistrica will be implemented, the possibility of starting exams for B category exams is realized. In Lithuania, the implementation of the examinations of categories A1, A2 and A will be added, in accordance with the Agency’s options, as well as the B examination of the category. In Kočev and Montenegro, the start of exams for all categories, and not only for category B as before, and in Brežice it is possible to carry out exams for categories A1, A2, A and B. As short as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u74	The next question will be raised by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the Minister of Justice of the Magi. To Goran Klemenčič, who is unfortunately absent, I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral answer or whether he wants a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course I'd like an oral answer. Today, the State Prosecutor's Council decides on the fate of Mr Fischer's Attorney General. I now intended to speak with the Minister about what he would do after that decision. This decision can, of course, be as natural as it should be under the circumstances, and this is that the State Prosecutor's Council proposes to the National Assembly to resolve Mr Fischer. But, of course, it can be the other way around. This decision is not yet known because the State Prosecutor's Council, as far as I know, has not yet taken a decision at today's meeting, but this decision can also be such as to protect Mr Fischer. Of course, it can also be one that does not somehow go hand in hand with the conduct of the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice, which means that they will decide one day later. Maybe in 2016 or 2017, eventually later. That's why I was going to ask the minister: What will he do when this decision is known? Of course, I also ask him that question, and I expect an answer at the next meeting. However, let me explain, of course, that the State of Slovenia is the only country currently holding a person suspected of corruption at the head of the prosecution's organisation. So the person who has acted corruptly is not a suspect, but a person who has acted corruptly on the Commission's report to prevent corruption is even more. Slovenia has a person who misused power at the top of the prosecution's organisation. I don't know if the depth of these two words, which stem from the judgement of the Administrative Court, is understood by most people here or by most people at all. In view of the fact that he is an official, this is the Prosecutor, the first Prosecutor of the State, after finding a court which has definitively established that the complaint is no longer possible to abuse the authority in the case of the appointment of the Attorney General, the Director of the Attorney General. There is no lack of abuse of power in this country, nor in the judicial branch of power. However, the key issue in this regard is the conduct of those responsible and who can influence it. This is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the Minister of Justice and not least because these two somehow avoided this responsibility, this is the conduct of the largest coalition party related to the Attorney General. The largest coalition party, of course, acted as one would expect, the gentleman will leave if not, of course not. So I'm asking the Minister: How will he proceed with the decision of the State Prosecutor’s Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u76	Mrs Iva Dimic will now ask the question to the Minister of Health, Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is unfortunately absent, and so I ask her whether she wants a written or oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u77	I'd like an oral response, President. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the public debate, there is now a proposal for a new regulation on emergency medical care, aimed at reorganising this area in order to increase the speed and efficiency of the treatment of patients' acute conditions. The planned discontinuation of the continued care of doctors in health care facilities and the transition to emergency medical care to the extent and in the manner envisaged in the new Emergency Medical Regulations will make the quality and speed of emergency medical care for patients in the outermost areas worse. I can say with certainty that this will also happen in the area of Notranjska, specifically in the areas of the Municipality of Blocke, Loška Valley, Cerknica and also Logatca. This area is largely rural, with a very scattered settlement, if I present only the place of the field of Babel. This place is more than half an hour's drive from Cerknica and the infrastructure of the road to this place is in very poor condition and access to this place in this system is difficult and bad. When planning, establishing the nearest satellite emergency centre in Postojna, the time of intervention for the most urgent cases in this area will continue to deteriorate. As a result of geographical characteristics, Cerknice, Loška Valley and Blocke must have their own satellite emergency centre in order to provide citizens with effective and prompt medical care at least to the extent that they have received it so far. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister: Will the planned network of satellite emergency centres be expanded with new centres, including the Cerknica Satellite Emergency Centre? I would like to point out once again that the preparation of the proposal probably did not take into account where, how and what roads were connected and all the other infrastructure to bring this together. I therefore stress once again that there are more than 130 very remote settlements in these municipalities and I expect a positive response, above all, from the understanding of citizens and citizens that we all need urgent medical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Mr Franz Jurša, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Dear Minister! The Pension Disability Insurance Fund was established for the purpose of managing housing and housing and other buildings, which were primarily built by means of pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Slovenia or were built for pensioners as well as for national liberation fighters. The Fund is therefore intended to provide non-profit services for the purpose of renting, housing and housing for pensioners and other elderly persons. More and more pensioners who are unable to pay the rent of these apartments are turning to me personally and to our Group of Members. The fact is that the previous ZPIZ-1 pension law made it clear that it was non-profit rents, whereas the new pension law of ZPIZ-2 did not provide for non-profit rents and increases from year to year. The rules and statutes of the Fund, however, provide that the rent is first and foremost formed in a non-profit manner. It also claims that the legislation has been amended and has increased the conditions for obtaining subsidies to rents, but there are increasing numbers of pensioners with extremely low pensions who are unable to pay these costs. That's why I want to know: What is the number of unpaid rents? Does the fund possibly account for debts? What's the number? Does the Fund cancel rentals or leases due to unpaid rents? How many of these cases are there? The biggest indignation of people is that the new pension law has left out the term of non-profit rent. This has led to the Fund operating under market principles, which is said to be following as much profit as possible. This certainly does not mean the implementation of the government’s social policy on the protection of older people – or is it? How will the Ministry approach this issue? Are you planning to turn PIZ-2 in order to legally determine the non-profitability of these rentals? The pensions of our pensioners have been frozen for years, while the fund raises rents with inflation rates. What is your comment, will the Ministry's representative on the Fund's Supervisory Board act in this direction and how?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Kopač Dark will answer. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Thank you, Mr. Jursha, for the question. The changes in the type of housing provided by the real estate fund, which was indeed the result of the amendment of the ZPIZ-2, are due to compliance with the new housing law. The 1991 Housing Law did not yet know the category of rented dwellings, but since 1991 it has separated the dwellings into a category of profitable, professional, non-profit and social ones. So that's what the housing law was like. Since the real estate fund was established to provide housing to a particular category of the population and the housing law did not know such a category, the dwellings were entered in the rental contracts as non-profit, as close as possible to the purpose of providing adapted dwellings specifically for the needs of pensioners and other elderly. The amended housing law, i.e. Amendment 1, has so far combined the social housing category with the non-profit category and the category of profitable compensations with the category of market rents and introduced a new category of rental apartments and defined the housing provided. The objective of the Real Estate Fund is to provide housing for pensioners and other elderly persons. This amendment to the ZPIZ-2 implies compliance with housing law, as the Real Estate Fund does not provide social housing, since the selection of tenants has never been carried out according to the criteria for social housing. The real estate fund has also never had the status of a non-profit organisation, nor has it been entered in the register of such organisations at the competent ministry, which means that it was not obliged to comply with the prescribed rules for these organisations. The properties of the Real Estate Fund also do not fall within the category of commercial rental apartments, so only the category of rented dwellings remains for these dwellings in accordance with Housing Act 1 which is also actually the case. As far as the issue raised in the question is concerned, I am certainly aware that, at the average level of pensions, older people have growing difficulties in providing rental funds, and these issues need to be addressed by amending the housing law envisaged for the following year. And there, too, the Ministry of Environment and Space is already negotiating a clearer definition of social housing and then a comprehensive arrangement for the entire population of social housing. Of course, there can also be a debate on whether, if the Real Estate Fund changes its status, it provides primarily social housing for the older population, which would, of course, change the rules and also the statutes of the Real Estate Fund. However, this is not necessarily related to the amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act as well as to the basic law, which is the housing law. As far as the number of non-payments is concerned, I have spoken to the director in the office today. We have not obtained this information because, above all, it is necessary to state exactly what is considered to be non-payments, since when, which accounts are open, claims. However, we agreed that we would also see if the Real Estate Fund would join the debt write-off, which would, of course, be for the most vulnerable. So if someone who is a tenant is a recipient of a protective allowance, which for the elderly population or financial social assistance has received, if they have open claims, the Real Estate Fund could join this project to write off the most vulnerable debts. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mag. Anže Logar will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government said earlier that you had committed a state-of-the-art act abroad when you said that Slovenia was once again a success story. This is a situation that I believe every Slovenian and Slovenian citizen wants, but this is certainly a statement that requires a more detailed analysis despite all the macroeconomic indicators. In view of this statement that Slovenia is once again a success story, it was then continued in a statement by the Prime Minister of the Government that it will release in the future some measures that have hampered the growth of social transfers and other measures in the field of the social state and, of course, public sector measures. So far, from the mouth of the Minister of Finance and other representatives, in particular, on the Committee on Finance, we have heard the thesis several times, or a statement that precisely the promised economic growth allows for much less time in the context of the country's macroeconomic financial planning. This is also followed by the national development programme sent by the Government to Brussels by the end of April, where it forecasts 2.25% of the budget deficits for 2016, which is less than ten tenths of this year. Given that economic growth, even though the President of the Government here says it is at a high level, we all know that this economic growth is still quite modest compared to those economic growth that was at the time of the transition. That's why I'm asking: What concrete measures and what development programmes with effect in 2016 will the Government take, at the proposal of the Minister of Finance, to achieve the budgetary deficit at that level? Does the Minister of Finance relate only to good economic growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dusan Maramor will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador Anja Logar for the question. It is true that in this process, the Government has drawn up a National Reform Programme for 2016-2017 and then a National Reform Programme for 2018 and 2019, and on the basis of this also a Stability Programme, which represents the values of the frameworks in which we will move publicly. In this national reform programme, it has listed a number of measures that it will apply in the coming period, according to this year and the following year. Of course, these measures will then have effects further until 2019 with the aim of achieving a structural deficit of zero in 2020. The key thing, and I have repeatedly stressed – and this has also been accepted by the Government – to achieve this goal that the structural deficit will actually be zero in 2020 is economic growth. That's number one. Without economic growth, as we have seen in a number of countries, you just, in your own words, turn into spirals down. To accelerate economic growth, we have foreseen a range of measures. The first measures relate to the area of investment promotion, and these are all measures that eliminate such restrictions on financing, such as small, medium-sized enterprises, active activity within the Junker programme, then improving the quality of investments that have been relatively poor in the past, with a multiplier of the money invested in the gross domestic product of 0.7, so one euro has given 0.7 euros of gross domestic product, specific measures are intended for this area. This second area of focus for this national reform programme is then the area of structural reforms. One part of these structural reforms concerns improving the business environment, which will stimulate economic growth, for example, it is a competitive business environment and ease of business. The first is the reduction of administrative burdens. One of these is the simplification of tax procedures, we now have a group working on it and preparing for the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act. Then there are key changes in spatial planning for building and putting into a place where we have one of the biggest problems with these administrative constraints, and there are changes to the type of legislation that is supposed to make this area more effective. Then again, there is the tax area where we have agreed with the social partners to restructure tax burdens by reducing the tax burden on work and increasing the tax burden on property. In particular, I will be able to highlight another area, namely the justice system, which must become significantly more effective, and we have foreseen what measures would increase the effectiveness of the justice system. Then these structural changes, which concern direct public finances, are, for example, in this demographic area where Slovenia is indeed in an extremely difficult situation. To put it simply, we have too long a study, we retire too quickly, it is logical to focus on changes in higher education and try to achieve a more effective higher education with a faster conclusion. On the other hand, it will be necessary to extend working time in line with life expectancy. At the same time, we will have measures that will allow more of those who are now permanently unemployed to join the active population. This can increase economic growth. In short, in addition to other public funding measures, these measures will contribute to the reduction of 2.25% of the deficit at the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Anže Logar, if you please, request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. I also thank the Minister for his answers. However, your word was particularly about some general long-term measures, for which Members and, of course, also citizens and citizens have not yet seen concretely in the proposals of the laws. In the beginning, Mr Cerar said that when they took over the government, it was a bit empty. You are already forecasting a record low financial deficit or budget deficit for the Slovenian situation in 2016. I wonder on the basis of what – to remind me, the Public Finance Balance Act expires in 2015, worth €250 million. Minister Kopač Mrakova announced the release of some social transfers. Minister Erjavec has announced the reconciliation of pensions. Ms Kolar Celarc announced in her comments the opening of new negotiations for the payment system in public servants. These amounts don't usually go down, but they go up. Then we have stopped privatisation, de facto stopped privatisation. Two, the risk of lawsuits by former Yugoslav savers relating to NLB 500 million euros, subordinated bonds ranging from EUR 60 to 600 million, and the deadline for the submission of the 2016 budget is 30. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On all the measures that you have listed, Minister, I do not know about any of them, and I ask you: How will you reconcile the budget to the mentioned level 2.25? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. In fact, these are the limits you listed, the limits are elsewhere. Thus, the general government revenue in 2016 is projected to be slightly lower than in 2015 and it is envisaged that these short-term measures will be changed to long-term measures. This is what all those who have been in the ZUJF and who have ceased to be in force, as well as those who are in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and will cease to be in force. It's only possible to replace it. In short, if certain measures are not extended, measures will have to be taken which are being extended, but which will be permanent, at the same level. This was an agreement and it is also stated in the National Reform Programme. From this point of view, I believe that this plan is a framework in which, overall, it will be closed publicly. With regard to halting privatisation, I would only say that it is currently in the process of privatising 10 companies, which remain privatised. With the new strategy adopted by the Government, there are 62 other companies that will be able to hold majority private capital. This is said to be difficult to claim that privatisation with this document has been suspended. And that's the framework in which we're going to move. Of course, budgetary procedures are now starting, the framework is being given, they begin and within them will also agree on measures that are not yet in preparation. Some of them have already been adopted in the Government, some are in the final stages of drafting legislative changes and others will be adopted by the end of the year. After all, we have succeeded in essentially rebalancing with all possible measures, 54 measures, for two budgets from 1 October to the end of the year, practically by the end of the year. So I still count on all these measures to achieve this framework. This framework 2.25 is, of course, the framework set by European legislation requiring 0.6% of the structural deficit, as much as the structural deficit needs to be reduced in 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar, procedurally, please. Procedural proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you, Chairman. I need to find out that the Minister was not specific in his response. In fact, it has announced the extension of the short-term measures from the ZUJF to the long-term. The President of the Government just one hour ago praised the fact that, in the context of the social dialogue, they had agreed on measures to ensure the financial sustainability of the two budget rebalances. Look, up to 30. 9. There is very little time and I doubt that the Ministry of Finance or the Government will agree on these short-term measures agreed upon in the social dialogue in the long term. This is why it is only in some way an academic debate that has no basis in the real functioning of the Government. Talking about how the budget for 2015 is a good example of how to align the budget with the measures is in fact a bad example. In fact, it is worth remembering that the budget balance has brought in an additional EUR 200 million deficit. In this case, when we speak 2.25%, we must reduce this debt. And because I am also surprised that the Minister did not mention one key, namely the adoption of a fiscal rule, between the measures that he had taken and those which he had given, in particular the general ones. I am concerned about this budgetary planning for the coming year, and therefore I would like to hold a public debate in this regard at the next meeting and that the Minister of Finance on the issues at stake and announced measures will come before Members and Members with a well-designed response and with concrete proposals on how he intends to align the revenue and expenditure of the national budget in accordance with the National Reform Programme forecast for the financial year 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar will decide on your proposal to the National Assembly tomorrow, 19. 5. In the context of the votes. The question will be raised by Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister! Promoting investments aimed at both domestic and foreign investors contributes positively to the growth of the economy and, of course, to strengthening the development of each country. Now, if I limit myself to foreign investment a little bit, it is among the positive features that it is particularly important to understand the additional capital source, the path to new technologies and other knowledge and, of course, also access to new markets. In particular, investment promotion has a positive impact on the decision-making of foreign investors to establish and manage activities in a country. It is therefore important for the country to increase its attractiveness for these investments by appropriate policy. The most important investment incentives for both domestic and foreign investors include fiscal incentives such as a lower tax base, tax exemption for newly established companies, accelerated depreciation, tax relief. Financial incentives include grants, loans under more favourable conditions, guarantees, incentives for employment, research and development and so on. Of course, there are other incentives, such as assistance in providing services to investors, assistance in infrastructure itself, various industrial parks, free trade zones and so on. If we are on top of state ownership in Slovenia, we are, unfortunately, entirely on the tail, compared to other European countries as regards foreign investments. In 2012, according to my assessment, we introduced a number of positive measures that should at least encourage investors, namely, reducing only the corporate income tax, where it later stopped at 17%, which was basically the target of 15%, increased the incentives for investment in development and research and development to 100%, increased the aid to invest in equipment to 40%, but a further step should be taken from here. If we look at some countries, we see that from the point of view of attracting foreign investors, many new jobs are available. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What fiscal and financial incentives for investment can we promise in Slovenia? I am aware that the Ministry of the Economy is responsible for the creation of a policy to promote foreign investment, but in particular the law on fiscal incentives applies to you, which is why I am asking you this question. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Dusan Maramor, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u95	Dear Member Susana Pretty Šimenko, thank you very much for this question. Indeed, part of this question concerns the Ministry of the Economy, but I agree that the Ministry of Finance plays a very important role. First of all, I would like to say that the various international studies at EU level, the OECD, the World Bank, including foreign chambers, foreign embassies, find that the negative factors affecting the attractive business environment are not mainly high taxes or non-stimulating tax policies, but these factors relate mainly to the inflexible labour market, high contributions, administrative barriers, legal security, logistics infrastructure and so on. In doing so, I point out that, in recent years – as you have already said – much has already been done in the field of tax policy, with the aim of decommissioning business operators and directly attracting foreign investors. I wouldn't say that again. Perhaps I would just add that, for example, companies also have additional benefits in certain areas of Pomurje and in problem areas with high unemployment, as they can impose higher tax rates, higher tax incentives for employment and investment than in other areas of Slovenia. All of these changes in recent years, in comparison, mean that the nominal rate of corporate income taxation decreased by 8 percentage points or more than 30% between 2006 and 2013. An effective tax rate, according to tax measurement, was 12 % in 2013 and almost 6 % in comparison with 2006. The international comparison shows that the nominal rate of corporate income taxation in Slovenia is much lower than the average nominal rate of taxation in EU Member States. For example, for 2014 it is 22.9%. That Slovenia is already achieving good results in the area of tax competitiveness, it also confirms the data on the tax competitiveness index, this is, for example, the publication International Tax Competitiveness, according to the tax competitiveness index, Slovenia has ranked tenth. The result of Slovenia in the corporate tax category was particularly excellent. In this category, Slovenia is in fourth place among the 34 OECD members, mainly due to the low level of corporate income tax. It is true, however, that, on the other hand, when it comes to taxation of labour, especially taxation of the labour of those with higher incomes, Slovenia is not competitive. That is why we will focus and also have adopted a social agreement to restructure tax burdens mainly from these areas. As I said before, tax advantages are only one part of the environment that promotes investment, and above all other areas that are very problematic for Slovenia. Administrative barriers in three areas are usually highlighted. The first is the area, and let us give because the area of the Ministry of Finance, sometimes the first, sometimes the second, sometimes the third, is the tax procedure, tax uncertainty for taxpayers. That is why we have dealt specifically with these administrative constraints. The second area, which is usually the first area, is the area of permits, notably building permits, environmental permits. This is another area, as I mentioned earlier in the National Reform Programme, which we are dealing with by amending legislation and regulations in this area. And the third area that is most highlighted is the area of the legal system, which is ineffective, which lasts too long. This is also what we wrote in the National Reform Programme. So I'm gonna run out of time. Here is the whole species, for example, the internationalisation programme, the introduction of a single contact point, and then the promotion of investments by all those financial institutions, the Enterprise Fund, the SID Bank, the Eco-Fund, and so on, which focuses their funds on better financing for SMEs in particular. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Susan Lepi Šimenka, supplement or request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully agree with you that in several areas we need to make a move if we are to encourage investment. But anyway, tax advantages and incentives are one part, and this is exactly the part that goes directly to your department, so that you might want a slightly more concrete answer to whether there are any changes in this area. What has been said in this area has already been changed in 2012. It was a wish that, in particular, the profit tax would be reduced to 15%, but it stopped at 17% in 2013. I want to know: What are the new tax incentives or fiscal incentives? I might want to define myself here specifically. How do you feel about accelerated amortization itself? If we look at neighbouring Austria, the depreciation rates are set only for buildings and cars, they have a free decision around the other funds. If we look at Ireland, which is somehow considered to be the most successful country in terms of promoting foreign investors, not least in the last 30 years they have attracted more than a thousand foreign companies – leading pharmaceutical, financial and internet institutions – and have again 90,000 new jobs for 2018 and, of course, they also use accelerated depreciation. What do you think about that? And also perhaps following Austria's example, a minimum tax rate for newly established companies. What exactly do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. My opinion is, I gave it when I was a finance minister for the first time to do one analysis and then we repeated it somewhere in 2012, it seems to me, with regard to the impact of the reduction of taxes, in particular the profit tax, on investment and, above all, foreign direct investment. And the result was relatively poor. It is said that we cannot expect very much of this and it has turned out that other factors at this level, as we are now, are more important than just continuing to reduce the tax burden. This was also found by the economists themselves, whom we had in the negotiations on the social agreement, who themselves found that, let's say, slightly simpler, it is significantly less painful to have a slightly higher effective tax rate on the income of legal persons in order to be particularly hurt by the taxation of these best experts they have in companies. And that's why we decided to do this restructuring. This restructuring is definitely going to happen. The task force is working on it. I would not like to prejudge what these arrangements will be because it consists of experts, economists and, on the other hand, people from the Ministry. But it will definitely go this way, as I have just stated. In this context, the accelerated depreciation also, of course, reduces the corporate income tax again. That's what they say, that's all in this context.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počivšku. In view of the absence of the Minister, I ask that you also define yourself to the way in which the reply is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In the introduction, I will expect an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. In early February 2015, a social agreement was signed between the social partners, in which the Government committed itself not to burden the economy further. However, the Government of the Agreements does not adhere to or implement them only in part. An example of this is the introduction of tax registers that will further burden the economy, especially craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. Instead of additional burdens on the economy, the Government should implement proposals for a better business environment coming from the economy. It is also one of the biggest problems burdening the economy, too many rules and rules that constantly change and impose new and higher obligations on the economy. The economy also repeatedly recalls the need to reduce labour costs, which are significantly too large, as this also makes the Slovenian economy difficult to compete or is completely uncompetitive in the European and global economic areas. If we compare Slovenian income classes with the income scales of comparable countries, we can find that Slovenian taxpayers with relatively low incomes compared to their Italian, Austrian, German, Polish, Czech and Latvian counterparts fall into a highly progressive rate of income taxation. As a result, labour costs are incomparably higher than those with which Slovenia competes on the world market and their net wages are relatively low, they are warned in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Thus, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, inter alia, highlighted the requirement of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. Firstly, a different installation of tax warehouses, a different arrangement for compensation for employers in the event of an accident at work, a re-response, an adequate taxation of real estate with real estate taxes, a reduction of labour costs, a reduction of network costs, an amendment of the Labour Relations Act, an effective enforcement and an orderly insolvency law for better payment discipline, a comprehensive recast of the public procurement system, an effective absorption of European funds and access to sources of financing, and, for the tenth time, a more effective system of vocational education in connection with the deliberate deregulation of professions. That's why I'm asking: Which of the above requirements prepared by Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia implement and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you will receive an answer at the next meeting as requested. Mag. Alexander Kavčič will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u103	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members, nice greeting. Thank you for your word. In the Public Administration Development Strategy 2015-2020, I quote: "The business of public administration at the general and concrete level in some cases follows surviving bureaucratic patterns, causing the administration to be estranged from natural and legal persons as users of its services. In such cases, the administration as a civil service does not follow such a mission and acts as an untouchable bureaucratic system, which makes it a general feeling that the administration is itself meant to do so." End of quote. This reference shows the fact that the Ministry of Public Administration is very well aware that bureaucratic procedures in Slovenia are often unnecessary and too complex and too long-lasting. We know this discourages foreign investment in Slovenia. We also know that some Slovenian entrepreneurs decide to establish or even relocate their business abroad. Dear Minister of Public Administration, I'd like to know: What will the Ministry of Public Administration do specifically to eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy in Slovenia? Above all, I am interested in removing bureaucratic barriers in the entrepreneurial environment. What are the results of the government's STOP bureaucracy project? What results are expected in the new business SOS project, which is still relatively unknown to the public? To whom is the project intended and what other activities are you carrying out in the area of better regulation and removal of administrative barriers? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! Let me start by saying that I look at red tape in two ways. In fact, we need bureaucracy because red tape regulates things so that we can coexist so that we can manage. Of course, it is a problem when this bureaucracy becomes excessive, when too many things are regulated, and when we begin to interfere with the free operation of those economic operators who are actually meant to allow them a stable environment through bureaucracy. So we can't say that we don't need red tape, it's only important to what extent it makes sense to deal with bureaucratic things. And it is here that we believe that we have gone to Slovenia in recent years perhaps too far, that this bureaucratic regulation of our environment has become an obstacle instead of a catalyst for development in some stable environment. The key is, of course, to focus on removing administrative barriers or, as we call it, a broader, better business environment or a better regulatory environment, in two ways. One is that we are already partially implementing, and in particular we are planning a series of measures for better legislation when it is adopted. Here is, for example, a renewed system of law-making, which must involve the public concerned at an early stage, a mandatory assessment of the impact of laws on those they implement, refers to companies, officials themselves, the costs involved and so on. Just last week, we completed a two-month education for those who are preparing laws called RIA to involve the public early in the preparation of regulations. And it was very well accepted. The second part, however, is aimed at correcting errors or overriding. We are implementing projects in this area, as you mentioned in the STOP bureaucracy. This is a permanent project in which we collect those proposals for improving legislation. Business SOS is an upgrade to STOP bureaucracy. This is not a separate project, but an upgrade that we want to get right from entrepreneurs in the next six months, when the legal deadlines are not respected, when it is late, when business practices are unacceptable, when, for example, improper relations or unreasonable decisions of individual officials are, and which is the particular inadequate legislation that has disturbed an individual entrepreneur in a particular case. These are the two measures that are being upgraded. Then, of course, it is very important, and I would very much like to point out that we have, in addition to the STOP bureaucracy, a proposal to the government, a business SOS, a whole range of communications with users, and in recent months we have managed to concentrate all the proposals we collect from different sources in a so-called single document, a set of desirable legislative changes that have come from different proposals. This is a remarkable achievement for me that we have finally succeeded in one document in one place, to collect all these proposals that we are implementing. If I may show this, we also launched the application last week, and I invite you to upload it to your STOP bureaucracy mobiles, in which you can see what was proposed, which body is responsible, how much this body has already implemented proposals it has adopted. In short, as a Member, as an entrepreneur, as a citizen, you can monitor daily whether something is happening or just collecting problems. This is such an important measure. Of course, we also pay a lot of attention to the so-called SME test, which means that from the beginning of 2016 forward, for every new regulation we adopt, without the proposaler saying, he will assess how much impact, financial impact or impact it has, but will calculate how much the system itself has a rule of influence, whether financial or human resources, when it comes to implementation. In this way, we will make it much more acute, as you know, at the end of many laws it says: it has no financial implications. I'd practically say there's no financial implications for a minor legal change. They almost have it all. We just don't want to admit it. Here we will actually calculate if a regulation requires so many and so many visits to an official, it has such financial implications. This will also automatically be included in the prescription. Above all, it is important that all these different projects we carry out are gradually synchronized, that we have only one channel and only one collection of proposals, which relates to the different resources that they must then implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mag. The couch. No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. In view of the absence of the Minister, I ask you to define yourself to the way you respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I'd like a written answer. On 22 April, a press conference was held at the Ministry of Health, where the Minister presented with her project group a draft Regulation on the implementation of emergency medical assistance. At this conference, we were also informed of a plan for visits by the Ministry in the field. Here I would like to point out that the Minister at both meetings of the Committee, according to the urgent meetings of the Health Committee, has stressed or stated that she and the project group will visit all areas and the mayors and directors of public health institutions and present the rules to them. But the project group, together with the secretary-in-chief, has visited only places where the headquarters of the emergency centres are envisaged, where there are no such problems. He has only 21 May to visit Brežice and Novo mesto. However, the questions and concerns of course also many comments on the rules appear on the periphery, as urgent medical care is lifted and on-call duty is also lifted. Although I must say that, on the other hand, these visits to places where the emergency centres are, I also somehow understand that, because she has looked at the stage of construction or upgrading of these emergency centres, and probably it is right or decided to go where they will praise her, not where everyone is concerned and has thousands of comments and questions. Regrettably, wherever the Regulation was presented, they are not satisfied with this rule. There was dissatisfaction everywhere, from Murska Sobota, Ormoža, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradca, Celje, Upper Savinja Valley, Trbovlje, Jesenic, Boveca and so on. There are also many protest letters on this subject. I was on my own for some of the presentations of this regulation on the ground. I must say, there have been a lot of comments and I am afraid that these comments will lie in the drawers. I'm afraid the Minister isn't here, so I'm asking for a written answer, as I've already said. Will the Ministry insist on Article 7 of the Rules, which will divide us into first-class and second-class citizens? In what way will the Ministry inform the interested public, whose comments will be taken into account or which comments will not be taken into account and why not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, on 5 June this year, the opening of one of the major infrastructure facilities on the coast, the Markovec tunnel, which connects Koper and Isolo with the fast road. The aim of the construction of this two-pronged tunnel was essentially to decommission local roads and coastal roads, especially before heavy traffic, which takes place during the summer months when a large flow of tourist transit takes place on this part of the coast, either on the Slovenian coast or on the Croatian coast. In these periods, due to the high prices of vignettes or the lack of an appropriate alternative form, either daily, transit or other forms of tolling, a large proportion of passenger vehicles avoid payment in such a way as to redirect to local roads or other roads and thus try to bypass this toll model. Such a strategy has mainly negative effects on the local population, which is found literally in a traffic jam when such traffic is concentrated, as unnecessary and sometimes dangerous congestions arise. In addition, due to the specifics of the coastal area, there is an increase in the use of local roads, whose repairs and renovations are carried out by the municipality itself, if any. It is therefore a multi-layer injury to the inhabitants of the coastal back settlements, where this redirected transit takes place, and not least to all Slovenian taxpayers. Let us recall that Markovec’s contractual value is poor at EUR 160 million, or 157 million. It was a complex work, a difficult drilling and mine operation and a considerable remodeling of the fast road before, through and after the tunnel. And now, some weeks before opening, we are actually facing an investment that will be at least partially or unwarranted. We will have a modern tunnel, a fast road between Koper and Isola, whose main purpose was to unload the local and coastal road, which will remain inoperable or will not serve this basic purpose at the very moment when it is most needed, is to say when traffic is most concentrated. That's why I'm asking you: Have you already prepared an assessment of the annual amount of charged tolls in this area? It is said that how many vignettes are actually purchased by motor vehicle owners at the Italian border or at the Croatian border or immediately at the border to assess how much the decline would have been if there had not been such tolls. And, of course, second of all: Do you intend to show sufficient will to resolve this situation in such a way that this part of the coastal road or this part of the fast road is removed from the toll system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, honourable Member, Dr Matej Vatovec. On this issue of yours, I can say in the introduction that, in principle, I agree that during the tourist season on coastal roads, in short, not on a fast road, there is also a lot of pressure because certain drivers are trying to avoid paying the vignette and are therefore trying to reach tourist destinations on roads that are not vignette. However, we cannot solve this problem in such a way as to exempt or exempt certain sections of the high-speed roads from the wine system and to exempt them from the payment of vignettes for the use of these fast roads. However, this is why this is the whole fast road, which is already a toll line, including a new section of the fast road that will open with the Markovac tunnel, to include the circle. In short, the vignette system was introduced as such in 2008 on the basis of the Public Roads Act, which stipulated that the vignettes were compulsory on all roads operating and maintaining Dars, which operated the motorway network and the network of fast roads. On the basis of this legal provision, the vignettes also became compulsory on certain road sections, which until then did not actually pay tolls for passenger vehicles. This was, for example, the entire Ljubljana bypass, the Maribor bypass, certain sections between the main toll stations in the open toll system and also this road section between Škofija and Kopro. This means that since 2008, we have also introduced mandatory use of vignettes on this section of the fast road through Koper, which is now connected to this newly built road section of the fast road through the tunnel. However, the Public Roads Act was repealed by the application of the Tolling Act already in this reference to the National Assembly, then in April, then in March, and this new tolling law did not, in fact, introduce any specific amendments to the toll system. In short, a similar arrangement as established by the Law on Public Roads is still in force in 2008. Thus, the entire coastal road, including the tunnel Markovac, meets all the legal requirements and conditions for its toll. In view of your question about the additional revenues from the sales of vignettes on the Italian and Slovenian sides, I would say from the point of view of the legislation in force that this issue is not really relevant, because we are interrupting this toll because this is what the legislation provides. And it's not the main reason that we're talking about these revenue now, even though it's an important category. In short, ensuring the sustainability of Dars is also one of the key elements that we need to take into account in addressing these issues. In short, we know that new investment projects are still being set up before Dars, and we cannot therefore discuss that we will now, in any way, threaten the inflows that Dars is using both to provide and repay the loans that have been hired so far to make investments, we must also ensure adequate sustainability to ensure Dars’ ability to rent new loans that will finance new investments. It is also very difficult to estimate how many additional vignettes will be sold due to the addition of the Markovec tunnel and this additional section of the fast road into the toll system. In short, these questions, how many additional inflows this would cause or how few inflows would be if this section were to be completely exempted from tolling, are in fact difficult or impossible to answer with some reliability. So I'm afraid I can't give you any correct answers in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Here you go, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you. I would add this broader international vision to this issue. You are probably well aware that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed the so-called Croat Agreement with the Italian Republic in 1975. Article 5 of this Agreement on the promotion of economic cooperation between countries states: "To promote road transport, the State will connect the Trieste-Benetse-Gorice-Trbiza to the roads of Nova Gorica-Postojna-Ljubljana, Fernetti-Hrpelje-Kozina-Reka. Both sides will also check the possibility of facilitating cross-border transport in particular in tourist areas and will jointly decide on further measures." Slovenia is, of course, the legal successor of Yugoslavia and, in some ways, still committed to this agreement. Now you could say that Italy actually respects the provisions of this agreement if, for example, you go from Koper to Gorica so much as to get there for free except for that last section when you actually come to Gorica. Thus, they respect this principle of free movement of people and goods along their motorways and fast roads and in some ways also exempt the local population from paying these tolls. Furthermore, I think that even if you have already talked about the financial dimension of Dars, I think it would also be worth mentioning that Italy has contributed 221 million and 25% of the total investment in the construction of the fast road H5, which connects Novo Gorica and Razdrta. I think that even in the light of the Videm Agreements, which were adopted in 1978 and in some way continue what Imamsky started, including this reciprocity perhaps in the light of Europe, perhaps this is the true dimension of the European Union, there is actually more cooperation between countries in this way, even if it is possible to do something under these agreements, it is fair to show the will to exempt this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Peter Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Look, our legislation is clear, some of these exemptions from toll payments are not foreseen. Nor does the PIC directly require or discuss what it will toll and what it will not toll, talk about providing appropriate connections. We believe that these connections are guaranteed. And once again I would like to point out, we need to ensure sustainability from the payment of already hired loans and ensure that new loans are available for new investments. I think that your fellow Member will also have a further issue regarding the financing and construction of the third development axis. These are things that we need to look at in this light, and we really don't have any options here, given the current legislation, to exempt sections from the toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister. Dear Minister. I ask Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen: The Association of Slovenian cable drivers has been trying for years to lower the amount of water refund they pay for the use of water for snowing skis. The Decision on the decision on the level of water reimbursement for the basis of water reimbursements for the use of water, floods and water land for 2015 shows that the amount of compensation for the use of water for the snowing of skis for 2015 amounts to 0.066 euros per cubic metre of water taken, while for the use of water for irrigation of agricultural surfaces amounts to only EUR 0,0015 per cubic metre of water taken. It follows that the cost of irrigation of agricultural land is 44 times lower than the cost of freezing skis. In doing so, I should point out that snow skis only change the aggregate condition of water, which then returns to nature. In this process, water is not polluted, as is the case with others who, for example, use water to irrigate agricultural land. This is certainly not in line with the Green Tax Reform, after which polluters pay more. When can we expect an amendment to the Water Recovery Decision to follow the objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u119	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Dear Mrs Maruša Škopac, the question you have asked me is, in the period that the water management plan has been launched, not only for cable operators, but also for all those water consumers who are charged with paying for water rights for use of water or floods. This water management plan will be an expert basis for the preparation of these compensations in the future, these things will be professionally covered. It is in the sense that for all uses it is necessary to examine how much water is actually polluted and how much water must be paid for such use. I do not agree with your explanation of what is more or less polluting water resources. It is true, however, that for this price, to determine the basis of the water refunds, the Government receives for each year separately. That's how she accepted it this year. Indeed, this compensation is the same as it was last year. However, as I have already stated, according to professionally different options, this review and production of new economic bases will be carried out this year or will be established in 2016. It is true that the principle of water reimbursement is a matter of taking into account the principle of reimbursement of costs related to water burdens related to obligations arising from the Directive, where this Directive speaks, in order to take account of the principle of reimbursement of costs of water services, together with environmental costs and resource costs, taking into account economic analysis, in particular in accordance with the principle of 'paying the burden-bearer'. Thus, this review could be expected to take place during the course of this year, towards the end of the year and will be established in 2016, but there is no way that I can give a position on how to account for this new dose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the finance minister Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u121	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to raise the question below to the Minister of Finance, Mr Dusan Maramor, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the Government of Mir Cerar confirmed the classification and strategy of the management of investments in state assets last Thursday. Now, one of the key items of this privatisation or economy is, at least for me, probably the obligations of the Slovenian State Holding under two laws, following the Law on Victims of War Violence and the Law on Denationalisation. According to some information provided by the President of the Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board on one of the financial committees, the Slovenian state-owned holding company is expected to have some EUR 800 million of its obligations under two credit laws and obligations by the end of 2016. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: According to the proposed classification, do you estimate that the Slovenian State Holding will be able to meet these obligations imposed by both laws in a timely and timely manner from its liquidity flow? Will this require the indebtedness of the Slovenian state holding company or is there any other way to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u123	Respected and respected! Mr. Ambassador Mag. Marko Pogačnik, in fact, is a proposal for a strategy, as adopted last week by the Government, the first such document in the history of Slovenia and SDH will significantly improve the provision of means to settle legal obligations. Until now, SDH or its predecessor, the Court, in the sale of larger companies, had a tied hand, as it needed the consent of the National Assembly, which it had received only in the crisis year 2013, with the privatisation list of 15 companies. As regards the provision of liquidity assets from SDH’s own assets, it should be clarified that they originate from dividends and purchases, as you said. With regard to the strategy, I would point out only two solutions that would significantly contribute to the provision of SDH commitment funding, rather than without a strategy. Insurer Triglav will become important in line with the proposal for a strategy once certain conditions are met and SDH will be able to sell its 28% share. This is after these voting rights have been passed into the hands of the country and after the establishment of the Demographic Fund and part of the SPIZ has been transferred to the Demographic Fund and these 28% are released and the SDH can seek so-strategy. Further, one of the main objectives of the strategy proposal is to improve corporate governance and increase returns and thus dividends received by SDH. In addition, he would mention that 47 companies or investments of the country were identified as portfolios, that is to say, these 47 investments could be sold without classification under SDH requirements and obligations, as defined in the proposal for a strategy only in the case of the Triglav Insurance Company, and the provision of SDH liabilities would be even more difficult. In addition, the SDH Ministry of Finance has already issued an agreement to refinance its financial obligations, otherwise the payment would have been due in the following year. It is also essential that SDH's liabilities are guaranteed by the State and are secured by 16% of SDH's share in Krk. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, all SDH obligations are manageable. However, with regard to this proposed classification, I would like to say that I am very sorry that the Ministry of Finance has constructively presented the basic proposal for a strategy to each of the members of the group and has also sent a model for the classification of investments to it, but not a single opposition parliamentary group has fulfilled it. The same applies to all social partners within the Economic and Social Council. We've just forwarded that methodology and asked for your input. But regardless, of course, I would say that in our opinion the situation of SDH is easier with regard to the obligations it has, than the Court had previously had and were transferred to SDH.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please, request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u125	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in one part I agree with you when the National Assembly accepts this classification, SDH will no longer need any consent to resell the investment. When we look at this classification that was proposed, I am personally very skeptical that these 46 companies, which you have classified as portfolios, will be sufficient to pay the liabilities SDH has. Now the fact is that between these 46 companies, this is mainly about smaller investments or investments that are probably of little value and, on the other hand, they are also companies that are in some major difficulties. Finally, among these portfolio investments is Peko, which we have heard from the media today that SDH will propose its liquidation. I would also like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: Why do you take into account the book values of the end of 2013 in the classification of capital investments in this strategy? Today we are May 2015 and in the table you provide data from the end of 2013. I'm skeptical. Also with regard to these portfolio investments, that you additionally tied this classification to the Slovenian State Holding Company and that the Slovenian State Holding in the event that such classification of investments is confirmed in the National Assembly will not be able to meet the current obligations imposed on it by this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u127	If I go in line. First of all, why is the data from 2013. Due to the fact that the data for 2015 from the APES have just arrived, and some are unaudited, and for the National Assembly we will enter data for 2014. This is also the government's conclusion, so it comes to the National Assembly. I agree with you about the book value. Of course, this is some basis that SDH will be able to sell it for, is another question. However, I would also like to mention that of those who are significant investments, from 21, they will only be in the final instance, currently the Insurance Company Triglav is still proposed as strategic, but after meeting the conditions, if it becomes important, there will be 6 of these 21 such, including Krka, where the share of others cannot be greater than the share of the country, and for all other important investments there is no restriction, so that 15 other important investments, where this sale is, of course, more than 25% possible. From this point of view, there is a question on the ground and I do not know exactly what the end result will be. However, it is certain that an increase in the performance of these companies enables a certain SDH commitment to settle current liabilities and then to repay from larger dividends in the future. Our assessment is that at least for a certain time there is sufficient resources within SDH for these obligations. If not, then this state guarantee will have to be used, or insurance with 16% of Krka's share.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mag. Mushroom, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u129	Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a public debate be held on this issue, whether the SDH will be able, in view of the proposed classification of investments, to settle its obligations arising from these two laws. Dear Minister, I also see at some point you have been a little skeptical about whether such a proposed classification of investments will be sufficient for SDH to settle liquid from its assets or from the liquidity flow of its liabilities. On the one hand, you now point out that there is no possibility that any public guarantee may be paid off or that SDH will have to be additionally indebted. On the other hand, why this scepticism and the question of whether SDH will be able to settle this, in particular from the fact that neither your Ministry nor the Government in the classification or in the State Asset Management Strategy did not specify a single deadline. Also for these portfolio investments, which are around 46, and for significant investments, when these conditions will occur or when SDH will start selling these investments. And in the SDS we have already pointed out a number of shortcomings in these documents. It is also likely that one major disadvantage is that there is not a single time limit for portfolio investments or significant investments to begin to be sold. And in view of the proposal for a management strategy for important investments, I personally believe that, given the dispersion of ownership, this does not mean any added value and that, in particular, due to the condition of dispersal ownership in the six investments that you have mentioned, the Slovenian State Holding and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be at great risk of receiving a substantial lower purchase for these investments, as if this condition of dispersion of ownership would not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much, mag. It's a cakemaker. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 19. 5. In the context of the votes. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u131	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! In 2014, as soon as the Olympic fire was extinguished in Sochi in Russia, so-called aggression against Ukraine began or we witnessed the first involvement of Crimea, political conflicts and, last but not least, military aggression, conflict. I will not determine whether this was an attack by one country on another and so on, but the fact is that in Ukraine it was wild, part of it was a war and it was a state of war. As a result, many Ukrainians flee the country for persecution and seek international protection in other countries, including the Republic of Slovenia. Under our current legislation, international protection is granted to third-country nationals "who, because of their legitimate fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or certain political beliefs, cannot or will not return to their home country or there is a valid reason for such persons to suffer the death penalty or execution, torture or threat to their lives in the event of an international or internal armed conflict." In accordance with the above, Madam Minister, I ask you: How many applications for international protection, I emphasise international protection, we received applications from Ukraine in 2014 and 2015, sometime by May? I'm still wondering: What is the number of persons — residents of Ukraine — who have been granted refugee status or the status of persons with subsidiary forms of protection? What criteria have been taken into account for the recognition of such status? This is also why I can then continue to ask you a question in the second part about security itself. [[…]] In fact, a few days ago we witnessed when a girl was wanted in Ljubljana, I don't know, it was Ukraine, I don't know where these procedures are now, what was the reason and so on. This is for a short period of time, but the supplement below.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u133	Mr President, thank you for your word. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Republic of Slovenia, 16 Ukrainian citizens were asked for international protection in the previous year, in 2014, up to 30 in 2015. In April, in the Republic of Slovenia, 9 citizens of Ukraine requested international protection. Currently, there are 19 applicants in the Republic of Slovenia for international protection who are citizens of Ukraine and who are in the process of granting international protection, the decision on the application is not yet legally binding. In 2014, four applicants for international protection from Ukraine also left the Republic of Slovenia and in 2015 to 30 April 2 applicants from Ukraine, because they did not wait until the decision on their applications. In 2014, the Ministry of the Interior adopted 8 decisions in the process of granting international protection and in 2015, three decisions on the application for international protection of Ukrainian citizens, of which 6 decisions on the termination of the procedure, as a result of leaving the applicant country after its own decision. In no case has the Ministry of the Interior recognised the status of international protection, i.e. refugee status or subsidiary protection status. There is a possibility of internal protection in Ukraine, i.e. in accordance with the European legal order, Article 8 of Directive 95/2011, as well as with the national legal order, Article 68 of the Law on International Protection, gives rise to such a decision. The decision on the possibility of internal protection in a particular case shall take into account both the general circumstances prevailing in that part of the country and the specific circumstances of the applicant. However, I must point out that all decisions of the Ministry of the Interior may be subject to judicial review in the context of an administrative dispute if the applicants decide to do so. Given that the Law on International Protection provides that data on applicants for international protection are confidential in nature and that citizens of Ukraine in the Republic of Slovenia are relatively few, more detailed criteria and reasons for making a decision are not allowed to indicate, as identification of applicants could also affect their safety. The safety of all resident asylum seekers is ensured by the security service, which provides both physical and technical protection, in all meals in the kitchen in addition to the security staff, there is also a security guard and a staff member of the Ministry of the Interior. In an asylum home, applicants are accommodated in the relevant departments, categorized in the Single Women’s Department, unaccompanied minors, families, single men and disabled persons. The movement of residents in the departments is not permitted. There is also a social worker present in each department who, if he detects elements of danger or violence, can immediately take appropriate action and protect the security guard. In addition, representatives of NGOs are present in the asylum home daily. In the event of an application for international protection for which an asylum home is not a suitable institution, it may also be established in another appropriate institution. However, as regards the specific case that you are referring to, that is, the specific girl, the teenage girl, in which the elements of the threat have actually been identified. A specific case has been addressed by the Section for Sexual Violence and Gender-based Violence, established under the Agreement, Standard Operational Procedures for the Prevention and Action of Sexual Violence and Gender-based Violence, consisting of representatives of NGOs, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who are also co-signers of the said Agreement. This case, which you mentioned, has also addressed and identified the elements of the threat and has adopted conclusions on the basis of which the Centre for Social Work and the Police has so informed. After interviews by representatives of the Centre for Social Work and Police, the girl first settled in a crisis centre and then in one of the institutions responsible for minors, where she is also now. Her family was also provided with appropriate psychosocial assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Request for a response, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u135	Dear Madam Secretary. Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. You gave me specific numbers. As a supplement, however, I am interested in the answer to one more question. I mean, I separate what international protection is and what asylum is. Even if we can talk about the case of Ukraine, even political asylum, because it is an internal issue of the country itself. I am also interested in: How long, if you may have information, is the procedure from the very request that these persons have submitted for political asylum or for international protection until the granting of asylum itself? We have also noticed some information about the poor organisation in the Directorate itself, including the lack of staff, that it is not all going as it should be, that the staffing distortion is very high, even if we are now going to have to accept 205 refugees within the European Union, that this will be a very big contribution to your Directorate of Migration, the Directorate of Migration, that this is also a long period of time from the request to asylum approval very problematic, which is also ultimately cost the country. Further on safety. The problem is trade in white goods. In the case of Ukraine, it is also one other thing, perhaps political accounts, because Ukraine is relatively close and we know that there is actually a civil war there. For this reason, I would somehow appeal to your ministry that political asylum seekers from Ukraine should be very sympathetic, because it is two, that is, trade in white goods and, finally, political accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The mag will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u137	Unfortunately, as far as the duration of the specific procedures is concerned, I cannot answer you because I do not have this information at the moment. However, as regards the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs, the same applies to all internal organisational units at the Ministry of the Interior if the need to achieve a staff deficit or a reduced capacity of the unit appears, we always approach and resolve these deficits from the outside. Perhaps here only this concept of internal protection, which I mentioned in the introduction, would explain here, that it might be a little bit more understandable why such a reason for a decision in a particular case actually means. The concept of internal protection can therefore be applied in accordance with the European and national legal order where the applicant does not need international protection because there is no reason in the part of his country of origin to fear persecution or justified risk of serious harm or to have access to protection under persecution or serious harm in that part. However, the condition for the application of the concept of internal protection is that the applicant can travel safely and legally to this part of the country and can somehow reasonably be expected to reside in it. Once again, I stress that all decisions taken by the Ministry of the Interior may also be subject to an administrative dispute in court if applicants decide to do so. However, I will take into account all your comments today and, if necessary, I can also give you a written reply if you think that this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Procedural? Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The financial perspective 2007-2013 is being concluded at the end of this year. By the end of this year, it is the final date by which all infrastructure projects can be completed or all remaining resources can be used. If I limit myself to the largest infrastructure projects in our country that come from the railway area, these are the GSM-R project, worth slightly more than 110 million, then the electricity and reconstruction of the Prague-Hodoš railway network is slightly less than 500 million, and then the reconstruction of the Divača-Koper railway, the 200 million euro circus. These are very big projects. All these projects are still in progress, and we know that by the end of the years it is a good half-year to complete and get them into functional use and, of course, use this remaining part of European funds. And I'm interested, Mr. Secretary, in: Will these projects actually be needed in this year in view of the still great realization, somewhat more than 150 million if they are actually completed? Is there any project where implementation itself is at risk, as well as the use of European funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable Member, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, holds that there are several important projects in the implementation of the financial perspective 2007-2013. The main ones, you have mentioned, are the upgrading and reconstruction of the Prague-Hodoš railway, including the modernisation of the level crossings in the same section. Then the modernisation of the existing course of Divaca-Koper. The implementation of the GSM-R system and the upgrading of sections of the Slovenska Bistrica–Pragersko and Long Mountain–Poljčane line is then carried out. With regard to the project to modernise the existing line of Divača-Koper, I can say that in the final phase, much of the project was already completed at the end of last year. The remaining work on reconstruction of the Divača station will be completed in the first half of June. To date, more than 90 % of the funds from around 68 million planned or allocated European funds have been absorbed in the project. On the biggest cohesion project, this is the upgrade of reconstruction and electrification and modernisation of European crossings on the Prague-Hodoš route, the line itself was completed last year. In the final phase, there are works relating to the reconstruction and construction of electro-spiral stations and still working on the electrification of the track itself. All the more difficult work on upgrading level crossings, which mainly relate to the construction of 19 underpasses and overpasses, has also been completed. The project will draw on a good €219 million of European funding. By the end of April, approximately 62% had been absorbed. The remaining amount, however, relates to ongoing works and retained funds to be exhausted by the end of this year. With regard to the GSM-R system project on the whole rail network, I can say that it is going well. Nearly 200 base stations of the envisaged 246 have already been installed and have been completed on 75 % of optical cableways. Up to this point, approximately 50% of European funds were absorbed from the planned 93 and a half million. The remaining amount will be drawn by the end of the year and relates to the remaining works and retained funds. Two smaller projects are under way, namely the upgrading of sections Prague-Bistrica and Long Mountain-Poljčana, which will provide €33 million of European funding. The first section is in final phase and will be completed in July this year and the second section will be implemented by the end of this year. On the basis of the lower realisation of resources in the field of railway infrastructure, which is mainly due to the financial correction received by the European Commission regarding the use of the discriminatory condition of the contracting authority to determine the ability of engineers and further individual contracts for a substantial lower value than the estimated value, the Ministry of Infrastructure proposed in 2014 to co-finance an additional project, namely the modernisation of the existing Divača-Koper railway line, which is stage D, where we provide optimal transport, technological functionality of the Koper freight station of 17 million euros. And this project will also be completed by the end of this year. In short, we estimate that on these projects I have mentioned, we will draw the total amount of cohesion funds from the 2007-2013 financial perspective, which will amount to €415 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u143	Dear Minister, I am very pleased with your reply because today you have indicated that the project, which would endanger 100% of European funds, is not actually in the largest infrastructure area in your area. It is said that all projects will be completed within a period of time and, of course, all funds will also be exhausted. In fact, I would say that we have stepped firmly into the first third of the new financial perspective 2014-2020. It's been two years. There are no new calls, actually, practically not yet. And I have a question: What's the infrastructure plan for the new calls? As a result, does the calls also give the economy a job, as this is an important part for the development and recovery of our country? On the other hand, I am interested in getting as much funding as possible in this other financial perspective, so I ask: How is this planning dynamic for the next calls and investments?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much. For the next financial perspective, 2014-2020, I can say that we are planning investments of around € 2.1 billion in rail infrastructure. Of this, we expect to draw around €700 million in European funds, which is projected to be two sources, namely, the funds of the Cohesion Fund of € 153 million and the funds of the so-called Connecting Europe Facility, the so-called IPE Cohesion, where we have the funds allocated on the so-called national envelope of € 160 million, while the rest we plan to draw on the so-called open calls where we compete with the projects. As you are probably already aware, we have already filed this first call this year, where we have reported two investments in railway infrastructure within the national envelope, namely the upgrade of the Polish-Slovenian Bistrica railway connection and the so-called construction of the extraction track from the Koper freight station, which, in fact, is already the beginning of the construction of the second track. In addition, we have registered the remaining part of the second track project on the so-called open call, where we are competing with this project up to 30% of the eligible funds. We estimate that up to €400 million of this funding can be obtained for this project. The decision of the European Commission itself is expected in July 2015 and the implementation works could then be started at the draw track itself as well as at the section of the Polish-Slovenian Bistrica link upgrade. We are already in the final stage with the preparation of an invitation to tender for the so-called extraction track, so that we plan to announce the selection of the contractor of the works very shortly and certainly in the month of June. In addition, we are preparing a project documentation to co-finance the project on the upgrade of the Zidani Bridge-Celje railway link, which will take place in 2016 and 2017. Here we also plan to upgrade the railway node of Prague and upgrade the railway line Maribor-Šentilj and build the second track. In short, these are also projects that we are planning under this next financial perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedar? Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. In view of the absence of the Minister, I would also like to ask you to make your statement on how to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you for your words, President, Honourable Minister, Minister, Honourable Colleagues and colleagues! I would like the Minister's oral reply to my question at the next meeting. The problem of the use of illicit drugs in the Republic of Slovenia is still very large. Access to illicit drugs is easy, since drug dealers are looking for their customers themselves in primary school, where children first meet with marijuana and then lead them to the use of so-called cane drugs. All illicit drugs are very expensive and are hard to access because of high prices, so in recent years new forms of so - called drug purchases have emerged — one that the government has been paying you. There is an increasing incidence of abuse of methadone programs or drug substitution treatment programmes. In Zasavje, and probably elsewhere in Slovenia, several addicts are involved in these substitution treatment programmes, which are carried out with methadone and other means only to obtain, if I say so domestically, free drugs or effects that they have on an individual. These same people like to brag about what they do, so such abuse is no longer a secret. Of course, we must stress that there will be no mistake that this does not apply to all those involved in these programmes. Most of them are included in these substitution treatment programmes with a sincere purpose of rehabilitation. In 2013, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance allocated EUR 2.5 million to substitution medicines and 2 000 42 people were included in substitution treatment programmes. I ask the Minister of Health: Are the Ministry aware of the problem of the abuse of substitution treatment programmes and how they will act to prevent them? I also want to know: What are the specific effects of the substitution treatment programme? I thank the Minister very much for her answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Hršak, you will receive your answer at the next meeting. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Three months ago, we passed an intervention measure law to balance the public finances of the municipalities. We all expected that now the municipalities would be genuinely burdened by such individual administrative burdens, and above all that they would be able to cope more financially with this economic crisis. And it was already the first financial, I will say, draft 15 million euros for all the municipalities, and after we went through the first, second and third treatments in detail through all the legal procedures, you, the minister, at least in part found that this 15 million — if or when everything will be processed. Right now, I'm wondering: What are the first effects of this law both at financial and administrative level? And in phase two, of course, I'm interested in: Are there any further measures envisaged in 2015 or even in 2016 to make municipalities more stable or more stable? In this point, I am also interested in the preparation of strategies for the development of local self-government: Where does this story, through this intervention law, also enter into this strategy, which, I would say, is almost written and adopted? So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Ambassador Lisec, thank you for asking. As you yourself have found, the Public Finance Balance Act was passed in February this year, three months ago. The financial assessment that we submitted at the time was EUR 15 million and after three months of operation we do not actually have any concrete empirical evidence and no reason to withdraw from this assessment, so we are still in this position, and I point out that these are measures that appear during the extended period of operation of the municipalities. However, we need to know that we have infringed 11 different rules by means of these regulations or by means of this intervention regulation, with which we have basically three different types of effects that are actually expected or are happening by these rules. Part of this is the removal of administrative obstacles to the decisive, partly because we do not require certain conditions previously required, and part of the expected effect is that the municipalities are allowed new resources for revenue in the municipal budget. These are the main three types of measures that are reflected in the daily life of the congregations through these 11 marriages. However, it is important to stress this – and thus, through discussions with representatives of local communities, we are also constantly meeting – all these measures have a very different impact on the various municipalities. Very different because they have a different spending structure. However, it is also different in view of the willingness of individual municipalities to apply certain measures, especially in the area of the possibility of additional revenue. However, a number of measures are also such that the transitional provisions or only take effect gradually, so that after three months of adoption of the law it is difficult to give one comprehensive assessment of whether this initial assessment of the financial effects was appropriate or not. Perhaps, however, I would like to point out at this point when you ask for further questions, in particular, that the main part, the third part of the agreement with the municipalities, relates to more systematic changes to the rules, for which we have also established a number of concrete interventions in the system legislation, which will have a longer term impact on the Government. Here we have already done two rounds – the Ministry of Public Administration as coordinator – with representatives of municipalities and individual departments of talks with individual ministries for specific interventions into laws, a few measures which were not originally envisaged, but also in the final stage of preparation or enforcement. Here I would point out mainly public procurement legislation, which begins its path, a new law on administrative procedure, which will also have a concrete financial impact for the municipalities. However, it is not negligible that a large part of those measures to address administrative obstacles that have already been discussed today relate to simplifying the process, simplifying the legislative environment, including those that will also improve the business environment for municipalities or simplify procedures, or actually reduce costs. If, for example, only a few such concrete measures that were already planned or in implementation were mentioned, this is a gradual achievement of the standards for kindergartens, which means that the municipalities will not have such a huge cost so quickly. Important financial measures concern the obligations of financial advisors for municipalities, in particular the procedure itself, or the rule of procedure, on responsibility for municipalities, in which some fundamental changes are still to be expected. The Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing a change of financial guarantees for landfills, which are also heavily burdened by local communities. The whole range of measures concerns different rules and prescribes frequencies of similar checks, similar obligations or, for example, technical rules for which we find that certain are very often mentioned and the frequency of these measures is also decreasing. The strategy for the development of local self-government is far from being written, and we have already carried out a wide first round of consultations with representatives of local communities and also regionally with individual local communities, identifying what the views are, and we will also use these views at the present moment, as we are really drafting this strategy, which will go back to public discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, if you please, request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you, Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. Do you think that what you wrote in the draft law — that is, that the congregations will save EUR 15 million in 2015 — is true or not true? How does the ministry, or through organisations — SOS, ZOS, ZMOS — or through the municipalities themselves, intend to force congregations to implement certain measures that we have written down in the law? Because in this Act of Interventions we have written many times, "It is expected that..." But, as you know, if something did not force it, and if the municipalities themselves decide or make such small positive effects on their budget, that is not even worth it, some mayors have said that why would they change, I don't know, some decree or kindergartens, but here there are quite good financial positive changes, and in particular what other decisions, if they say that they calculated that the change of the decree itself would bring more costs than would be the positive effects of the adoption of this decision on the municipal budget. [[…]] First of all, I want to know: Why and how is it with these 15 million? We all know what we wrote in the law – the average in the first half of 525 euros, and if all O.K. comes with additional measures, the average will go down to 500 euros from 1 July. I share the concern of all those mayors who are not only concerned about survival in 2015, but, above all, in preparing for 2016, they fear how to survive with this average when not yet exploiting the European perspective by 2020 and with a poor state of co-financing of state and local investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. We need to know that we are talking about the total revenue of municipalities 1.1 billion per year and 1.1 billion euros with a range of concrete measures, we are fully justified in expecting a 15 million-dollar savings. I think this savings is more than real. The Mayor's Ministry cannot force, because the local administration is acting autonomously, we have given the opportunity to implement these measures, and we expect these options to be exploited. At the same time, it should also be known that transfers of local self-government are practically the only large group of transfers in that country, or spending in that country, which has actually increased in times of greatest crisis. For example, the state budget decreased by 9% and the sum of municipalities increased by 8%. We therefore believe that these expectations are realistic, the possibilities given, and above all it is important that we have established very close cooperation with representatives of local communities. Right next week, we have a broader meeting with representatives of all these associations, at which we will again address in concrete terms what measures are being implemented, which give effects where interventions are needed, alternative measures, and I think that one important result of these discussions is that we work together to find out where the options are, and together we check whether the agreements are being implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. On Thursday, 7 May, the Minister-designate began a technical review of Block 6. The Commission informed the applicant of the request for a technical review that the review would be completed within one month. The Commission will meet in full on 25 May next. According to our information, the contracting authority and the suppliers agreed that the operation of the new block would continue and that the status of the official test operation would be based on the application for a technical inspection of the facility and not on the basis of the conclusions of the commission appointed by the competent ministry for that purpose. The first task of the technical review commission is to determine whether the facility has been built in accordance with a project to obtain a building permit and the second definition of the monitoring by which the contracting authority and operators will demonstrate during the test operation that the facility achieves environmental standards and, of course, safety for workers, people and the environment with the project. According to our information despite the renovation of the nuclear power plant, block 6 is operating in a reduction in the volume due to the lack of coal. There are problems with Velenje's remote heating, which is related to the operation of block 5. Furthermore, according to media information, it is not possible to launch block 6 without one of the remaining blocks supplying it with the necessary amount of steam. That's why I'm asking: Is it in accordance with the energy permit issued for block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant that it needs an external operating device for its own propulsion? Did the formal testing of block 6 of the Šostanj thermal power plant actually begin? Does Alstom’s contract really provide for a penalty of 50,000 euros for each day of delay with the start of a probationary operation? Remote heating and cooling of Velenje is related to the operation of block 5. How is the provision of this utility provided after block 5 has entered the cold reserve, which was announced when the block 6 is a substitute block for allegedly used blocks 4 and 5? How much coal a day does Velenje mine provide these days? Will this quantity allow the operation of block 6 with the full capacity of the estimated 3 000 500 hours per year or the provision of the planned annual quantities of electricity and heat from the thermal power plant Šostanyj? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you, President, for your word. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Commissioner, I will focus on these issues that you have brought down in the end. The answer to the question concerning the energy permit issued for the 6th block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica is as follows. Indeed, the energy permit issued in 2005 and the 2006 Decision states in point 7 that an energy facility will be able to launch without external tension and an auxiliary source. Here it is possible to discuss what an energy facility is. However, the fact is that Block 6 in the framework of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant can be launched without the tension from the auxiliary source, but within the framework of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant, this means that it needs to operate at least one of the remaining blocks; it is said that without the remaining blocks in operation, Block 6 cannot be launched. Then, on the question of whether the formal test operation of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant has actually begun, the answer is as follows. Currently, the official test operation in accordance with the SGI, the Construction Act, in Block TES 6 has not yet started because the conditions are not met. On the question of contractual penalties in the Alstom contract, regarding delays in the start of the test operation: the contract for the supply and installation of the main power plant, signed between the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj and Alstom, allows for the possibility of compensation in the event of a delay in the commencement of the contract test operation in the event that the fault for a possible delay is not on the part of the operator, but the amount of the daily compensation in the contract is not exceptionally stated. As regards district heating and cooling for Velenje, however, it is necessary to state that two periods of thermal power supply should be separated between the existence of a thermal power plant in Šostanj; the first period is marked by the fact that five blocks were in operation at the Šostanj thermal power plant, all of which were able to supply two thermal power stations to cover the needs of this thermal energy. In the second period, we will have fewer blocks and significantly fewer sources of heat supply. Another important difference is the price of electricity on the market. The market prices sometimes allowed that there were always at least two block productions in operation, thus ensuring 100 % of the security of heat supply. But in a certain period, we and we'll only have to operate forcefully with one of the blocks, that's block 4 or block 5, later with block 6. However, in the absence of this, it would of course be possible to suspend also the supply of heat. After 1 January 2016, Block 6 will be in regular operation in TES and sometimes Block 5. Two heat stations will be available as a new heat station with a power of more than 120 megawatts has been built under Block 6 which is sufficient to cover the conical power in winter time. However, a link to one of the existing boilers is planned for a transitional period of heat station 1, allowing for so-called redundancies in the event of losses of other sources. During this period, we must not forget the low market prices of electricity, which at least during weekends and holidays do not allow economical co-operation of several blocks of the Šostany Termoelectrica. Currently, on the basis of the stated over-weeks and holidays, TES operates only one block, which compared to the previous period means some kind of potentially less reliability of thermal energy supplies, especially given that Block 6 is still in the start-up test phase and as such has not yet reached the normal reliability of operation. With regard to coal quantities, I can say that in these days Coal Velenje provides 13 to 18 thousand tonnes of coal per day and that, according to the Coal of Velenje, this year's supply of coal will be sufficient for the planned production of electricity and heat from the thermal power plant of Šostanj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u161	Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply, although I am not quite sure that I have understood all this. First, on the first question of additional power to start. As you said precisely, in November 2005 and then the energy permit and then a little bit of repair, but nothing fixed about it, point 7 says that an energy facility will be able to launch without external tension and an auxiliary source. Otherwise, in your response, I've noticed that the external source means outside the thermal power plant of Šostanj. Does that mean outside of the Chestnut Power Plant, block 6? This was not clear to me because it seemed to me that this was meant, which I did not think — that the whole TES, from 1 to 6, meant a unit and the other outside. That's the basic thing. Second. I don't quite know what's going to happen now: Will TER 5 still work or not work? Because once it was said that we couldn't do without him, another time that we could. Since the beginning of the construction of Block 6 it has been said that 6 is a substitute for Block 4 and Block 5. Now I want you to answer these two questions in concrete terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u162	Dr. Peter Gasperšič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Given what is written in the permit, it is now a matter of interpretation of what an energy object is. If we say that Thermal Power Plant is like an entire energy facility, there is no problem with that. If the energy facility was only block 6, then this means that the matter is not as designed as it should be. With regard to this simultaneous operation of Blocks 5 and Block 6 the case is now, as explained, that the operation of Block 5 will occasionally be allowed, but, of course, the whole matter depends on the economy and profitability and the need to provide electricity. Therefore, the simultaneous operation of block 6 and block 5 is also allowed, but this is not intended to be all the time, nor is it to be only block 6. In short, the simultaneous operation of block 5 is allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek. Request for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u165	Given that it has now been said, the 7th point of the energy permit that an energy facility will be able to start without external tension and an auxiliary source, you said that if we think TES as a whole from 1 to 6 – because some no longer stand – then this requirement, technical condition number 7 will be guaranteed. However, if we think we are talking about the TES 6 facility, this condition will not be satisfied. I think there is no doubt that only the TES 6 object is spoken of here, because if we read, "The energy permit of the investor of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, d. o. o. "and so on, "... is issued an energy permit for an energy facility block 6 at the thermal power plant Shoštanj under the following conditions..." That's exactly what it says. It's block six. It's not thermal power plants. This means that this condition is not satisfied in the energy permit. And under seven technical conditions, "The holder of the energy permit shall be obliged to report to the Energy Minister without delay any change which means a derogation from the essential provisions of the energy permit. Until the decision of the Minister, the holder may only carry out activities which are in accordance with the conditions laid down in the energy permit issued......" If I were to pull everything together here very precisely, this would mean to me that TES 6 — whether or not it has a permit — should not work because it violates the 2005 and 2006 energy permit and, as far as I know, they have not requested or communicated to the Ministry. I would therefore ask that, in accordance with the procedure, we decide on this at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Hanžek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote, i.e. on 19 May. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. In view of the absence of the Minister, I would ask that you also define yourself to the way in which the answer is made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. There has been a lot of talk recently about the rule of emergency medical care. This regulation has come across a great deal of opposition both to those who are carrying out emergency medical care, namely professional, health workers, a lot of opposition between citizens and also between local communities. The problem is also that this network, which is being set up, is not in line with the existing network of emergency centres, and this also has major consequences. Practically the whole of Slovenia, with the exception of urban centres – where nothing changes – access to emergency medical care is getting worse. In some cases, it even deteriorates significantly. Satellite emergency centres are set up in many ways to show that the person who did this does not know the map of Slovenia or traffic flows. In short, people living in rural areas get the feeling that this change in the emergency network, as well as resulting on-calls, works solely because of the interest of two large clinical centres in Slovenia and not because it would be in the interest of citizens or citizens. In view of the fact that this part of the emergency network is probably part of a basket of rights paid through the contribution rate, several questions are raised here. For the first time, the question of the professional competence of those who will carry out this emergency medical care in the field is raised. Following the current proposal, this is significantly deteriorating, dropping to a lower professional level than it is. Secondly, time availability is greatly increased in many ways. Now I'm asking two questions. First: Who will be responsible for the consequences in those cases that will arise because of the fact that the expertise and timeliness will deteriorate, accessibility will deteriorate? So who is the one who will take over — if we know that one of the doctors was recently convicted because she did not go to the E.R., as she should have been during her outpatient activities. Now that changes significantly. Secondly, I ask: Will the Ministry or Government reduce the contribution rate for those who are significantly improving access to this basket of emergency medical care rights? I would like the Minister to answer orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. In view of the absence of the Minister, I also ask you to define yourself to the way you reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister, dear colleague and colleague! Yes, I expect Health Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc to answer my question orally at the next meeting. The proposal for a new emergency medical regulation should also allow, inter alia, the operation of already built and planned emergency centres, which I firmly believe are a major acquisition and complement to the existing health network. For the Slovenian public, let me say that the Rules will be adopted by the Minister, not by the Government and not by the National Assembly. The goal is certainly better and equal, I stress the equal treatment of a life-threatening patient regardless of where part of Slovenia is at risk of human life. The technical comments on the draft emergency medical regulation or the emergency health care network are large and justified. There is also a tendency for further centralisation of Slovenia, which we who come from the periphery will simply not leave behind. Among other things, I should say that the inadequately planned network of satellite emergency centres is focusing mainly on the statistical region of Pomurje. According to the current system, 24-hour emergency medical care is provided to the citizens of Pomurje in health homes in Murska Sobota, Gornji Radgona, Lendava and Ljutomer. The Regulation puts in place a built-in emergency centre in Murski Sobota, with the exception of this centre no satellite emergency centre is planned in Pomurje, where patients are otherwise provided with an uninterrupted doctor's presence 24 hours a day. It is particularly incomprehensible that the satellite emergency centres network does not plan to establish a satellite emergency centre in Lendava, the spatial conditions and equipment conditions of the Lendava Health House. In particular, we would like to highlight the fact that the municipality of Lendava and also the municipality of Dobrovnica are a national mixed area, where almost half of the Hungarian speaking population lives and will be an additional obstacle to rapid action and, consequently, an additional extension of the time available. Also, the statistics with which the Minister operates are not accurate, it is necessary to look at the real statistics with which he operates and has a specific Health House Lendava. That is why I ask the distinguished minister: Will the satellite emergency centre in Lendava be included in the network of satellite emergency centres for the last time – according to the arguments presented? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Radič will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Madam Minister is absent and I ask you, too, if you define yourself to the way you reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, chairman, nice greeting to everyone in the hall! Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. At the end of April, a proposal for a Regulation on emergency medical care was made public, including the entire network of emergency centres, satellite centres and the distribution of ambulances. The proposal for a regulation was adopted differently in public. In some cases, the new regime has been adopted as a suitable system that seeks to improve work and will contribute significantly to the restructuring of healthcare work, once again there are negative reactions and fear that people will no longer receive the same level of health care as before. We know that, in May, the Ministry of Health expert group responsible for preparing a new emergency medical care regime is a new concept in the field of emergency medical care organisation. These meetings are intended to coordinate with the professional public and other actors at local level. That's why I'm asking you: What are the responses in the field or the results of these coordinations with representatives of local communities? As an MP coming from this environment, I want to know: How are discussions with the local community in Ormož, which collected signatures against the abolition of duty and emergency medical care in Ormož? According to responses from the local environment, the representatives of the local community were reassured after Ptuj's presentation. Please explain to us: Where did the proposal for a regulation come into the wrong understanding? I request an oral response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go. Mr. Radich, can you turn off the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u173	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! Let me ask you a question about cadastral income on farms. We must be aware in Slovenia that those, not the largest farms, face many problems on farms. That is why I am asking you, Madam Minister, about the cadastral income, in particular the censorship that exceeds the farms of over 7 thousand 500 euros. The new legislation imposes new taxation on these farms mainly because subsidies are taxed. Of course, most farms are above and face difficulties because they have to enter mandatory accounting. Therefore, the Honourable Minister: What are the chances of this censorship rising to perhaps ten, twelve thousand euros and keeping these smaller farms out of this censorship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr President, for the current issue. Allow me to answer you this way, although income legislation is not within the competence of preparing the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, but we do have the right to have an opinion, which we have already forwarded to the competent ministry. There were also speeches on this subject when Slovenian agricultural organisations met with the Prime Minister and some ministers of our government. I am also aware of the law that will now be introduced, which is being prepared by the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. Our proposal, which we are talking about with the finance ministry, I must say that I have a feeling that we are close to harmonisation, is as follows. First of all, it's borderline. Since then the farm must be moved from flat-rate taxation, which we call cadastral income, to book-based taxation, in our view it does not need to be regulated by law. The farm, which does not keep its books, is taxed, but is taxed through a flat-rate called cadastral income, and our proposal is that the farm chooses voluntarily when the time has come for them to go to books. From the point of view, as far as revenue is concerned in the budget of the State of Slovenia, we do not see any difference. I believe that we will achieve harmonisation here, because it does not bring anything new to the state budget – this is the Income Act, which I am talking about. As for the cadastral income, however, at this point I think that the country picks up some 36 million euros a year through the flat-rate. There is a group composed of representatives of the country, namely governments and experts proposed by non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture. This group has sucked in the past eight times and has proposed that the legislation we now have be supplemented. The government has decided to extend the mandate to this group at the beginning of this year, in which case the group should also propose professionally one of the flat-rate taxation models, i.e. the cadastral income, for Slovenia to take over. The government is now awaiting their final report, and an appropriate law will be drawn up on this basis. The following still applies: the amount of tax collected by the State will not change, while different forms of tax may be available. From the country's point of view, however, we want a system that will be as simple as possible for farms and can be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Podkoršek, please make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, and also thank you for your efforts. I hope that you will succeed what I have heard – of course as Minister and part of the Government as well as Vice-President of the Government. Just as the state faces financial difficulties, so does these smaller farms, and one estimate is that those who have to go into accounting to make it worth about 100 euros a month or a good thousand euros a year. Above all, there is one additional cost; before entering this accounting, the farm has to be assessed and this cost is between 300 and 500 euros after this smaller farm. Once again, thank you for your concern and I hope that you will succeed in the welfare of these farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u178	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you once again very much for your words, Mr President. Look, it's important to know that bookkeeping makes sense in countries where they're running essentially some kind of countercyclical agricultural action. For example, an example of this is the United States of America, for example, Canada, where the country reaches into agricultural policy at a time when, because of some higher power – whether it is natural disasters or whether it is, say, some serious changes in the market - farmers are being shown to reduce income and to lose. At that time, however, the country in these countries only helps if the farms also manage accounting. At the moment, neither in the European Union nor in Slovenia do we have such a system, so that, from the point of view of the implementation of agricultural policy, in essence, bookkeeping, so accounting is not necessary, since the country thus collects its tax through the flat-rate. However, some individual farms wish to keep books for several reasons. Some are business, some are purely procedural reasons, and they run these farms. As far as I know, the prices of services offered by accounting services vary. Like, I come alone from Pomurje. There is an average of EUR 35 per month right now. However, I know that there are higher numbers in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u180	Mr Franz Breznik will now ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, who is unfortunately absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u181	Mr. President, thank you. My question is a question that I have raised several times with regard to the optimal model for collecting excise duties in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that the question raised to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Economy is, above all, an important opinion or a reply from the Minister of Finance. As a result, in my opinion and in my opinion, many experts working both at the scientific level in the field of taxes and in many diplomas – I have two diplomas ahead of me in terms of optimal collection of excise duties in Slovenia – but I can say that we are picking them up optimally and that we are also creating some economic policy in this country, because certain industries in this country with such a high-quality geostrategic position, I could say, we could pick up more, we could live better, we could have a higher percentage of sales and so on. At the outset of this issue, excise duties are one of the oldest tax forms and constitute a special tax, which generally taxes so-called monopolistic products which cannot be replaced by similar products. The foundations for excise policy in the European Union date back to 1992. Excise products mainly include alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, including energy, electricity. Revenue from excise duty collected represents an important proportion of the budget of each Member State of the European Union. The Directives of the European Union only provide us with minimum excise duty rates at which Member States are required to tax excise products and the upper limits do not provide for European Union legislation, which means that there are significant differences between the Member States of the European Union. In the case of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, Finland, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Denmark are included on the list of countries with high excise duties on wine, including excise duties on hectolitres of beer, Finland in the first place, followed by Great Britain, Sweden, Ireland and, unfortunately, Slovenia in the fourth place. Let me say that, especially during the period of the government of Alenka Bratušek and the current government, it is mainly in areas bordering the Republic of Austria, from where I come from, i.e. from the area of the Slovenian Mountains, a large drop in consumption mainly by foreign tourists who came to us, so called cigarette tourism, gas tourism and so on, and that this optimal static excise model with regard to the energy we have in Slovenia, so we have a single price for fuel across Slovenia, which is mainly to reduce the sale of energy in areas bordering to neighbouring Austria. In my opinion, this model is extremely outdated and, according to the geostrategic position, is inappropriate and should somehow be simplified, improved. My question to the Minister is: Is the government planning a different, better excise model, especially in the field of energy? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u182	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u183	Dear Mr Fran Breznik, there is only a few introductions to excise policy. The retail prices of excise goods shall be established on the basis of a basic duty-free price, which shall be added to all the duties laid down, including excise duty. Taking into account this geostrategic position and the impact on national revenues, demand for the most sold is also being monitored in the formulation of excise policies – I am talking mainly about fuel engines, namely diesel fuel and gasoline. Drive fuel prices in Slovenia are established in accordance with the Regulation for the pricing of petroleum derivatives under the jurisdiction of MGRT and move according to global market prices and dollar exchange rates. In accordance with the Regulation, a 14-day model price shall be established by adding, on average, a trade margin and a contribution to the payment of a specific remuneration for the execution of the economic public service. The following taxes and taxes are added: contribution to the efficient use of energy, contribution to support the production of electricity in cogeneration with high efficiency and renewable energy sources, environmental levy on carbon dioxide emissions, excise duty and value added tax. The excise duty is thus only one of the elements affecting the level of the retail price. When designing a fuel excise policy in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes into account both the economic policy objectives, the commitment to achieve environmental objectives and the economic situation, taking into account the limitations laid down in the legislation adopted at EU level. A budgetary aspect is also taken into account in the formulation of excise policies, as revenue from excise duty on energy products is an important and stable budgetary resource. The amount of excise duty shall be the result of a reflection appropriate to the balance between those factors. The government with excise policy wants to maximise the budgetary revenues it can achieve even if prices on certain border petrol services are slightly higher than in the neighbouring country, as most fuel fuels are sold in the interior of Slovenia. We would like to point out that retail prices in neighbouring countries are free and can therefore vary significantly between individual petrol services up to 20%, unlike prices in Slovenia, as you have already mentioned, which are the same on most petrol services. As a rule, retail prices on motorway gas services in neighbouring countries are higher and on smaller petrol services in the city are lower than in Slovenia. Both domestic and foreign motorists are entitled to reimbursement of excise duty, allowing them to have their final fuel price lower than in neighbouring countries, with the exception of Hungary. We point out, however, that excise duty is only one of the elements that generate the retail price of energy. Retail energy prices in Slovenia are also affected by changes in other duties that are subject to policies of other sources. The amount of excise duty on the most reseller fuel increased by around 33 % in 2014 compared to 2007. From 2007 the amount of excise duty charged increased until 2012 when it was the highest. In 2013 and 2014, it decreased compared to 2012, but maintained a high level of age when it was high. The amount of the excise duty on propellant fuels calculated is entirely higher in 2014 than in 2013 compared to that of both fuels in 2014 compared to 2013 and higher in diesel fuel. And the amount of excise duty collected in diesel fuel is the second highest in 2014 and for 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u184	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Most of the answer to the question, Minister, was somehow teaching me how to collect excise duties, that's technically. I don't need that answer, I know him. But I'm looking for an optimal model as an economist. Slovenia, with an important geostrategic position, can say that Luxembourg has one of the smallest excise duties, a large part of GDP derives from excise duties. I would say that in relatively cheap matters he somehow builds his own serious budget source. So, the minister himself admitted that we collected less excise taxes in 2013 and 2014 than in 2012. That's what I've been warning you about. I warned against a specific model, and I said that we have reached a breakthrough point where we are following the right path on one side, including the country's health policy and, on the other hand, the highest percentage of excise duty collected at a price in the neighbourhood. I can say the best recent data; they note that the black market in tobacco products has been extremely raised at the expense of the optimal model, so that during this time Croatia has entered the European Union, which has cheaper excise duties on cigarettes. In order to raise the black market in the field, I can also say, fuel, energy, where most of the time they still cheat with fuel and diesel. The worst part is that the black market has risen enormously on the basis of alcoholic products, where, as a substitute for beer, which is a relatively healthy alcoholic product, if we say so, consumers with the lowest purchasing power, these are Slovenians, buying counterfeit alcoholic products with a higher percentage of alcohol and causing additional harm to their health. So, Minister, I hope you are aware that we do not have the optimum model, that we are asleep and that the Austrians, Croatia and Hungary are exploiting this static model of excise duty and that in this area we can pick up significantly more excise duties. Just the data, I think we picked up about €70 million in 2013 due to statistics, because the government is not responding. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u186	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u187	Maybe it's not that simple, because it's not just the amount of excise duty that's collected, but, as I said earlier, it's a whole range of other goals, environmental, health, which are important. Slovenia has a specific specificity in this area, especially when talking about fuels, that relatively few fuel providers are in Slovenia. That is why we introduced a model price for the whole of Slovenia, because we noticed that monopolies began to be collected and prices went to the sky. That is why we introduced this in 2002. However, given how they are collected, I have to say, given the amount of these excise duties and the comparison that we are doing on a 14-day basis, let us examine what is the price comparison in Slovenia with the countries to which we are bordering. We are also looking at what happens to quantities sold in Slovenia compared to countries bordering Slovenia and then, in view of several factors, not only the price difference, we find it appropriate to adjust excise duty or not. For example, when I became a finance minister, we watched quantities move in Austria and Hungary also in Croatia, because Italy does not have the sense to compare because it has these excise duties so much higher We found that quantities move even faster in Slovenia, saying they increase faster than, say, in Austria and Hungary. [[…]] If we just looked at the price and found on the basis of the price difference, that would not be correct. That's why we adjusted the excise duty to these differences. The model is a little more complex and has many more factors to consider, not just the use, it is said, of the excise duty collected, and not just the price difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u188	Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a procedural debate on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u189	Yes, Mr President, that's exactly what I'm saying. I think that the debate on optimal excise collection, both in terms of environmental burdens and in terms of health, i.e. damage to the health of our citizens and citizens, would be necessary. I would just like to say that a number of foreign road hauliers with worse ones can be said by means of poorer freight vehicles, with lower Eurostandards of exhaust systems transporting the area of Slovenia in all other countries, for all their vehicles they have built a whole range of computers that are somehow connected to fuel suppliers in neighbouring countries. So they don't flood, they don't pay excise duties here. Many Slovenian motorists warn me that they do not request, do not apply for reimbursement fees, because complex procedures are involved, and this percentage is also extremely small. That is why most of our motorists also fuel in neighbouring countries. This is the case. The next example is human health. It has been found that the whole range of citizens who are smokers, Slovenians have not stopped smoking less, but we have started smoking substitutes. This is finely chopped tobacco, which has less excise duty, and on this basis we further damage health. However, they have reduced the purchase of cigarettes in Slovenia by foreigners; those foreigners who would be most beneficial. As a tourist country, to have low excise duties so that when people come to Slovenia, they can buy as much of these excise goods as possible. We're kind of getting them out of this country. Slovenians have not stopped drinking fewer alcoholic beverages because I think other policies in the healthcare system should help. We didn't stop smoking. We have changed our habits – worse tobacco products that cause even more harm to health – and we have reduced our budget entry, which I think should also be a goal. I think that I have proved, I can also prove with numbers, that we have picked up the most in 2012 in the time of the Janša government; in energy units 1 billion and 19 million euros in tobacco products, I think, 445 million euros, and in alcohol and alcohol, I think, 94 million 612 thousand euros. Everything else then began to decrease after 2012. It is true that 2014 has slightly increased this percentage, but this model is wrong. The Minister's reply that it is important that within the country, when people are extremely difficult to live, we reduce the number of jobs of small people. [[…]] Therefore, it does not support any private initiative, if smaller private petrol services could also live at the expense of foreigners. I also spoke with the Petrol representatives. It is the representatives of Petrol who are encouraging the minister to introduce a new excise model, so that they do not hold on to these answers. Therefore, on the basis of a Rule of Procedure, I want – and I think that you too will confirm – one broad public debate on how to obtain more budget resources, we are pursuing both objectives; that is, only our climate and the health of our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u190	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 May 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will ask the Minister of Justice mags a question. To Goran Klemenčič, who is unfortunately absent, I ask her to say whether she wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! The Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin and the Law on Criminal Procedure allow, inter alia, the seizure of property of illegal origin, which is linked to certain costs in terms of the management of seized property. On the basis of those laws, the Regulation on Preservation, Management and Sale Procedures of Unlawful Origin and the Regulation on the Procedure for the Management of Seizures, Assets, Security under the Criminal Procedure Act were also adopted. With regard to the above, I am interested in: Are you assessing, Minister, that the existing system is sufficiently transparent and effectively manages seized assets? Is effective control possible in view of the dispersion of seized items or assets? Are there any estimates as to how much of the funds we are talking about in terms of the annual seizure and the annual cost of storage or possible compensation? Given that the Minister is not present because of his official duties, so he is detained, I would like to request the Minister's oral reply at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u192	Mr Zvonko Lah will raise the question next to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I ask the following questions to the Minister of Infrastructure. With the adoption of the new energy law, support schemes for the production of electricity from renewable sources have changed. By September last year, there was one way to co-finance electricity production, and since then this co-financing has ceased and a new way of co-financing is expected. I want to know: When will the support scheme or the new way of financing electricity be adopted? This practice, in which investors were also counting, is in some way interrupted and I am interested in: What will be the way from now on and how much support will there be compared to existing support? Will it be even more interesting for investors or will it simply be interrupted because we have already reached an already high level of electricity production from renewable sources? I think we are still a few percent short of what the European Community has set for us. I am of the opinion that we have gone too bravely into photovoltaics, that we have spent too much resources there, that we have even more economical and also ways and resources to support them more than photovoltaics, and that the effects will also be better. Some are even linked to economic activity and would also help to compete with this economic activity, and unfortunately there will be no such support. That's why I want to know: From now on, how can investors count on what?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u194	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Member! On this issue of yours - yes, it is true that the scheme for the subsidisation of renewable energy sources in the past is in some way in the past - I will say that I have escaped from the exercise and we have concluded a large number of co-financing contracts in recent years, in particular renewable sources from photovoltaic power plants, and that we now need to ensure that this scheme for co-financing renewable energy sources is more sustainable, as we now find that this annual obligation, which we have to ensure with the contract, is already close to EUR 150 million per year. So some new large, in short, additions to this support scheme can no longer be afforded in some way, and the energy law has also provided for a different approach to co-financing these renewable resources, which I will explain below. In short, the Energy Agency may, on the basis of the energy law adopted last year, issue an invitation to tender if it has a basis for this in the plan to implement the support scheme. At our Ministry, however, in the context of the preparation of the annual energy balance and in the context of the adoption of this balance in the Government, we will endeavour to include a plan for the implementation of the 2016 support scheme, which will provide for a certain amount of additional resources for the implementation of the support scheme and for the entry of new production facilities into this scheme. With regard to the level of support for the specific type of production plant for cogeneration of heat and electricity on wood biomass, unfortunately I cannot give you an accurate answer, as the new regulation under the energy law provides that project providers applying for the tender must offer their price for which they are willing to build and then operate the production facility. This offer must be lower than the reference value, which will be published as a limit value by the Support Regulation, which is also in preparation at the Ministry. The electricity providers of the same technologies will thus compete with each other in the tender and the Energy Agency will distribute the available resources among the projects with the lowest price offered. In short, here we are introducing a way to really reward those who are the most competitive within the available subsidies, and we will therefore get the most efficient and successful facility to contribute this support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u196	Mr. Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u197	Mr Minister, I understand your problem, but in a particular case that you mentioned when it comes to cogeneration on wood biomass, the issue of competitiveness with regard to such cogeneration or the production of electricity abroad. This is likely to interest the Minister of Agriculture in supporting the wood chain. We must be aware that in Slovenia buyers of less quality wood, especially leaves, have run out and there is virtually no redemption in addition to burning or consumption for wood. That where wood plants have certain wastes and could be usefully used, they will not be able to produce electricity or survive for them significantly less than competitors abroad. At the same time, it means non-competitiveness compared to foreign producers and will still drive wood out and because subsidies, for example, in the neighbouring country have been significantly higher than ours, several times higher, and instead of using these wastes usefully at home, the whole logs will be abroad because ours will no longer be competitive. It would be right to look at it more widely from the point of view of supporting the economy and to use as much wood as possible at home, by subsidising electricity production more.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u198	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I agree that in the case of heat and electricity cogeneration facilities, we have an example of wood biomass, which would be useful and meaningful to support because it brings multiple benefits to our economy. However, as it is said, we are limited here to these funds that we have available for these subsidies. We need to know that in some way we still need to cover the missing funds to cover the already concluded contracts that we need to provide for this year's contracts, and to provide an additional window that will also allow these new inputs, as I have mentioned, but in a way where the projects will run on the call. In short, some resources will be available, the most competitive objects will be selected. I hope and hope that among them there will also be facilities for cogeneration of heat and energy into wood biomass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u200	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to ask for a procedural discussion on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u201	Mr President, I would like to take this business opportunity to vote on a possible public debate at a meeting of the National Assembly, because this issue needs to be addressed more broadly; not only in terms of the economy, but also in terms of electricity prices alone. We have in addition to cogenerations where heat and electricity are produced. Producers, these smaller ones, claim that it is only with each other that both are useful or well sold so that they can be competitive. We also have small hydropower plants. Wherever the mills were, they could use it, because we're practically running water energy into nothing. This should also be subsidised before photovoltaics. Despite the lack of money and the fact that we have already achieved such a result, it is necessary to find possible resources because supporting such producers has a multiplier effect. It is not only the price of energy or the price of heat, and as far as CO2 is concerned, there are more effects here. Therefore, I think that no matter what the government has not done the most economically in this area in recent years, and we have quickly spent this money, which will be at the end of these signed contracts in the value of one TER 6. Nevertheless, I think that we must prevent this natural wealth, such as wood, from being exported out; that it is useful for the home to be competitive, but that we must process everything, including the waste that is in production itself. If we do not subsidise as much of the electricity produced as the aliens do, we will not be competitive with those wood products, and economic damage will occur and wood will be exported abroad, and then we will import semi-products or even products from our wood. That is why I think that the idea is that the Government, including the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, should cooperate here and really ensure some real economic policy in this area too, because there may be that small added value in the sale of electricity which creates the competitiveness of our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u202	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19 May 2015, in the framework of the votes. And now the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble, is asking Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u203	President, thank you so much for your word! International organisations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank play an extremely important role in consolidating public finances. Very often they set certain objectives and requirements which then dictate measures that have a decisive impact on individual countries or on individual key social subsystems within these countries. That way we could describe the state of things if we described it as kind. In fact, these organisations are regarded as exploiting a number of small countries when they are in debt crisis, but also if they have fallen into a debt crisis not on their own account, they are forced to reduce public spending in return for support in the form of a so-called stand by arrangement to open up the land for capital and trade flows and force them further into privatisation. The International Monetary Fund has done so not only in the third world, but also in the case of some European countries that were in financial difficulties in 2010. Contrary to popular propaganda or popular belief, these countries have not gone into financial trouble because their public sector would be too large, but because they have saved the occupied banks, they have often occupied private banks. The most exclusive cases here are Ireland, Portugal and, of course, Greece. However, it has happened that the International Monetary Fund, while managing its old policy, has suddenly changed some rhetoric and has acknowledged that saving in the public sector is indeed a source of economic growth or even a trigger to recession in some cases and has continued to advise that the path from the crisis is a public investment that has high multiplier effects. In short, once after 2010, the International Monetary Fund has become a complete schizophrenic institution, on the one hand, implementing completely unreasonable and destructive policies that have created an ever-increasing economic, social and political disaster in certain countries, while on the other hand acknowledging the unreasonableness of these same policies through its own economic analyses. However, the following thing fell into our eyes in the Stability Programme, I quote, 'the gradual introduction of reports on the effectiveness of the public finances system. Together with the IMF, a benchmark will be carried out and a review of procedures in the areas of social policy and education, which will serve to create improvements in the system." End of quote. Mr. Dushan Marble, I'm interested in: What exactly do the representatives of the International Monetary Fund find and check with us? What status will their findings have? How much are the labour costs and residence costs of IMF representatives in Slovenia, and from which item is their work financed? Why was the IMF selected for review? What criteria were followed? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u204	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u205	Dear Mr. Miha Kordish! In its efforts to achieve sustainable fiscal consolidation, which in addition to the short-term objectives, is to reduce the budget deficit below 3% in 2015, including balancing the budget of the state sector and achieving a sustainable level of indebtedness, the Ministry of Finance wants to establish a regular review process of budgetary expenditure. This year, this review will cover three areas that represent the largest shares on the expenditure side of public finances. These are social protection, health and education. Given that the health review in cooperation with the World Health Organization is already under way, the process will cover only social protection and education. The purpose of the expenditure review is to determine whether public funds are used effectively and prudently in a particular area. The regular expenditure reviews are therefore the basis for the formulation of a public expenditure policy based on the programme budget. We are assessing whether a given volume of public financial expenditure – about 1.2 billion for transfers to individuals and households and 1.6 billion for transfers to public education institutions – could benefit more effectively and even reduce certain expenditure without having a negative impact on the level of rights or services we provide in a given area. Representatives of the International Monetary Fund or their Department of Fiscal Affairs have responded to my request to assist us in the process of establishing a regular review with technical assistance. Their representatives were at the time of 30. Four to 12. 5. on a technical mission in Slovenia. They prepared a comparative analysis of the expenditure side of the budget of various European countries and presented them at the workshop at ministerial level. In the following days, they cooperated with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the UMAR, the Court of Auditors and some external experts, and presented their findings in the report Establishing the expenditure review process. The findings and proposals of the International Monetary Fund will serve as a basis for the establishment of working groups and the preparation of a review of public financial expenditure from those areas. The groups will make proposals at the professional level and the decision-making bodies will, of course, be the Government and the National Assembly with regard to the implementation of certain proposed measures. The visit of the International Monetary Fund did not create costs for the state budget, as the International Monetary Fund offers free technical assistance to its members. Of course, the International Monetary Fund was selected because of its fiscal references, because it is number one in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u206	Miha Kordish has the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u207	President, thank you for your word. I would certainly like to complete this response. If I had you correctly, Mr Dusan Maramor, I understand that it was you who invited the IMF to our country. What exactly? You have mentioned some reports that reports have been made as a result of an IMF visit to us I have not seen these reports, I do not know what their reports say, so I can only guess from past practices with these institutions. [[…]] Thus, I will not miss much if I compare them with some of the views expressed by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, which is another neo-liberal fortress and has come up with its report two weeks ago. In particular, the OECD states, as has been the case with the IMF, that the costs of education are comparatively high. As a solution to this problem, it recommends that, for example, the number of pupils per teacher should be increased, recommends the retirement of staff in higher education from the public servants system, presumably because the academic elite is still underpaid, and concludes its recommendations by ensuring that schooling is a good thing in higher education. In this light, Dr. Marble, I ask: Do you agree with the OECD position and the expected position of the International Fund? This one, from what I hear, has already served with these views that it is too much money for our school system. And if yes: Where exactly does that show up? Is the number of students really too large? Are the school lunches too generous? Or do we have too many scholarships and are too extensive? That's what I'm interested in: At which meeting of the Government or which authorities did the International Monetary Fund even grant a mandate to dissect our education and social services, or was it your sole action, or what was the story here at the back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u208	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u209	I'll be very brief. In fact, this technical assistance from these international institutions, where we are members, has, of course, been available for decades. Since I was a finance minister for the first time, we have received in various areas a comparison of our system with that of other countries, and from this point of view, we have also been able to create an opinion on what would be wise for us to do. They presented to us, as I said, a report on the establishment of the expenditure review process, where they presented to us in the report how these sections, which are currently working, should go into these areas. The final objective is to obtain as much services or rights as possible or, on the other hand, as little money as possible, the right or service. This is only a purely normal thing to do by the finance minister; that is to worry about rational spending of money, and that is to say that the services needed by the state are also provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u210	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a procedural discussion on the response to the next regular session.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u211	President, thank you for your word. Of course, I would like to see Mr Marble's reply, our finance minister, held by this national assembly. Whenever a finance minister of a country, an alleged sovereign state, invites to dissect health, education and social funds of the International Monetary Fund, it is worth discussing in the country's highest legislative body. However, if there are some very innocent rationalisations, it will not end up in this debate. Certainly, however, it is extremely problematic that we have the IMF with us and that this is certainly not a problem and that we should give it a few things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u212	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19. 5. 2015, in the context of the votes As next, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear ministers, ministers and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Mrs Anji Kopač Dark. Work and employment in black and various forms of recreation are not only harmful to such workers themselves, as they do not have any or only provide minimum social protection, but also constitute harm to pension, health and other social goods. They are also unfair competition for employees, because they collide the cost of work, they entail tax evasion and they are the cause of unjustifiable access or an unjustified amount of various social rights, such as monetary social assistance, children's allowances, scholarships and so on. The fact is that not only are young individuals today, but those of the middle and older generations are sometimes really forced to hold on to every job, either on a whim or even work in black. Simply for their own survival, that is, for the survival of their family and their children, they are literally forced to hold on to illegal or black work. Of course, the payment at hand is only a modest payment. In 2000, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, although this legislation has changed and amended over all the years, I am sure that it is in a positive direction. Of course, in my view, it is essential that we stop or stifle work in a black and grey economy and thereby root out exploitation by employers, as well as the effectiveness of the work of the competent inspection services. Madam Minister, I'm interested in the following: Can you comment on the effects of the new legislation adopted last year? Have you seen the results yet? Are they positive in terms of reducing the volume of work to black? Do we have more applications from the workers themselves and possibly from other applicants? Are inspection services more or more on the ground in terms of past malnutrition in terms of field work? In view of the recent advice on the forms of remuneration, I am briefly interested in further concrete steps taken by the ministry or the government in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u214	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u215	Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for asking. It seems to me that you have opened up a topic that is certainly very important, a work on black, a grey economy. So, black work is only part of the grey economy, you have raised the issue correctly, it is a problem on the one hand of the rights of individuals who are robbed of fundamental rights both in the field of labour law, social security, but of course the society or the community as a whole suffers, because contributions are not paid and of course this affects our country, prosperity, on the other hand of course, constitutes unfair competition. In 2014, the adopted amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, which entered into force with 18. Last year's 8th year is an important step forward mainly because this law established the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and in particular transferred the competence to identify work in black from the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work to this newly established financial administration. Which is very important because we were able to activate customs officers who are currently in control of prevention or control of black work, which means that mobile units are activated and the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia still has more time and more power to deal with violations of labour law. For example, a positive result is that last year at the inspectorate we found 100 checks carried out for 16% more infringements, as far as labour law is concerned, which is important. More information on the report itself will also be discussed in the framework of the National Assembly at the parent committee on the Labour Report of the Inspectorate of Slovenia for the work to be carried out next month, as will the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the detection and prevention of work and employment in black, where it will make an assessment of the situation, recommendations where it will also be accurate what happened last year. The Government has already adopted this Grey Economy Project, where we are actively interfering with the whole area – that is, work on the black is only one, where it is particularly important to show higher inflows such as tax, i.e. comprehensively – and the government is also continuing to introduce tax registers in this area. As far as we are concerned, the policy of our Ministry of Finance and Health, together with the Ministry of Finance and Health, is the logic that each work is considered to be, by saying, more plausible forms of employment, which are compared to less legal and social rights in relation to contracts of employment, we are also trying to identify the costs of these forms of work on the market and, of course, to make these forms less interesting for employers, while at the same time giving people working in these forms of employment basic social security. So, for example, students with contributions to pension and disability insurance guarantee future rights in the pension system, while at the same time building intergenerational solidarity, which is still important in our society. We're going to continue with that, so every piece of work counts with logic. However, it is an important government project, where we can only succeed together, a comprehensive tax reform aimed at reducing labour costs and reallocations from property or labour costs in order to shift to other items, that is, assets and capital. So the basic thing is that the cost of work is going down. At the same time, we will be more competitive, but not at the expense of social security bills, where contributions are crucial mainly in terms of providing uninterrupted funds for pension, health insurance and other contributions, i.e. for monetary compensation and parental protection, which are basically part of the social security system. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u216	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat you have the floor to make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you the following questions. By the way, I have a feeling, and I also have data that shows that we're growing on the laundromat. Okay, we said, every job counts, but I still think this agency work, for example, is increasing, in 2013, there were 6 000 645 employees, July 2014, that is, after one year, 10 000 638. [[…]] Here I am particularly concerned about this chaining or inconsistent implementation of the regulation, so that, if it turns out that his work is permanently necessary, the worker will be regularly employed. That's not something you do. In addition, the work of self - employed, so - called espies, is increasing. I think it would be advisable to hire more inspectors and more on the financial board who would carry out more rigorous control in companies, and I am convinced that, with their work, when they find out the violations, and with these fines, they would cover the cost of their work. I also have a feeling of black work after knowing the situation, when you hear it, you see, you find that workers work in black, even though they can be employed regularly, the owners of these companies make huge profits in their pockets, and they pay the employee by hand. I think we should step up the inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u218	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you. Our Labour Relations Act is one of the few in Europe that clearly states that if it is elements of a working relationship, it is necessary to conclude a contract of employment. Unfortunately, this is not being done. The inspection is closely monitored, and there will be a number of actions in this area in the coming days, and the public will also be more aware of them. I agree that if we had more inspectors, we might be more effective, but let's not close our eyes. We will never have enough inspectors to control, because it is also a general culture in the country we live in. With regard to agency workers, I would like to inform you that the amendment introduced in 2014 has, however, done some positive things within the agency's work. In fact, before that, we had – and this was the basic objective, which was also agreed with the social partners – only 48% of agency employees for an indefinite period of time, with the amendment of legislation, are still agency workers, but they still have 84% of the job for an indefinite period of time, because such a change in legislation, which means greater social security from their point of view. This was one of the main objectives. The number of intermediaries, i.e. agencies that can intervene, has also decreased significantly by amending legislation. However, it is a fact that flexibility on the market must be ensured. And of course, it is a key criterion that we agree that some flexibility is necessary, but not at the expense of the social security of workers and that a certain right balance needs to be found inside. As for the practical forms of employment, this is, unfortunately, a global European problem. However, I am pleased that the European Commission has chosen us as a good practice country and we will host next month, with representatives of Portugal, Lithuania and Poland coming to us, who will be familiar with the measures that Slovenia, as a country, is taking in this area. In fact, if you compare the Slovenian situation and the Slovenian labour market, the share of pastime jobs is still significantly lower than elsewhere. In fact, we have only a larger share of self-employed people, where we also approach a new active employment policy with a different policy, and even when we are talking about tax policy and contributions, we will have to open a debate on how to ensure the mechanisms of security and solidarity among those who are espouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u220	He will now be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Mr Andrej Chus asked Diane the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, other members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! A good month ago I attended a public consultation on agriculture in Lower Podravje, which took place in Gorišnica in the organization of the Biotechnical School Ptuj and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber – from the office on Ptuj. I must say that the debate was very long, broad, substantive and qualitative. Some representatives of the Ministry were also present. Above all, there were speeches on the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia 2014-2020. On 13 February, the European Commission officially endorsed our programme, which is one of the first in Europe to have this programme approved, on 24. 4. In 2015, I also saw on the website a proposal for a regulation for young farmers. I must say that I am pleased that decision makers at European Union level are also aware that fewer and fewer young people are deciding to choose a farmer for their future or their profession. That is why, of course, I also support measures such as the Youth Regulation. It was also presented in the consultation itself or in some segments of the regulation for young farmers, and I must say that everything is nice and right, because given that the age of farmers in Slovenia is 56 years and we are getting older, we have, in comparison with other countries, very old or old farmers and farmers, such measures are true. And I want to know: When will the regulation be adopted? I think it's accepted by the government. In this public debate, which was published, any specific comments were received? Have any been taken into account? When can we also expect the first tenders resulting from the adoption of the said Regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u222	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food is responsible. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the current question. Let me tell you a timer. 11. 5. The public debate has ended. Further negotiations are under way with the social partners at this time. We have also discussed this in the last Agriculture Council, and we are moving forward in this way to plan for the Government to approve the regulation 24. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is how we expect the first calls at the middle of this year. The main issues raised in the course of the debate are the question of how far back it can be. You know that the 12-month principle applies in the European legal order. We managed to negotiate for eighteen months, so those who met the conditions eighteen months ago still come in as young farmers. Other questions were: Can criteria be lowered? At this point, we have the following criteria, that's 6 hectares of comparable surfaces or 15 GVZs, and I think it's another 60 bees. Why are such criteria? Such criteria are because Slovenia opted for a high first subsidy, which is essentially a start-up subsidy of EUR 45 000 and we had to prove that this means one minimum salary per month. If we dropped this amount, say 20,000, we would probably leave us even lower thresholds, and when we presented this dilemma to the young and the rural population, I must say that suddenly there were a lot of questions, not answers. How do we understand the invitations now? Slovenian agri-agricultural establishments have reviewed the terrain and we have the first list, which is temporary, can change some numbers, otherwise the list is such that in the first tender there is expected to be 191 young farmers or farmers who are insured from agriculture, a single amount of EUR 45 000 – so the amount for this part of the tender must be EUR 8.6 million – and probably 207 young farmers or young farmers who are insured outside agriculture. Here is the amount of one-off support of €18 000 600, and of course we will do it somewhere in the middle of this year. But let me tell you one more piece of information. If we combine both numbers, we are expected to get 398, that is, 400 young farmers and farmers who will start running farms. The data is completely new, but the current number is as follows: around 55,000 farms have applied for direct payments, about 440 thousand hectares, within which 3 000 670 young farmers have applied for a scheme for young farmers, which means for 5 years 25% of the higher payment. From this we conclude that 6,7 % of the farms that have applied are run by farmers and farmers belonging to a group of young farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u224	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u225	As a Member and representative of all people, however, I am particularly much in my area, so much so in the area of the municipalities of Juršinci, Markovci, Gorišnica. I must say that many young people have approached me in sent offices, through social networks and have also made some comments. Allow me to read one: "Our farm included 20 hectares of orchards and 10 hectares of forests and fields before distribution. We have been working with fruit for more than 30 years. With my father and my mother, my younger brother and I are also interested in fertilizing. This spring we decided to take over part of the farm, 7 hectares of apples, a bad hectare of strawberries and 5 hectares of forests. I've moved to my own, I've set up an MID farm, I've got all the paperwork, I've got my education, I'm in the Global G.A.P. process, basically, everything that's needed. I am fulfilling all the conditions except one – because I will only take over part of the farm. In time, the younger brother, who has the same education, will take over his household and stay in the land. I therefore ask you why you restrict farms with multiple children in obtaining these funds. My brother and I are very happy to do farm work. Why should she be neglected for this? Why should we be deprived of part of the aid because we both want to do business on a farm? I meet all the conditions except one. It seems unfair to me that this is how they restrict our development. Would it be better if I took over the whole farm on my own and my brother went to the employment office? We should encourage those young people who want to run a farm, not restrict them. We want to work, we want to create. All I want is the same conditions. Since I've been going my own way, I could really use the help I mentioned." This is one of the comments I hope you will take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u226	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food is responsible. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u227	I must say, we have tried to take as many comments as possible. However, the fact is that we must not encourage the sharing of farms. It should be borne in mind that the first payment is intended for the additional expansion of the farm but is not intended for the fragmentation of the farms. That is why it is also behind this five-year period. Secondly, we must be aware that behind this requirement is that a young farmer who wants the full payment of EUR 45 000 must be insured from agriculture. But if it works elsewhere and is insured elsewhere, it is an additional activity of some kind and then it is a payment of €18 000 600. The next question is how high the amount is. We often like to make comparisons with neighbouring Austria, which you know is the institution of the rural development programme. The European Rural Development Programme was created essentially in Austria and Austria has a single payment of €15 000, not €45 000. When we had to defend our borders, i.e. EUR 45 000 before the European Union Commission, we had the following two arguments. The first argument was that because of the specifics. So we started the restructuring process a little later than, say, Austria and other competing countries or their farmers, we need a bigger amount. Secondly, we have a very large number of areas that are considered as areas with limited farming factors. By the way, of these 440 thousand hectares, there are 330,000 hectares of OMD in Slovenia. That was also the reason they let us. But if we change the criteria now, we let them go, and this leads us to lower the amount of payments that farmers receive as first aid to start our farm. And this is a debate where the opinion within the young agricultural area is also different. Desires were made to be the first EUR 70,000, which was not possible, and EUR 45 000 is that compromise. Let me just say this. We have the dynamics of payments, as it is, we have €60 million of money, allowing us to reach within the population up to 4% of the new young farmers who take over the farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u228	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request a procedural debate on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, again. With some of the arguments made by Mr Minister, I agree, but not with some. I find it problematic, therefore, that there is no solution in this Regulation for family farms or also for multi-child farms. It should also be pointed out that the said text of the Regulation will be adopted by the Government and that the National Assembly will not play any role in this. It would therefore be appropriate and right to discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly and to make a proposal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to hold a discussion on the response to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u230	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19. 5. 2015, in the context of the votes Mr Jan Mahnic will now raise the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has a great perspective mainly in tourism and culture, of course we can connect these two things. Tourists have recently been very interested in visiting cultural sites and stories that can be offered by local communities in connection with culture. In this House I have already pointed out the High Tavčar Palace, which we have in the Polish Valley. I have also addressed to the Ministry of Culture the written question of how it is with the means to rebuild this castle so that we will not fail because we have already launched a tourist offer. The Minister replied that the possibilities for co-financing cultural monuments and public cultural infrastructure facilities owned by municipalities under the operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials 2007-2013 have been exhausted. However, the problem is that in a partnership agreement with the European Commission, the former government of Alenka Bratušek for the period 2014-2020 did not provide a priority investment for the protection, preservation and development of cultural heritage in order to enable the direct withdrawal of European grants under this heading to be made possible. As a result, the Ministry of Culture will seek to secure funds elsewhere. On 12 May, a public hearing was concluded on the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes. I must say that I welcome this law, which was prepared by the Ministry, because it is aimed at preserving cultural heritage and promoting, I can say, the historical memory and preservation of those objects that are connected with the history of the Slovenian people. The assessment here was, in particular, that 94 million EUR 500 000 was spent in the period 1999-2003, which means 31 % of all the funds envisaged. This law also provides for the rehabilitation of the most vulnerable and most quality units of cultural heritage, both owned by the State and owned by the municipalities. I am pleased to note that our Tavern Palace is also in here. I'm interested in the scheme itself. This law will be given to Members of the National Assembly when, I hope, the Minister of Finance will also negotiate the amount successfully at the Ministry of Finance. The outlook is 2016-2020 and the programme weighs EUR 167 million 922 000 536. Of which, for 2016, EUR 9 million. My main question, Mr. Minister, is: What is your view of this program? Is this number gonna be real? Will it be possible, as envisaged here, to provide €9 million for these programmes already in 2016 and then, of course, a successful implementation will follow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u232	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u233	Dear Mr Jean Mahnic, this question is not a question for me, of course, but for the Minister in question. Let me explain. I'm sorry. For us in Slovenia, the preparation of the state budget proposal is two-stage. The first stage is completed when the Government adopts the frameworks at its budget meeting and then cuts the budget expenditure according to the programme structure and the financial plans. At this second stage, each department minister becomes his own finance minister. It is said that it is trying to prepare its work programme and financial plan for the next planned periods within the planned, within the framework of government-approved limits, which means that it has to draw up a financial plan that takes into account all legal obligations and that it has to plan in more detail for individual programme content. It is said that it is no longer a matter of the Minister of Finance, but after cutting it off, it is a matter of the Minister of Culture. However, I will answer that question. We had this law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, which was adopted for the first time in 1998, in force from 1999 to 2003, with which funds amounting to approximately EUR 103 million were provided. In fact, 34 million euros were spent, about 32.5% of the planned funds. It was no longer possible because the sum was too high in terms of abilities. In 2002, a law on amendments and additions was adopted extending the implementation of the 2004-2008 law, which should provide a total of 122 million euro in the State budget. Of these, 42 million were realised, amounting to 35%. In 2008, the Act on Amendments and Supplements renewed the deadline for the implementation of unrealised projects until 2013. The Republic of Slovenia is expected to provide €80 million for the implementation of unrealised programmes with annual budgets every time between 2009 and 2013. During the period 2009-2013, a total of 22,4 % of the funds foreseen were used and made available for implementation. If we take the whole period 1999-2013, 94 million and 31 % of all the funds envisaged have been used. We can see from what has been presented when this law was in force in the period 1999-2013, the plans for limited financial resources were very unrealistic. Therefore, we do not think it makes sense to continue to establish a list of projects with unrealistic funding dynamics. There is a third part of the budget, i.e. a four-year development programme plan, with all sources of funding, budgetary and other, which shows the planned expenditure by project group, project and action and funding resources per year for the overall implementation of projects or measures. In our view, there is sufficient reason not to adopt or extend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u234	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I cannot agree with you that this is not your area, because I have asked you about the financial consequences or financial structure of this law, and not the content of this law itself, and I have already asked the Ministry of Culture how it is. They said that they had done their part with this, and now they have some difficult thing to do, this is to negotiate with the Ministry of Finance to provide these funds. And I have decided to ask you a question, not a minister who will come to you to negotiate for these funds, and I know that she will do everything she can to get it. But I ask you, not least, who are you who are preparing this budget for 2016 and beyond and you usually have the last word. Our cultural heritage is failing, in the coalition contract you have under culture, under the 10th point of the restoration of cultural heritage. This law, however, represents the very realization of a coalition treaty, which is, of course, only to be welcomed. Everything is covered here, from cultural monuments, public-cultural infrastructure, bibliobuses, permanent storage and digitisation, Slovenian language in the digital environment and so on. The total value of 167 million, very specific. My question is the same as before. As far as NRP is concerned, we know how it is. Yes, for 4 years ahead, NRPs are meant to somehow see what will be the development of certain projects, that the country has some goals where it wants to be in the next four years. But with these NRPs it is also so, we see from the past that from year and year then it shifts and delays. So will the Minister of Culture be successful when she gets to you? As for the internal incision, I agree with you. But then it's her job to cut these projects off, even if she doesn't get that number.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u236	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I know you won't be happy with me, because just writing the law and writing a certain amount in it is relatively easy, but it's relatively difficult to get the right funds for such funding. That's a wish list for me. The government will consider its budgetary framework for 2016, 2017 and beyond by 2019. In this context, there will be a cut, which will be roughly the same as the cut in 2015. Within this cut, ministries have to allocate, fund their obligations. And of course I also belong to this extent of the obligations that the Ministry of Culture has wished for these purposes. Of course, these intentions are very meaningful and, in this respect, difficult to challenge, but on the other hand, they are also very meaningful in other areas, and it is necessary to weigh between infrastructure, roads, railways, more money for education and so on. The areas are very large, the government will cut down and then the Minister will have to decide within this what its priority is in the cultural field.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u238	The question will now be raised by Mrs Urška Ban, Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, who is absent, I ask whether she wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. My question concerns the regulation of the relevant conditions for the functioning of local and regional media, which have been given the so-called status of implementation of programmes of particular importance. Local or regional radio and television programmes of particular importance are important to complement the implementation of public RTV Slovenia programmes. Both have similar and binding programming requirements regarding content related to the status of special importance. At the same time, local and regional media are key because they create a direct link between the public and the local community and thus complement the public service. The preparation of such content is comparatively more expensive than the preparation of commercial content and therefore sufficient co-financing of such media is of particular importance from public resources. Our fundamental coherent objective must be taken into account: consistent regional development of Slovenia. While the media law provides for project co-financing of such programme content, these budgetary resources are often too small and are year after year to meet the purpose. At the same time, in accordance with the State aid scheme in force, it is not possible to allocate these budgetary resources for the dissemination of programmes. Such a non-systemic arrangement for funding programmes of particular importance, which has also been joined by the cost of broadcasting via multiplex, often does not allow for the quality of implementation of their statutory mission and purpose. Following the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial broadcasting, broadcasters of television programmes had a particular importance in themselves to finance the transition to digital broadcasting, which, of course, costed them a lot. In addition, this has led to an intervention into the rights already acquired, as this has established inequalities between radio and television media. The acute situation in local and regional media is deteriorating from month to month and their future is very uncertain. In light of what I'm saying, I'm asking the following question: What is the position of the Ministry of Culture on the implementation of the programme of particular importance, which provides the necessary quantity and quality of information in a specific local environment? On the basis of the paper, has the Ministry prepared a strategy for the further implementation of such content and the regulation of the status of such content? Does the Ministry plan to amend the Law on Media and the Law on RTV Slovenia, which would provide programmes of particular importance with a systemic and longer-term funding method and ensure free dissemination via multiplex A? How is technical support for RTV Slovenia of particular importance to local and regional programmes? How does RTV Slovenia charge the costs of extending the programme of special importance? According to my information, despite the provisions of Article 114a of the Media Act, which allows for the exemption of the costs of distribution. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u240	Now the Minister of the Interior is going to be a magician. Ms Anja Bah Žibert raised a question in the spring of Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u241	Dear Minister, Minister, President! As far as the police are concerned, guidance and monitoring of the performance of police duties is also among your tasks. The Minister, or in this case, shall give the police instructions and mandatory instructions for work. It may order the police to carry out certain tasks within the limits of their competence and to take certain measures. In connection with these powers, I am interested in: What guidance and guidance do you give to the police when it comes to public events and gatherings and when it comes to the security of the country, since there are double criteria for dealing with such matters? Let me explain on the case. During the Committee's 2014 meetings, provocations with symbols of the totalitarian communist regime came before the court. Given the fact that you are at the same time extremely tolerant of these glorifications of non-democratic calls, I ask you this time: Why such disinterest and milkiness when the flag of the Somali extremely Islamist Hizbul Islam appeared among the provokers? This party is already in the United Nations and EU documents. It is linked to the recruitment, use and abuse of children in armed conflicts. Their targets in the fights are civilians, including children and women. At a time when the entire democratic world condemns and unites against the terrorism and atrocities of the Islamic extremists, you are somehow responsible to those who are publicly sympathetic to us. I hope you're even aware of what you're doing with such behavior. On the other hand, at the recent event of the Association of Fighters for the values of NOBs in Ljubljana, an individual was removed from the scene, who expressed his dissatisfaction only through peaceful protest, which is, of course, entirely human and constitutional rights. So the Minister is the double criteria of the repressive authority, which is, of course, not only unacceptable, but especially dangerous. That's why I'm asking you publicly: What are you doing with our police? Can we even talk about turning it back into a human crutch? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u242	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you, President, for your word. First of all, I must say that your announced questions are completely different from what you are asking me today, so in this context I will also answer. You asked me how the ministry and the police ensure equal treatment in the area of maintenance of public order and protection of life and personal security in the event of public meetings or at public events and meetings. As far as your previous question of the mission is concerned, my answer remains the same. And it is still for you, too, in the context of today's issue, that if you have information on any specific actions to file a criminal complaint. You know what the procedure is, either to the D.A. or to the police. However, as regards the way in which the constitutional right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies at public meetings is exercised, you are well aware that this is regulated by the Public Assembly Act, which also regulates the right to organise and participate in these events, where it is also stipulated that no one is allowed to prevent participation at a public meeting or event, except where the law so provides, and that it is also prohibited to interfere or impede the course of the meeting or event. Article 6 also provides that it is prohibited to organise meetings or events with a view to the commission of criminal offences or to call for the commission of offences or for the purpose of causing violence, public order or public traffic. If you have any information suggesting that a crime has been committed, you are also somehow obliged to file a criminal complaint. The procedure is prescribed in the Criminal Procedure Act. As far as the police are concerned. The police shall, within the framework of their powers, consistently implement all measures which are in accordance with the law on the application of both constitutional provisions and the provisions laid down in the Law on Public Collections. In any event, the police, in the event of suspicion of detection or reporting, either of the infringements or, worse, of the crime of the measure and also ensure the smooth enjoyment of all constitutional rights. The fundamental duty of the police, as we know, is to protect the lives, personal security and property of the people and to maintain public order, which it carries out by carrying out its duties and all the powers it has under law and by law. In carrying out the tasks, the police shall certainly ensure equal treatment of all participants in public meetings, as it also applies to the public administration as well, in any case, that it is obliged to act on the basis of the principle of professionalism, legality and equal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u244	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer, not to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u245	My time has run out. Thank you very much. Look, Minister, I think I specifically asked you, and the announcement was very concrete. We are talking about double criteria when it comes to public order and peace at events. One and the other was an event, and the police were there to ensure public order and peace. I told you about the threat that was on one side, and somewhere else where the protestor was, he was removed. So I'm talking about double criteria. It is true, however, that I have already asked you a number of questions in this National Assembly, and I have never received a concrete answer before. That's the way it is today. I believe that this is only about arrogance and your attitude towards the Member, and I hope that this is so, because otherwise I will start to think that you are simply not part of the function you are performing. I'm talking about a threat that's happening with us. I have told you a concrete example of what has happened, we know what is going on in Europe, and tomorrow this can happen to us. And I was talking about there was no action, and on the other hand, just because someone was there, they were removed from the scene. I told you the double criteria. You are the Minister and you are obliged to act in this country, because if you ask individuals to act when it comes to the threat of peace, then God will have mercy on us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u246	The Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Given that you have now scanned this discourse also on the content of your question, you have not indicated in your question what you are specifically interested in. Today, however, you are asking me about specific factual circumstances, namely specific events that are supposed to take place on the ground. In my capacity as Minister of the Interior, I cannot give you concrete answers today because you have not asked a specific question. You know, honourable Member, I am not an authority of detection and investigation, I am doing a political function, and I also think that your function is very serious, that you send me only one sentence, while your colleagues send the whole page and explain the background of the question what they really want. You asked me a theoretical question, and now you're asking me for a concrete answer. You know, I don't work for the police. I'm the Minister of the Interior. And I also think, given that you're challenging my capabilities, I'm telling you that your function is far too serious. You exercise control over the executive branch of the authorities and the function of the questions sent is not to play hide-and-seek with the minister over the weekend, but in the future ask me a question, specifically tell me what happened, where happened, we will give inquiries and I will give you a concrete answer. Unfortunately, in a way that you are sending me parliamentary questions, I cannot specifically answer you. And this isn't the first time. I really urge you to let us rise to another level, let us explain, tell us what you perceived as a Member and then you will be able to exercise much better control over my work. Because that way I don't have the data, I'm not the investigating authority, and I can't answer you. I can answer you theoretically, but I don't think that's necessary because you know the law, you know the Law on Public Assembly, you probably know the Penal Code. So I suggest you put me in the future so that I can give you a concrete and actually constructive answer, because this is not how I can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u248	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to request a procedural discussion on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u249	Madam Minister, I have made a specific case in order to understand why I am talking about double criteria. But I asked you very clearly what you do with the police or what instructions you give them, given that there are double standards. That was the starting point of my question. Look, don't be mad at me if you weren't able to or didn't want to answer. And please don't work here from this question, now how long has it been been exactly my question and even at the beginning I've told you what I'm asking. [[…]] I'm talking about what your instructions are. You're also the minister for our police to work smoothly. And above all, it is a body that will take care of all citizens. I think that, given that this is happening, such discussions would be very important. You know, it's not about who's gonna be somebody or who's gonna be louder, but it's about making sure that we all make sure that this country is safe together. And with the attitude we have now that they can walk along the road with flags that call and threaten world peace today, something is wrong. And that's all they'd answer me. What are your instructions? That was my question about double criteria. Thank you very much. I hope that the National Assembly will hold the debate, of course I will say this, even if the President would like to warn me, as you did today, colleague Simono Kustec Lipicer, who initially abused the Institute of Procedure, but of course did not receive a warning. I hope I don't deserve it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u250	You got that right, but that was really right at the beginning, and it was my fault. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 19. 5. 2015, in the context of the votes However, I have to say in general, and this is generally true that it would be really good, let's say in this case, if these two cases were mentioned, the Minister would find it much easier. I am talking in general about how specific the questions are. Some are really very, very specific, but some are really simple, and then sometimes it's very difficult to do how and what. That's why I'm saying, I'm not speaking in general, I think we're going to have to talk about this at the College or in the closed section of the College. I know that there were guidelines sometimes, and that if they were too specific, you were then denied that the presidents would leave such questions to be asked. But I think it would be more appropriate and even more pleasant if these questions were a little more concrete. But now this is not a warning as such, but it is true for the whole set of questions that come, unfortunately, on this side, but others are at least longer, I can see that. Let's move on. Mr Franc Laj will now raise the question to the Minister of Health, Mrs María Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is unfortunately absent. So I'm asking you whether you're asking for a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u251	Dear Presidents, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The article in Acts 23 encouraged me to raise the oral question. 4. In Slovenia, there are thousands of doctors missing, the information I received at the Murska Sobota General Hospital regarding human resources malnutrition on the one hand and the difficulties in hiring even my fellow students, graduates, medical colleges on the other and, last but not least, the public debate on the Emergency Medical Regulation. What's the problem? They currently have 21 scholarships, of which 8 graduates. During their internship, they have the opportunity to hire them, but then there is the problem of how to proceed. The problem is mainly hampered by specialization. Why? This is because the call for specialisation is mostly inadequate, not by number or by profile. Thus, it is often the case that a good diplomat is forced to seek another solution, the most often a solution outside the country, which in the long term certainly has an extremely negative impact on the health system itself, the quality of healthcare and, last but not least, the extent to which the company invests in one such diplomat, which is measured somewhere after my available data, also up to EUR 300,000, which is also very damaging from the point of view of society as a whole. However, if they are able to reach specialisation, they are often employed at the time of specialisation, but when they complete the specialisation, they are unfortunately unable to obtain employment due to the barrier of the ZUJF. I'm asking the Minister: Is he preparing measures to address this problem and thereby enable the employment of home doctors, prevents the escape of quality staff and improves health care? I sincerely thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u252	Sing or lips?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u253	Sing it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u254	The question will now be raised by Violet Tomić to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Gaspersic. The answer to my written question came so late that I was already afraid that it would not be. By the way, it was set at 5. 5. 2015, he's only here 30. 3. In short, I am pleased that the resources of €3.4 million provided by the Government of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy will benefit you from activities in the southern section of the 3rd development axis from the accession of Malina to Metlika or Montenegro. However, in a written reply with inconsistentity, you did not convince me that this would be the case. At the beginning of the reply, you write, "although at the Ministry, the possibilities of spending available technical assistance resources for the period 2007-2013 amounting to €3.4 million to carry out other activities carried out on the project of the southern part of the 3rd development axis, i.e. to pay for the services already provided in the second section of the procedure from the connection of Malina to Metlika or Montenegro." The answer, however, is: "By the Ministry, all the possibilities for rational use of available EU funds for road infrastructure and the activities carried out for the continuous flow of activities in the first section of the Southern part of the 3rd development axis have been explored and realized." Which is able to be understood as a negative result. However, time is still running relentlessly, and it shows that slow response will not result in projects for the construction permit for the tunnel during a time that would allow the land to be used from the tunnel for the construction of the Cat-Revoz section. So the builders will have to buy and transport the land from elsewhere, instead of using the tunnel, which means additional unreasonable costs, which will then increase when the excess land from the tunnel has to be taken away again. It was not possible to determine from your written reply whether the transfer of investment to Dars, d.d., would allow the bridge to be bridged by at least four months' delay and whether funds were provided for the immediate development of tunnel projects. That's why I'm asking you: Will you spend €3.4 million on activities related to the southern part of the third development axis or not? If you do not use them, will they remain unused? When will Dars, as a competent investor, begin to design at the stage of the Poganci dissection to connect Malina with the Gorjanci tunnel? Does Dars already have financial resources for these activities, and from what sources? How will you ensure the financial and material efficiency of the project in view of the fact that, at the moment, there is a clear time gap in the construction of the sections that need land and the sections where the surplus land will appear? What are the time-limits for individual stages in the south section of the third development axis at this time? And is your schedule scheduled for a meeting with the Belarusian mayors and the mayor, and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u256	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member, from your oral question, as before in writing, I am aware of the concern for the regulation of two important matters, namely ensuring that European funds are drawn from the existing, emerging cohesion 2007-2013 and the early implementation of the project for the construction of the southern part of the third development axis. I do not want to discuss here whether we are in any kind of delay or not, because until recently this section has actually had no perspective on when it will be built, how it will be built and so on. At the time that I took over this ministry, we started to move things in a certain direction, indicating the possibility of realization, as explained in the written reply already, to transfer competence through the realisation of this part of the project from the highway to Malin, including the tunnel under the Gorjanci, to the competence of Dars, which has certain examples and also capacities and possibilities to finance these matters. In particular, this first section of the New Town is a priority, which is also included in funding from the new financial perspective, where approximately €39 million of financing for the construction of this section is foreseen for this section. As far as the use of this 3.5 million technical assistance from the previous financial perspective is concerned, we have already tried to explain to you in writing that we have found that it will not remain until the beginning of this year. [[…]] And in this year, simply with design activities, if they were to be launched by calls and handing out works, that is, as soon as this was established, simply on the design activities of some significant drawdown of these funds could not even be ensured. Therefore, we have estimated that it will be much more rational to use these funds if we use them for other purposes, as has been said, so to realize the placement in space on these other sections on this part of the third development axis, namely, Metlika and Vinice, and other projects that are in intensive realization and where it is possible to draw these funds. In order to address the problem of design and construction of this section, which is of priority to you, including the tunnel under the Gorjanci, we will, as we say, engage Dars, who will ensure with its resources that this project will run smoothly and as closely as possible. You note these problems, which are manifested by ensuring that these earth masses are levelled. In short, I am counting on Dars to pay very much attention to this matter and coordinate all the work then on designing this first part and on designing the second part. Although it already has a small share in the annual programme for the implementation of these activities in the programme this year, this part is not as significant as the documentation is still being submitted, these projects are being prepared. When the handover is completed, Dars will, I will say, be very active and with plans also in the following year and in the following years, then 2017, 2018, ensure the implementation of this project. All I can mention is that this first section of the New City, from the highway to Revoz or to the Pagans, is that construction would start in 2017. In short, this is also the goal, where activities would then have to be achieved in the construction of the tunnel. I'm counting on Dars to coordinate this as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u258	Violeta Tomić has the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u259	Just because we know that Dars is not eligible for technical assistance, we have provided funds in time for the Roads Directorate so that it can start designing in time and propose the product to Darsa for further implementation. That is why I expect a more binding timetable for follow-up to the southern part of the third development axis. Above all, I feel that it is somehow an underestimating attitude towards the White Land and its inhabitants. Among other things, the Belarusian mayors have been waiting for more than two months, more precisely since 9 March 2015, to meet with you. Symptomatic for this government is that neglect of the White Land extends to other resources. This is why I would like to invite you to a meeting with the people of the White Country with the title From the People's Mouth directly to the Parliament, which will be held in Montenegro on 27 May and the Mayor of Belokran and we, too, from the United Left, will be very pleased to see you there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u260	Let's say that's the question. The word is given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I thank you for inviting me. I also received an invitation to the Vineyard, and I had to reject it because I really didn’t have time at the time, or I would be happy to attend. Once again, I think we are very serious about the activities, that these projects will also be brought to life in the southern part and that this building activity would also come in 2017. However, as far as the use of these funds is concerned, as has been said, Dars would not even be able to use them, but the directorate will be at those sections I mentioned, in short, to Vinica and to Metlika, in the activities of putting them into space, and the rest will also be on other projects that we are carrying out at the Ministry and are intensively in progress, so that the unused resources from this title will not be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u262	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u263	Thank you for the answer, which was more precise this time. The invitation for May 27th remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u264	Now it's repeated. Now I have to give a warning, officially. I'm warning you. It's a warning. As the following questions Mr Uroš Prikl, the same Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petra Gasperšič, ask. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u265	President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! My question will also be somewhat localized. It will be stained Styrian, Mariborian, if you want, because I come from this environment and I am aware of all the deprivities that Maribor has with its wider surroundings. The 2015 Action Plan for Priority Activities of Ministries and Government Services also lists works at Maribor Airport as one of the key activities in the chapter Completion of old perspective projects 2007-2013. The Maribor airport, in connection with the road and rail network of the region, can bring exceptional development opportunities. In the vicinity of the airport, the modern land logistics centre, which is to be created, is expected to open its doors wide to new investments, new investments and, of course, it would be necessary to modernise airport infrastructure. By investing in this infrastructure, the accessibility of the whole Podravska region, but not only the Podravské region, but also the Pomurje regions, Savinja regions, Koroška and, of course, could be listed, both for the economy and, of course, for tourist development, or for the availability of tourist destinations, which are of course not few. Logistically, the location has great advantages, as there is a highway crossing on the fifth and tenth European road corridor in the immediate vicinity of the airport, and a railway link that is a few hundred metres away from the airport would open up. Governance at the airport is thus an opportunity for polycentric development, it represents the potential prosperity of the northeastern region and at the same time, it is my personal opinion, also meaning the cessation of the deprivability of Maribor with its surroundings. Dear Mr. Gaspersich, I ask you: What work will be done at Maribor Airport in 2015 as part of the Action Plan for the Priority Activities of Ministries and Government Services? How much of this is earmarked from the perspective of 2007-2013? And thirdly, if I can add a little more to the question, I don't want to get out of context here: What is the outlook of the Maribor airport in the coming years in the eyes of the Ministry and in your eyes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u266	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u267	Thank you so much for asking me that question. In fact, I also wanted to start an answer with what you finally asked with the perspective and vision of the Maribor airport. In fact, it is not enough to build infrastructure buildings if these facilities do not serve a purpose. But we know what the airport is supposed to do. Aviation activities are to be carried out there. Moreover, only the airport opens up other options, which you also mentioned, in relation to the other important infrastructure that is nearby. But then this is a broader story of how we will be able to secure all these logistics links. In short, the vision itself and the development potentials of the Maribor airport are also recognised at the Ministry. And with the activities we carry out, we will, I'm sure, also somehow manage to bring these potentials to life. Here I am primarily referring to the activities relating to the interviews and the study of the possibility of granting a multi-annual concession for the conduct of an economic public service. I think we're very close to a solution here, which will then make it possible. Likewise, all other activities that, if I say very concretely, will also allow for the extension of the airport path and also the regulation of all other land-book issues that exist there. However, with regard to the activities of the airport itself and those facilities under the existing financial perspective, it can be said that the works that covered the completion of the existing passenger terminal and the construction of the new work and the work related to the preparation of the main airport plan have already been carried out and completed. At present, the implementation of the airport infrastructure at the airport itself, which covers a technical facility, is also being completed. This is the tractor where the firefighters will be installed. Then it's a garage facility. And an object three, with a hangar worth a million and about 500 thousand euros. In the process there is also a public contract for the purchase of equipment for the reception and dispatch of aircraft, passengers and goods at Edward Rusjan Airport in Maribor, estimated the value of this contract is approximately EUR 2 million 200,000. The total value of all investments that have been made and will be completed at this airport this year amounts to approximately €18 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u268	Do you have an extra one? Mr Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u269	Thank you very much. At this point, I am extremely pleased that the country, that the Ministry of the Interior has recognized or acknowledged that it is also hiding in this end of our country, has great potential and that many positive effects on development in the northeastern part of Slovenia, not only Maribor, the surrounding area, but also the whole of Slovenia. Of course, I want these plans that you have with the Maribor airport to come to fruition. Of course, I absolutely agree with this view that the investment itself, that the object itself, is supposed to be one or the other, will not serve itself, of course, but that, of course, it is mathematically necessary, but not enough to do something about it. Believe me, Mr Gasperšič, the Mariborians, and more broadly, we will be quite pleased if a step forward is taken here in this regard. To avoid getting a reminder, of course, I will not invite you to cut the ribbon when this investment is completed, but we will know this in the long term to appreciate both the Mariborians and those who are connected to Maribor in one way or another. Again, thank you very much for that answer. But I also wish, as it were, that words become flesh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u270	But now I will give my word to the Minister to add something, because otherwise I must give you a warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I am also pleased to accept the invitation to open these facilities. I think we are also planning an event to mark the end of this project. In fact, the facilities that were built there and will be completed are also worth looking at and paying attention to the general public, so that we will also properly mark the end of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u272	Now the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak Opa will be overlooked. Excuse me. First, Mr Marko Ferluga will raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. I'm sorry I didn't notice earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I accept your apology. A nice greeting to all present who are still here in our sports arena, I'd say. Greetings to the most popular minister, including the coast. We know, it's like from the Phantozy movie: "Dopo Lunghi anni e anni di trassmissions we sit down a" tunnel Markovac. And this is where our story begins. It sounds like Markovac's tunnel is one of the extraordinary infrastructure acquisitions on the coast, but if it wasn't for that, everything would be fine and fine. This is where questions, problems, and discontents begin. Dissatisfaction of the local population. Why am I saying this? In fact, two questions arise here. One question is whether my coastal local compatriots will be guilty or not, where it will be from and why it would not be. And here is really one big question on the side of the ministry and the government, how this matter will be defined. Another, which is equally important to me, may be even longer in the long term even more than whether they will be guilty and where they will be guilty, but the next thing is the coastal road. Coastal road. Here I have to be honest that all the coastal mayors have shown an extremely large scale, this modern word I will use, the pro-activity that they already have some plans, how and what would happen to this coastal road, of course, if I came into theirs, I will say in their notes, the hands to manage and exploit this potential. In fact, it is 6 kilometres of virgin territory, the coastal territory, which could be mainly for tourism and the economy to develop very well and make an additional tourist offer. Of course, this is probably related to how this can somehow be agreed with both municipalities, both Koper and Isola, and, of course, with the Ministry of Infrastructure, what are the options. In fact, it is also up to you to help with these rescues, in this recategorization of locals into regional roads and to use these roads for some tourist purposes. So I'd like to ask you for these two answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u274	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to your two questions regarding the Markovec tunnel, I will answer, and a similar question has already been raised today, so that in fact it has probably already been answered. I wouldn't dare judge my popularity either, I don't pretend that with these activities that we have to carry out, I'm going to reap a lot of popularity. And the part you said in Italian, I have to say, I didn't understand it, but anyway, I'm going to focus now on the questions. As to whether we have decided to introduce blame or not in the tunnel or in this newly opened section, I would like to clarify that this is not in fact a decision of the Ministry. We actually have nothing to decide here, whether it will be guilty or not, because the legislation in this area is clear. In fact, the legislation says that all the fast roads and motorways operated by the toll manager, namely Dars, must be tolls. And in this sense, we don't actually have any manoeuvre space to discuss here whether a section will be toll or not. I am sorry that I actually have to answer this part of the question in such a dry, formal, bureaucratic way, but these are the facts that we cannot, not in the ministry, not here in the Chamber of Parliament, nor in the mayors of the municipalities. In short, these are the facts that other users of Slovenian motorways had to deal with when we introduced vineyards in 2008. In fact, the same, similar, identical discussions at the time could be heard when the vinjets were introduced on all the highway sections, which were then towed in some way in this open toll system, where we paid it after a mile, not just after a mile, in short, some then used the network for nothing, others paying it dearly. The blames caused us all to pay in a relatively equal amount. As a matter of fact, there is no exception to whether it is a section in Primorskie or a section of the Ljubljana bypass or a section of the Maribor Fast Road, in short, all users of these roads must have wine later on to use these roads. And so in this part of the continuation of the existing fast road, where the vignette is already mandatory, also in this part, which will thus end at the gas station. As regards all the development visions along the coastal road, of course, we also made it very clear at the Ministry and stressed that we actually support these visions and development opportunities, which would open up by releasing the coastal road. The only condition we have in this regard to transfer this road to the management of the local community is that, in exchange for this road to be handed over to the management of local communities, there is an appropriate non-courage, innocent link of a regional character, as a national regional road, which will take place in this case only through Markovac himself, the town of Markovac, which will allow this innocent, non-courage traffic and will also serve in the event of any jail on the fast road itself, in order to disengage this traffic if there is to be a closure of the coastal road because it will serve some other purposes. For some transit freight traffic we anticipate in such cases the possibility of transport across the road via Šmarij and to Dragonjo. In short, these are our options that we have here and put them on the table as an offer, because in order to implement this agreement, it is necessary to reach agreement with both local communities. This delegation of these powers cannot only be carried out by the Ministry without the local communities agreeing. In short, we will make this offer, we have already made it, I have talked about it many times, and we will also shape it in terms of conclusions or amendments to the Road categorisation Regulation. I hope there will be an appropriate agreement to enable [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u276	Mr Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u277	Thank you. I won't be long, I just wanted to tell the minister, "dopo lunghi anni e anni" means we've been waiting a long time for this unfortunate tunnel. It's just that, it was nothing, and I don't mind when I said you were popular on the Coast, and I didn't think that in some negative connotation or anything. That's it. Well, thank you for your answers, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u278	And thank you in advance for the reminder, of course. Okay, now I get to what I made before, and that is that Mrs Erika Deklava will finally be able to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, we have already asked you a question in this mandate about the construction of a facility on the Fat Rtice for people with special needs. We are pleased that the construction will start this year and that, in part, 1.4 million, funding is also provided and the rest is expected to be provided in 2016. I'm asking you: When exactly or when is it planned to start building a home for those with special needs this year? And, of course, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u280	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for asking. I hope that you will no longer have to ask a similar question this year because the construction itself will begin and this long story will be completed, thirteen years, if I say so. On 12 May 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision to include in the current development programme plan 2015–2018 a new project for the new construction of the Debeli Rtič Centre of the coast, the unit CUDV Dolfka Boštjančič, based on the registered project. This was confirmed on 14 May at MFERAC, the redeployment at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and the fact is that, in accordance with Article 184(1) and Article 186(1) of the ZUJF, it is necessary for the Government to agree. As usual, we waited for the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, so we obtained it, so that tomorrow on the competent committee of the Government this approval will be considered and on Thursday in the Government. Once we have the agreement, we expect to put a decision on the initiation of the procurement procedure under way by 5 June 2015 and, presumably, by 31 July 2015, if no audit request is made, the procurement procedure and the selected contractor of the works will be completed. By 15 August 2015 at the latest, the introduction of a selected contractor in the work will be carried out and construction work will begin on the construction project of the new Centre of the Coast of Fat Rtics.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u282	Good. Ms Anja Bah Žibert, Minister of Health of Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is rightly absent, will now ask her a question, which I ask her to say whether she wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Since the Minister isn't here, I'd like a written answer, because I think it'll be faster with time. Given the well-known fact that the Minister is particularly upsetting the public at this time by abolishing emergency medical care, the issue of the children's heart surgery of the Clinic Centre in Ljubljana is therefore not much smaller or even less so as to be a side thing. This is already a very long - term problem, which somehow is not and has not come to a solution. There were a number of bad decisions in this area, a lot of promises to come up with a solution, but somehow there was still. It seems to me that it is important to stress that this is indeed a problem and somehow does not lead to a final solution of the relationship of those responsible, those who are most responsible for it, when parents who have connected to one of the online networks or social networks have stated that this is inappropriate and that such things are not served in such a way. The fact is, the parents were looking for some sort of solution. Finally, Dr. Kenda, director of the Pediatrics Clinic, recently in one of the statements when the parents again highlighted one of the problems, somehow replied that there was no need for discontent in this regard. I don't think we're going to come up with a solution like this, so it would be good, and I hope that somehow I will get the Minister's answer, just to come up with some long-term solution that will be in everyone's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u284	Mr Andrej Chuš will now ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčič, who is absent. So I'm asking if he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me start by saying that I want a written reply mainly because of the time component, because now to wait one month for specific answers, it is not serious given that the limitation deadlines in the case of compensation actions expire in November. I'm asking for an answer as soon as possible. It is good for me to ask the oral question of the floods of the Drava River in 2012 in the National Assembly, namely, the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Home Affairs. I must say that Drava's floods were, in many cases, politically exploited for self-promotion. The floods took place one week before the presidential elections, and a lot of people got there, put a little gloves on their hands, moved the shovel twice, and he already said they did something. But people in the region of Koroška and all the way to Gorišnica and Markovec and against Croatia were left alone, empty-handed. During the night, their lives changed, all that they had produced their whole life, such as housing, houses, and watered through the night — not just basements, but also higher ones. Of course, people were primarily involved in survival. They had to spend their savings and a lot of other things on it. In short, it was a huge humanitarian disaster that caused as much as €373 million in damage in Slovenia. And until today, we've somehow forgotten about it. That's not right. Finally, I asked the Minister for the Environment and Home Affairs how far the prosecution is, how far the compensation has been paid to the victims. It's about 300 families. We found out we're not far away. The analyses carried out showed that Drava floods in 2012 were also responsible for the human factor. I don't want to talk about who and what because I know that people listen to it, but it's a human factor. And in Austria, someone dropped this water against Slovenia. I think that's what I said. Although the Ministry has prepared some analysis, it is of course not indigenous. I have learned that the Republic of Slovenia is negotiating with the Republic of Austria the payment of the compensation incurred in the floods, but only for the damage caused by the public infrastructure. This means that all of these 300 families that have been injured in floods, disadvantaged, have suffered collateral damage, have been abandoned by the state overnight, and I don't think that's right. That is why, of course, I refer the question to the Minister: How will he respect the Constitution? How the State’s Attorney’s Office Will Follow His Needs [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u286	Mr Jan Mahnic will now ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počivavšku, who is excused to be absent, and Dr Petr Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! In this country, we have been hearing for years that road infrastructure is a major problem. In all these years since the crisis, we have somehow ignored road infrastructure by putting out fires in other areas, which can be felt by citizens and citizens on a daily basis when we are driving on roads that are certainly one of the worst in the European Union, at least as much as I have experience, and sometimes I go abroad and see what the situation is there. During this time, we have taken a step further under the government of Borut Pahor to further deteriorate road infrastructure. Part of the funds that came from tolls, registrations and so on have been transferred for the reconstruction of railway infrastructure, which is, of course, unfair, unfair, that those who drive on roads pay for railway infrastructure, on the fact that today you arrive more slowly from Ljubljana up to Jessenic than you did in the time of Austro-Hungarian. In particular, it is a problem for economists. We know that we have closed some bridges, due to poor road links to certain areas in Slovenia, economists are very complaining. Not only those who drive trucks and have such businesses, but also those who do business in such places daily. There is also a particular problem with economic zones, in the country we have areas where there is no adequate road infrastructure, roads are not adequately regulated, but we have economic and industrial zones that employ quite a lot of people. A specific example is the municipality of Jiri, where the industrial zone employs 1,000 people, but who drove there knows about the situation. That is why I am interested in Mr Minister, I know that the problem with the means, as I hear, is that money that will come from economic growth will be invested in anything other than road infrastructure. When you ask the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, they say that the only authority in the public administration that has hands to perform is the only thing that is money. We know that 210, 212 mayors daily ask the Directorate, expose their projects daily, and of course they pronounce themselves, absolutely justified, on the finances. Mr. Minister, as this is also an important topic for the development of the economy, I am interested in: Is it expected that, either at the time of the rebalancing or at the 2016 budget, this will improve, especially in the field of road infrastructure leading to industrial and economic zones? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u288	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Member, thank you for the question as well. In fact, I will be able to answer a question that you have already submitted to me and was very general, even more generally. In the question, you specifically mentioned the Ziri craftsmanship zone, which, unfortunately, I will not be able to tell you what the plans are. As a matter of principle, this is already the case today, I think that on one question from the Member States, he explained what our objective is to ensure that existing infrastructure is properly maintained on a regular basis, as well as investment maintenance of existing infrastructure, and also resources for the construction of new sections of the state road infrastructure. We know that this infrastructure, implemented and built within the framework of Dars, has its own financing story, while what we are building within the framework of state road and rail infrastructure is financed exclusively from budget resources and, of course, from European funds, which have helped us greatly in improving our situation over the years. Of course, I agree that in maintaining the existing infrastructure, things have only gone down in recent years, and that is our goal in the coming year, as I have already mentioned, to try to provide a permanent source in an appropriate amount in the form of an infrastructure fund, which will therefore provide this potential for someone, I will say, even more extensive planning, then prioritisation of these projects. In short, if we know how much funding will be allocated for road and rail infrastructure over the period, say, 5, 6 years, we can make such a reliable timetable for this period, and then we also closely monitor, implement, and also significantly otherwise answer such questions as to what will happen here, what will happen there, if we have a vision of these assets and then some plan of implementation tensely. In short, so much can be answered in general at this point, or I agree, of course, that even in planning and setting priorities, the sections of which we are going to make investments, first of all, have an increasingly important and crucial role to play in the economy, ensuring economic development, and therefore we believe that the maintenance of an existing network, which is crucial, is also essential in order to ensure that, as soon as possible, the financing of this existing network is carried out as smoothly as possible after this existing network of economic flows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u290	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u291	Thank you, Minister, for what a concrete answer. I had already warned you about the industrial zone Todraž in the municipality of Gorenje Vas – Poljane. Last week, though, I took a look at their road infrastructure, which leads to the Jury industrial zone. There are thousands of people working there, and he told me that the main problem is that the road leading to Jiri will now open this year as the bishop's bonds and bonds in the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane are quite burdensome. But the problem is for those trucks, we know, there's a highway to Logatco, and then there's the Jiri-Rovta road, which has been partially restored in recent years. These roads are still 25 kilometers away, but the ambulances are only 5 kilometers away. People don't demand the whole reconstruction, but the five most critical and what's going on? [[…]] When they make arrangements for meetings, when they agree to make new deals, people tell them that up there in the Jura they will not drive, they will not destroy their cars, their fleet. If you want, come to Ljubljana, come to other places in Slovenia, and we will deal there, because we will not drive up there. We have already discussed those three sets of A, B, C, that is to say, if I understand correctly at the time, the first part is the provision of funds for those most urgent projects, the second part is the completion of existing buildings that are not so high-priority, and the third part is the creation of new ones. I know that, with these 200 million, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads is having a hard time doing anything, but I hope and wish that you and the Minister of Economic Affairs will be successful in negotiating funds for the future. If anyone, you have high support here. I hope that we will also reach this breakthrough in the Jury Congregation, to arrange it, then, of course, even to the industrial zone that goes through the old Jury to move the local road now to the country and then that new part there. If the second year were to be given from this category A in order to provide additional funds for the category B to which this matter would also be subject, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u292	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u293	So, again just in principle. We will work, in fact, at the Ministry of Infrastructure we are already preparing material, which we will also provide to the Government, by which we will submit this proposal for the establishment of this infrastructure fund, and under which we will then count on to provide this appropriate permanent source of funding for all these projects. It will then be possible to make a timetable, and accordingly it will be possible to discuss when all these projects will come to order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u294	As a last question, Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone who's still here with us! Ormož Agricultural Association has been bankrupt since August 2014, after the attempt to make a settlement failed. The direct reason for initiating the bankruptcy procedure is, of course, outstanding obligations towards creditors. Indirect and also the real reason for the bankruptcy of Agricultural Cooperation Ormož is the payment non-discipline of their largest business partner P&F Jerusalem Ormož, d.o.o. It is important to understand from the media that the debts of the agricultural cooperative stem mainly from the fact that the said company has never paid the agricultural cooperative in full to the joint vineyards and that the cooperative has at least partially paid the farmers their debts for the grapes delivered and that the grapes supplied to the farmers have been paid in part for their survival. Unpaid debts to the cooperative and to small vineyards are towed from 2012 onwards. However, most of all, the fact that, according to the data available through the application, Jerusalem P&F Supervisor Ormož has received agricultural subsidies on a regular basis since 2011 even though the payment non-discipline to creditors has been generally known and the company has also been blocked several times by all transaction accounts. From January 2011 to today, an agricultural subsidy company received more than EUR 3 million from the country for the purpose of processing grapes, which it does not pay to vineyards. With P&F Jerusalem Ormož is owned by a person on the list of the richest Slovenians. While on the one hand we have great wealth, which is still growing at the expense of state subsidies, on the other hand we have small vineyards, which are more poor because of the company's payment indiscipline from day to day. Many have already begun to squander their vineyards. However, the main culprit for the situation continues to receive state subsidies, including EUR 671 000 849 last October, when KZ Ormož was already in bankruptcy and when many wine growers have already abandoned their trade. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: How can it be that an undertaking that has several years of outstanding obligations to its suppliers and often blocked accounts is recipients of millions of agricultural subsidies? In your opinion, are agricultural subsidies still intended to promote wine-growing or are they intended only to destroy small vineyards? Do you have any advice, advice, or action for ever more poor wine growers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u296	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u297	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor and the honourable Member, for the three questions. If I draw a number from 2007 onwards, the company has received a total of €7.1 million since 2007 until today’s publication by the Jerusalem Ormož Agricultural Markets Agency. I also looked at why they got payments in 2014, if you want, then we can look for other years. I see that in 2014 the biggest payment they received was a measure implemented throughout Slovenia, namely the restructuring and rerouting of vineyards. In practice, it means that 75% of the European Union is here, but it is about restructuring the vineyards – that is, investing in vineyards. However, the second largest amount they received was for the implementation of environmental measures they had apparently implemented. I would also like to say this: what is important to understand today is that, as far as the payment of agricultural subsidies or other payments under the rural development programme or direct payments is concerned, the Agency for Agricultural Markets is obliged to pay the beneficiaries, unless the debtor is in relation to the Agency due to the obligation to repay undue funds, then debt compensation is made. As far as the economic relations themselves are concerned between one economic society, this is what you are mentioning, or another, the agricultural cooperative which is in bankruptcy. This is a business relationship, but what the state has done is that last year we passed a law that allows us to control payment hands for the first time. In fact, until then this was not possible in Slovenia because there was a general payment on payment deadlines, which had been said to be such that the payment period in the country was 60 days, except where the parties agreed otherwise. The food chain is considered to be in an unequal position; the customer is generally much stronger than the seller of any agricultural product. That's why we went into agricultural hands, where checks are taking place at the moment. It is true, however, that there were no special agro deadlines in Slovenia until then, but there were general payment deadlines which had this system error. Otherwise, as far as wine growing is concerned, Slovenian winegrowers can receive three types of support: the first is support for the restructuring of vineyards – it is anyone who wants to, makes a role and invests. The other is support for environmental measures, including environmental action. And as a novelty that will be implemented for the first time this year, payments are per hectare. Otherwise, these payments will not be large, some ten euros, they will gradually increase, and with this we will try to help the eighteen thousand hectares we have in Slovenia, because such an agreement is with the wine sector. You know that the production of wine in Slovenia is somewhere between seventy, sometimes up to ninety million litres and is about the same as the need in Slovenia, with about 10% of the production being exported. This exports are also increasing, and at better prices than Slovenian winemakers in Slovenia, and, on the other hand, imports of cheaper wine are coming to us because some other countries – in particular Macedonia, Moldova – have a significantly lower price for grapes. This is a few times like in Slovenia. At the Ministry we have been supporting Slovenian winegrowers for some time and thus winemakers in such a way that we support their joint performance under the Marla I fell Slovenia in the key markets they have chosen. The three fairs are known: this is Verona in Italy, this is Düsseldorf in Germany and the London Fair. If they're going with the state money, they have to be together. At the same time, we support their strategic performance in five markets, and these are also multiannual programmes. At the Ministry, we think that because we are doing this, Slovenian wine exports are slowly increasing. As far as this is concerned, do we have any special measures for farmers or small vineyards? First of all, this is news. We're introducing direct payments per hectare. Secondly, as far as vineyards are concerned, they will be able to enter a small farm scheme that is much less complex than normal agricultural policy management. And thirdly, we also have startup-supports here as for all other agricultural activities. However, we do not have the same measures as, say, companies that are part of the Ministry of the Economy, because we are implementing measures through the rural development programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u298	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u299	Thank you for your answer. What you mentioned at the outset is debt compensation. This company is a taxpayer and not a proposer, which means that it does not pay contributions to workers. Here's my 15-year-old credit rating report. 5. where it says that after 268 days of Jerusalem’s blockade, Ljutomer, d.o.o., then the daughter’s second company, Jerusalem Ormož, d.o.o., has 135 days of blockade, 7 lawsuits and so on. So I think that with these subsidies, we could fine-tun these blockades and people would be paid. What worries me even more is that these vineyards have not been paid since 2012 and simply cannot live anymore because they also need the resources to sprinkle and collect these grapes. That's why I want to know: What are these agricultural subsidies for? For I was there on Friday, and I saw that the vineyard that worked well, and sold grapes, received no wages, but he that cutteth the vineyard received compensation. It says: Do subsidies promote the cutting of vineyards and the destruction of vineyards? Actually, we should encourage the growers, so please, if you'll just explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u300	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food is responsible. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u301	Perhaps one of the reasons why subsidies or direct payments or environmental measures carried out by individual agricultural holdings cannot be used for other purposes; because this is the dedicated money we receive from the European Union. This money cannot be used for tax debt, this money cannot be used for debt to business entities, because it is a dedicated money which must be spent for a specific purpose. It would probably be different if it were 100% of Slovenian money from the state budget, but it is within what we are paying, it is expected to be 75%, and in some cases 100% of European money. As far as implementation is concerned, it also cuts. This is a measure implemented at the level of the European Union as a whole, including in Slovenia. This is a measure which is coordinated with vine growers and is carried out where for some reason vineyards leave their vineyards and are diverted to another activity. It can be very different and it was an agreement with the Slovenian agricultural sector and Slovenia has just summarised one of the measures available in the European Union. I would also like to say the following. When the state upgrades its actions when it deals with them and when it adopts them – I think we have a pretty good system for taking these measures, and that is to coordinate with NGOs in this area. But our wine-growing partners are three as an association. First association of small vineyards, then medium, family farms and wine cellars. Before we go as a country into a measure, we also align the measures with these associations. In general, it is necessary to say that in Slovenia wine production does not fall. Although we have the whole time question why no excise duty is introduced on wine. Then we're trying to explain it. This is because in Slovenia, which is such a very important wine country, we have a similar position than more or less of all wine countries in the European Union. This is that wine-growing – in the final stage of its work in Slovenia 30 thousand people – is not burdened with excise duties. I hope that such a policy remains to be pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u302	Violeta Tomić has the floor to ask for a procedural discussion on the response to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u303	I would just say that another activity in the middle of vines is, of course, not possible. People leave vineyards. All I want to know is if you can: How do you, when you say that there are mainly European funds, is there no place to examine whether a person is doing business properly or not before receiving these European funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u304	Yeah, there's no more time for questions. That's how I have to give you a reminder. This was also not meant as a general debate [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. There is no need, because we have actually completed this procedural meeting and also in relatively good will. Thus, I thank the President of the Government, ministers and ministers for the answers given, but to all those who have done so this time, I do not thank the others for not being, I do not thank them and remind them that next time, please, they should come, because this has been agreed in advance, otherwise the National Assembly will have to consider any different measures. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 19 May 2015, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
