ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the suspension of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. This is the 2014 report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a debate on the views and conclusions of the Commission and on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this part of the open session, I would like to talk about the Commission's findings on the supervision of security and intelligence services, which are of interest to the general public and where it is the duty of this Parliament to do its utmost to prevent any abuses. What am I talking about? I am talking about the fact that at this point we have a system and a legal basis, because Owl can completely legally listen to innocent citizens. What am I talking about? If Owl wants to listen to an individual for such or other reasons, there are two ways. In the case of a foreign national, the decision shall be signed by the Director of the Owl. In the case of a Slovenian citizen, the President of the Supreme Court shall issue a decision. In view of the past, when Slovenian citizens were also caught listening to foreign citizens, one such case was a very well-known conversation between Mr Sanader and Mr Janša at the time, the system was introduced if Slovenian numbers were caught in the hearings. Nevertheless, the system remained that listening to Slovenian citizens could still be completely legalised. I'll be very specific. For example, they want to eavesdrop on John Novak. The Sova will make a proposal to the Court that the Chief Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, issue a hearing decision. In order for the President of the Supreme Court to do so, this proposal must be explained. In explaining this proposal, however, Owl can refer to a number of things. Our Commission has found that Owl often uses information from secret co-workers who are or are not reliable in explaining such proposals. When we checked whether the President of the Supreme Court verified the credibility of these allegations, on the basis of which he decided to allow wiretaps at all, we found that neither the President of the Supreme Court had any insight into this matter. Now, theoretically, I can say the following. It's practically possible. You know that Owl is directly subordinated to the government, that Owl is directly subordinated to the Prime Minister of the Government, and that the President of the Government is the direct head of Director of the Owl. For example, the current government wants to eavesdrop on me personally. What does he have to do? Nothing. It's very simple. The owl only gets one unnamed undercover associate, a secret source, who reports that, for example, he invents that Matthew Tonin is dealing with weapons. And this information of a secret associate is usually sufficient to explain and that the judge eventually also approves hearings. And to me, Owl can listen completely legally without any restrictions. This has proved to be true in our past controls. However, we have found this in cases where we have seen that individuals have been tapped for several months, but there have been no concrete results, no burdensome facts, and we have wondered why they were then ordered to eavesdrop on an individual. Then we came to this story that the listening grounds are very much on torn floors or very poor information. I am therefore convinced that it is our duty as parliamentarians to amend article 25 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. Because a mere amendment to this Article will allow us at least the Commission to look at the credibility of this information, which makes hearings against an individual begin at all. If we are to defend human rights, then this is a necessary measure to be taken in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you. The proposaler has the advantage, which you probably know. However, given that this part of the meeting has now only begun for the public, I wanted to present only those opinions and findings which are public. I'll read them in order. In the past mandate, the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission has argued that any extremism is unacceptable and unacceptable. It appears in Europe and also in Slovenia. The Commission recommends that this composition of the term of office of the National Assembly continue to monitor that phenomenon together with the competent services. Second conclusion: On the basis of the reports received and the discussions held with the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the ODS, Owls and the police, the Commission has indisputably noted that there are no indications that the events and violent demonstrations of 2012, 2013 were related to the operation of an organised form of extremist groups. It was also false information that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were to train groups in 2011 and 2012 who then participated in violent demonstrations. Next conclusion: The Commission has given considerable attention to the issue of handling the findings of the undercover investigation measures by the authorities in the process. The Commission recalls the inconsistent compliance with Articles 153 and 154 of the CAP. The abuse of investigative measures largely opens the door to arbitrary and arbitrary behaviour of the repressive authority. This is also based on the conclusions of the ECHR. The Commission points out to the National Assembly and the Government that the competent authorities of prosecution, investigation and court have to comply with the statutory deadlines for proceeding with the findings of the disguised investigation measures. Previous and subsequent judicial review is not sufficient. Abuse is often detected only in the highest court, this is the Supreme Court, after several years of legal proceedings. Fourth conclusion: The Commission points out that, in individual cases, there is only doubt that the authorities of the investigation and prosecution will determine the offence of which there is a suspicion, a statement, a hint, but they have no basis for reasonable suspicion that the offence has been committed. However, it is easy to obtain an order to carry out covert investigation measures under Article 150 of the CAP and only with those measures will evidence be collected. The same findings are reflected in the house investigation orders. There are cases where the court issues a house order and then the investigating authorities are looking for evidence to confirm the existence of a suspicion of a criminal offence for which the house investigation is disproportionate. When monitoring the measures, the Commission hit on the KPC's operating procedures. The exchange of evidence required by the KPK in some cases from the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, such as the findings of the covert investigation measures, evidence from house investigations, could endanger the entire criminal investigation, as the police also pointed out. On the other hand, the Commission points out that such a person, a non-equitable person, is against law enforcement authorities and is in an unequal position in his defence, as the PSC has already been accused, accused and convicted by a principled opinion based on information contained in the pre-trial procedure in the public eye. The Commission recommends the establishment of a new mandate for the National Assembly to take an active initiative to adopt the missing legislation in the field of electronic communications. ZECOM provides that operators must adopt a safety plan in case of operation in exceptional circumstances. The Commission should call on operators to draw up, in cooperation with the competent institutions, an information technology directorate as soon as possible, a security plan including 112 and 113. All of this is noted and the views of the Commission are adopted. She accepted them unanimously. While most still refer to work in the previous composition, it is necessary to stress once again that the Commission has started its current term of office and that the report relates to 2014 only on 23 December 2014. After that, we immediately started our work, even successfully, but this is already a matter of the next report. On the conclusions, however, the National Assembly will only decide to familiarise itself with the report and to urge the Government, together with the competent ministry and services, to implement as soon as possible the efforts and views and opinions I have just presented. It is a principle of the division of power in which we can only propose or recommend to the government, but we cannot direct it or dictate what it should do in the future. What I would specifically point out in the open is that it is a matter of security, that it is a matter of good that we do not normally realize, as well as health, until the moment we lose it, and that the time in which we live, as far as it is concerned, is very difficult. On the one hand, there are cyber threats, which we will pay due attention to and, on the other hand, physical, unfortunately. The situation in the Middle East, particularly the phenomenon of the Islamic State with extremism, by boasting themselves that they are sending refugees to Europe with their warriors, and after they have broken militaryly, the returnees of the European Union will literally flood, each of which poses a great danger to themselves, let alone all of them in an organised network. This means that this poses an important security challenge for all services that need to carry out their work properly and as effectively as possible, including monitoring. This is the question facing all democracy: who controls the overseers. That's our job.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer. Mr. Dolinšek, please. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Benedict Kopmayer, please. Let's get the mags ready. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Much has been said in a closed session. So at this point I can only say that in the Desus Group we will support the Commission's proposed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič. Dr. Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much. We will also support the proposed conclusions in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Parties [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Because I'm out of time, that's all. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž German ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, Secretary of State! I will support these conclusions myself and will also, as a member of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, take the initiative to make them happen. However, it must now be pointed out that, in the face of such a highly modified geopolitical situation as we now have in the world, I am calling on the ruling coalition to devote more financial resources to security, more financial resources to the functioning of security and intelligence services in the next year's budget. In this report we have received, we have had quite a few concrete things. Among other things, it is particularly important that the Commission has found that the documentary broadcast by national television was demanded by the Commission in the sense that the military trained extremists, which of course was not true. However, the issue of information leakage is also important. I hope that things have either been so consolidated in the Owl, or they will be that, through various journalists, whistleblowers and other matters, the information is leaking out, and then the Commission gets information like that or otherwise from the media. It will also be important to raise the question of what happens to the hearing and other evidence obtained under specific methods of data collection. Is this evidence then stored or destroyed as it should? How's that? Either the person who has been tapped or supervised or then informed that he has been in such procedures or not informed of the decision or, above all, what are the criteria for changing the law, that we are more specific than leaving our hands open. Of course, the Commission will monitor developments in relation to all three extremisms. We will focus in particular on Islamic radicalism and on the activities of the Russian Federation. We know that Russian President Vladimir Putin is targeting certain European countries in order to weaken the European Union, with a view to weakening the NATO link that we are members of. I fear that Slovenia, according to what we have seen in the last year, is also one of these targets. Of course, there is a need to step up or that there is an even more active anti-intelligence activity in this place, as the European Union sees an increase in the number of Russian agents appearing in different institutions, and I believe that Slovenia is also not immune to this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much. A lot has been said in a closed session. I think the most important emphasis was there. I would only like to point out in the light of privatisation, as it has been in the closed part of the session, that we do not neglect the security aspect of the sale of Telekom. We can't do that in the light of privatisation. I agree with my fellow predecessor, we hope that the government will be aware of the importance of the security aspect and will devote more resources to it in future, because in such circumstances the prevention is better than the Kurativa. As finances are drastically reduced as far as this area is concerned, there is a non-renewal of personnel, a non-renewal of technological devices, less training and education, which certainly is not good for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. We will not support this decision in our parliamentary group. I cannot support it in particular because it refers to certain findings and positions that do not. Here, however, I would focus only on the second statement or position in which the Commission indisputably notes that there are no indications that the 2012 and 2013 events and violent demonstrations involved the functioning of an organised form of extremist groups. I would point out, however, that during the previous mandate, a parliamentary inquiry was also made into the functioning and activities of extremist groups in the above-mentioned demonstrations. And the Commission of Inquiry noted in its interim report that all intelligence and security authorities have identified the existence of extremist groups in Slovenia, which, however, pose a lower level of risk to national security, but the professional public has found that existing legislation does not allow for preventive control and effective action against their functioning, and should therefore consider interference with existing legislation. Members of the new term of office probably don't know if you haven't looked at it in the archives of the National Assembly, from the material obtained, and especially from the police, that this commission of inquiry has also formed a circle of witnesses belonging to our most active extremist groups. However, due to the end of Parliament's term of office, she was unable to hold hearings and carry out her work. Therefore, members of these groups were clearly present at the protests. This is from police records. This then completely detracts from the Commission’s finding or position on the supervision of intelligence and security services. As I said, this material is available in the archives of the National Assembly. I would call on the ruling coalition, as well as some other Members, to consider continuing the work of this commission of inquiry in this mandate, and to come to the bottom of these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u16	In view of what has now been said, of course, two must be separated. One is the professional work of supervision and the findings based on reports and credible information provided by individual departments and ministries. Another is a political one or, if you want, a political work by some investigator. And what is written in the conclusions, which, by the way, were completely unanimously confirmed on our committee, is a matter of credible information. The fact is, extensive investigations into extremist groups have been carried out if you want. How this can be produced is an excellent case with this investigator. In fact, there are three extremists: left, right, and religious extremism, or in the last period, that is what the Muslim extremism facing today is. Under the influence of policy when policies come in between, the following happens to be followed by right-wing extremism by so many specific methods and means that even Branko Masles, President of the Supreme Court, can begin to reject such claims as unfounded, even though we all know that he is not exactly an SDS fan or a right. And it's true the other way around. But it went so far that he also felt that it was enough and too much and that the requirements for further bugging and widening of the wiretap circle began to be rejected. On the other hand, for extreme leftists, you will not believe, not one measure has been taken, nor have they been investigated at all. So much for this search for extremists. This is no longer called the investigation of extremism, but the grave abuse of institutions and secret services for political accounting, which, of course, is not the first. We know that in the past we have witnessed the instigation of extremists in the Slovenian Army. It turned out to be completely unreal. Now, I ask you, Mr Möderndorfer, who through you are shouting rudely and disturbing this meeting, who will return to those soldiers in that unit and to Slovenia as a whole country its reputation and lost reputation abroad, as well as the security they deserve for their responsible work they are doing. You certainly don't. You are only interested in political profit over the interests of your own country, over the interests of security, nothing else matters. It's about power. And this is not the first time, for I would like to recall that one of the unannounced controls in the past has discovered on one of the services documentation on how the SDS should even train some Muslim extremists, in short, the Kosovo Liberation Army, and it has also proved to be a cruel instigation. It's also an abuse of classified and intelligence services. Exactly what it should never come to. And if by such reasoning you reject the proposed conclusions, once again, they were adopted unanimously, if you want to make sure what they were based on, there are reports, there are reports, there are reports to check it all over again, if you want, then something really wrong with you. I can't say otherwise. Two things are crucial when it comes to secret and intelligence. That they should strictly follow the law, so that there is no abuse, and that they are the same standards for all. All extremists must be subject to control, all extremists, if they seek violence, must be adequately controlled, but all must be subject to the same criteria. Don't say that one thing isn't, but another thing to deal with indefinitely, because it happens to suit someone politically, and then it's the abuse of institutions and secret services, as well as of the investigators I've talked about before. [[..]] And that, of course, should never have happened in a normal country. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u17	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, if [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please let Branko Grims speak to the end. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u18	Dear Mr Möderndorfer, your colleague was just talking about the investigator, and he therefore explained why he would not vote in favour of the conclusions that we have proposed. It is only views and recommendations and I am therefore answering this question. If abuse occurs, such a country is no longer democratic. But there's another element. We discussed earlier that there are real threats in Slovenia. Among them is certainly at the moment, not only in Slovenia, because this is the European problem, the most up-to-date extreme Muslim extremism, which represents what the English Clear and Present Danger say – here is the present danger that no one can deny. And if jobs deal with nonsense, then they don't have time to deal with these things that are actually their task. Their task is to act effectively, within the framework of the Constitution and the law, and to ensure security for everyone and everyone, every resident, every citizen, all in the same way. This is the job of these services. Our task is to help them do so, and this is also forgotten, to help them by providing them with the means, conditions, and the legal framework to do so smoothly, but at the same time to control them, that no one, nor you, can abuse them anymore. No one else, either. Because the abuse, in my opinion, is also in that some secret services have been done as Swiss cheese to leak information on all sides. I used to talk about the reputation of the state, how important it is. This is also important for the safety of people, people of God! If one service comes to a bad reputation, loses its reputation or the country as a whole, as it has already done in Slovenia, then the West or the services with which we work will simply detain the information tent, it will filter out little, which information it can give us, which does not threaten its people or its security. Which means we're actually jeopardizing ourselves. Therefore, it is so important that the same laws apply equally to all that the same criteria exist and apply and that everything works and is monitored within the framework of the Constitution and the law. This monitoring must be continuous and effective. In my opinion, however, those conclusions that we adopt unanimously, which no one can deny, are based on reliable information from the services, on their materials, verified and then further discussed. Once we ensure this in all cases and without one exception, then Slovenia will be able to say that it is a democratic country and, believe me, then it will also improve the security of all of us, because it will enhance Slovenia's reputation in the world, the door will open up to it, including access to certain information that it may not have at all now, or is so filtered and limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by government representatives if they want. Here you are, Mrs. Katich, Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u20	Nice hello to you all again. I answered certain questions earlier in the closed session. In fact, I would like to thank you only for your support for this behaviour, that there is a need for greater attention to be given to security and, above all, that more resources, both human, financial and material, must be allocated to this area. Once we continue to adopt budgets for the coming period, I recommend cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thanks again for saying that. In the end, I would just tell those who couldn't keep up with us all the time that this report relates to last year. I am sure that the consideration of this year's report will be much more lively and boisterous, given that we have already been very effective this year. At the end of the day, however, we can only ensure and I am firmly convinced that I am speaking on behalf of all the members of the Commission, that we will do our work to the best of our ability in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. If you would also like a proposaler and a representative of the government, please sign up with a raise. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u24	Good. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u25	In the past years, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services has dealt with a variety of topics in particular in 2014. Among other things, there is extremism, which today is much talk and dissatisfaction and similar things. An investigative commission on extremist groups was also set up. I have been a member both of this investigation and of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services. I don't think we understand each other. We're talking about the same things. I'll be very specific. And the investigator and our commission have found that in Slovenia there are groups and elements of individual extremist groups, so right-wing, if you will, left-wing and religious. This is undeniably demonstrated that such extremist groups exist. But the question was something else, and this was correctly said by Comrade Grims, whether members of the Slovenian Army were involved with these extremist groups. Our Commission, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, has dealt with this subject in great detail and has concluded that members of Slovenian intelligence services have not cooperated or were not members of these extremist groups. However, with those who expressed any extremist views, the Department of Defence’s Security Intelligence Service held talks and certain were dismissed, with some problems settled. I think this is about overheating things that are perfectly clear. It was also found that certain things appeared in the media that Slovenian soldiers were to train extremists at the base in Skril. This, too, has been clearly demonstrated that it does not. These are the facts. But that there are certain extremist groups, yes. And I'm going to start with religious or Islamist extremist groups. The result of their operations in Slovenia is also that several representatives went to the battlefields in Syria. These things have also been made public and established. Individuals who have been presented in public do not deny it either. But to go there, there is a group, there is a special group that organizes everything necessary so that an individual can come from Slovenia to Syria and join the special units of the extreme militias there. And now the task of us legislators and parliamentarians is to adopt what defence mechanisms we will adopt to deal appropriately with these extremists when they return from the Syrian fighting. I think that this is practically not a topic in Slovenia, it is not a debate that we would discuss extensively, while elsewhere in Europe this problem is very intensely dealt with. Particularly in France, where thousands of their citizens have gone to Syria, including in Britain and Germany, and talk about what changes to the law and penal code will make them able to effectively prevent such threats. But we don't have the darkness, and we don't deal with these things anymore or less. It is, however, a fact that some of our citizens will return. The question is how will they be radicalised, whether they will continue their activities. But what I think is crucial and most important, where we are actually the most threatened, is Kosovo. You know that we have a larger group of Slovenian soldiers there, and that, especially from the territory of Kosovo and Bosnia and Southern Balkans, hundreds of people have gone to fight in Syria. When these people start coming back intensively, the problem will be particularly because the leaders of the Islamic State, although they say we should not use this term anymore, but we must use the term Daish not to offend Muslims, call on these members to act against the occupying and foreign forces when they return to their homeland. This is, in some ways, a clear indication of the need to act against KFOR in Kosovo. And this is also the content that this commission must deal with, and also the country, to ensure security for our soldiers in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. No amendments to the proposal were tabled. The national assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on participation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the text of the amendment to the Law on cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, which has been in force since June 2013, at its regular meeting on 5 March this year. The proposed amendment implements the European Parliament and Council Directive of December 2011 on a European protection order. The aim of this Directive and the resulting novelty is to ensure that within the European Union, a safeguard measure against contact and proximity to certain individuals or natural persons in one Member State may be maintained and applied in another Member State if a protected person moves there or stays there. The main purpose and the basis of these proposed amendments is to protect the protected person from endangering or criminalizing other persons who may be at risk either of life, of the body, of mental, of physical integrity and of the dignity of individuals. In the Republic of Slovenia, these measures are specifically designed and regulated by the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Police Responsibilities and Powers and, procedurally, the law governing the prevention of domestic violence. Here, in particular, I am referring to the prohibition of access to a particular area or proximity to a particular person, the prohibition and restriction of contacts, either by telephone, by e-mail and the like. In addition to the protected person, such protective measures may also be taken by an individual who is related to a protected person. Who are these people, but in more detail defines the law governing the prevention of domestic violence. The proposed amendment is not systemic, because it does not interfere with the concept of the law in force, but because of the transposition of the directive only by supplementing the chapter relating to recognition, enforcement and the issuance of such orders, it essentially allows and implements this Directive into our internal legal order. It is therefore essentially more about implementation or novelty, which is of its own nature technical content or nature. Given the current application of these measures under the current rules in the Republic of Slovenia, the precondition for the application of this measure under the Directive is, of course, a preliminary existence of such a measure under internal law, it is not to be expected that such measures on the protection of these persons in the international environment would be used very often, but given that these practices are not yet, with certainty and exactly this cannot be predicted. However, it is highly likely that such measures with international elements in the future after the enactment of this law, if adopted, will not be much. Once again, I would like to thank the Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, with its comments and warnings, contributed significantly to a better text of the proposed novel. Their comments have, of course, resulted in the text before you through amendments with which the Government fully agrees and fully supports them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you, Chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The Justice Committee is at its 8th session. 5. 2015 as a parent working body was considered by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 6. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the applicant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Darko Stare, stated in a supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law transposes Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on a European protection order, without prejudice to the basic provisions of the current law. The proposed amendments provide additional protection for the victims of certain criminal offences in the event that special protection measures have already been taken under domestic law and can also be enjoyed in the event of movement or stay in other Member States of the European Union. Ms Maček Gustin, representative of the Law and Law Service, said that all comments from their written legal opinion were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The representative of the Council of Justice, Janez Vlaj, said that the Council of Justice supported that the applicant had already taken into account most of the reasoned comments made by the authorities which would apply it at the stage of its creation. However, Deputy Director General Tatjana Bobnar said that the police and the Ministry of the Interior welcomed the proposed novel, which was an upgrade to the system's regime for the protection of victims of crime with elements of violence. In view of this, an amendment to Article 60 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police regulating the prohibition of approximation is also being prepared. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted, without discussion, the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 4 and 5 and 6 and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted and adopted all the articles of law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Law on Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union that we are considering today are linked to the implementation of the European Directive in our legal order. The content of the amendments concerns procedures for mutual recognition of decisions of the Member States of the European Union relating to protective measures for victims of violence in criminal and civil matters. The main objective pursued is the effective protection of the victim and of her family members, regardless of which Member State of the European Union the victim will be in. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats We support the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, as it brings solutions in our opinion that contribute to the effective protection of victims of violence. On this occasion, however, let us draw attention to the inadequacy of the legal solutions that we have in our domestic legislation regarding the protection of victims under the law on the prevention of domestic violence and to which I have warned the competent minister myself, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and the Minister for the Interior with an oral question. In doing so, I refer mainly to inadequate legal conditions for the expression and duration of the measure prohibiting the approximation of the victim or the place where the victim lives or is located. Under the conditions for a regulation of this measure, a significantly higher weight and impact on the issue of this measure should be given to the victim and his assessment of the level of its threat. The victim knows the most about the circumstances of the violence and, of course, the perpetrator. In this respect, we stress that the prohibition of approaching a particular place or person for a preventive measure and its expression does not harm the perpetrator, especially if the victim has withdrawn from the common residence. In addition, the maximum possible time limit for the expression of such a measure, which may last for a maximum period of one year under the applicable legislation, is inadequate. We do know, however, that judicial proceedings are significantly longer than one year, both civil and criminal, when a legal sanction is imposed on the perpetrator. The victim of violence is thus left to herself and her ingenuity for protection against violence after one year. Such solutions are truly unacceptable, especially in the face of the social violence that has been identified in a recent study. More than 50% of women over the age of 15 have already experienced one form of domestic violence. In particular, we stress the need to protect children, who, while duly recognised by law the status of the victim of domestic violence if violence is committed against him and even if they are only present in the exercise of violence against another family member. However, it is problematic to fail to exercise the legal rights that children as victims of violence are subject to in practice. Let me therefore take this opportunity to call on the two ministers responsible for adopting the legal basis for measures to prevent domestic violence, to prepare appropriate solutions to effectively protect victims from violence as soon as possible while ensuring the implementation of the legislation adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mag. Aleksander Kavčič will be a representative of the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Government Dear colleagues and colleagues, All those who accompany today's meeting! By means of a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States which we are adopting today, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 is being implemented in the Slovenian legal order. 12. 2011 on a European protection provision. This is more or less a technical transposition of the said Directive and thus is without prejudice to the systemic concept of the existing law. The law already in force since September 2013 is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and other court decisions, which forms the basis of mutual trust in judicial systems between Member States and thus improved cooperation between competent authorities and consequently increased protection of individual rights. In accordance with this principle, the authorities in the Republic of Slovenia shall enforce the decisions of the competent authorities of other EU Member States and shall, when deciding whether or not the instruments submitted are appropriate and whether other legal conditions are met, as judicial decisions are equally recognised and enforced throughout the European Union, irrespective of the place and the decision to be issued. The main objective of the bill or directive is to protect, within the framework of the EU, an area of a single area of freedom, security and justice and where the right of citizens to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, the protection of a natural person who is provided in one Member State shall be maintained and continued in any other Member State to which the person has moved or has already moved or is already staying there. This protection shall be effectively ensured by the issuing of an order by an authority which is not necessarily a criminal court. Thus, the State shall adopt a safeguard measure and issue a European protection order whereby the State of enforcement may order, in accordance with its national law, criminal, administrative or civil measures for the continued protection of the protected person. Above all, it is a matter of protecting a person from a crime that can endanger his or her life, physical or mental integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual inviolability. In particular, in the Republic of Slovenia a safeguard measure is taken into account against approaching a specific place or person under the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the duties and powers of the police. According to statistics, by 2013, the number of measures taken to prohibit the approximation increased by 3.6% and, at the same time, reduced the number of violations under the Domestic Violence Prevention Act by 4.7%, indicating an effective correlation between the higher number of measures imposed and the smaller number of cases of domestic violence. In addition to the already mentioned principle of mutual recognition, the principles of effective aid, since the competent authorities in the Republic of Slovenia are obliged to act in such a way that the purpose of cooperation with another Member State is achieved to the greatest extent possible and the principles of the speed of the procedure by which cooperation in criminal matters must take place as a matter of priority and speed, a new chapter of the proposal for a law regulating the recognition and enforcement of European protection orders should also be mentioned. It also provides for the issuance of European protection orders by the courts of the Republic of Slovenia. In our case, the competent district courts after permanent or temporary residence are protected for the issue and recognition of the European Protection Regulation. The enforcement of the European protection order is the responsibility of the police. With regard to the recognition of European protection orders from other countries by Slovenian courts, Slovenian courts have a discretion to choose and issue a safeguard measure which they consider to be similar to that issued by the issuing authority in the country of issue and which is most suitable for the provision of continuous protection of the person. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the adoption of this law and the implementation of this Directive contribute to a more simplified, faster and effective cooperation of authorities between Member States, harmonisation in the field of criminal law, while respecting human rights and ensuring [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Guarantees in criminal proceedings offer an even greater continuity of protected persons, and we will therefore also support this proposal. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The bill we have on the agenda probably does not require any big words. Maybe I'll just explain what the president said, too, that we didn't participate in the work of the committee. We did not cooperate simply because we believe that the Attorney General should be present, who would explain or deal most with the matter, but he was not. Mr Fischer, the Attorney-General, is systematically boycotting the work of the Justice Committee, where he could participate. Of course, the technical law is not problematic. It points out, however, that Slovenia is late for the adoption of this law. As I recall, the deadline has already expired in February for the implementation of this Directive. As for our support, of course, we will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, chairman. And a nice greeting to the Secretary of State. Dear Members and Members! The law on cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States was adopted two years ago. We have before us a proposal for a first novel, namely a directive on a European protection order is being transposed into our legal order. This Directive lays down measures designed in particular to protect a person from the crime of another person who may in any way endanger the life or physical or mental integrity, sexual integrity and the dignity and personal freedom of that person. The purpose of this regime is also to prevent new crimes or to reduce the consequences of previous crimes. The amendment thus adds a new chapter to the current law governing the recognition and enforcement of European protection orders and also provides for the issuance of European protection orders by the courts of the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of this Directive is to ensure that the protection of natural persons provided in one Member State is maintained and continued in the common area where that person travels to any other European Union country. The individual country may, however, decide to impose criminal, civil or administrative safeguards on the basis of a directive. This is specifically the case in our country for the protection of the prohibition of access to a particular place or person under the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and the Law on Criminal Procedure. According to the annual police reports, the number of such measures has been around a thousand cases per year. Statistics show that the measure is effective as it detects a certain causal link between the increased number of measures imposed to prohibit approximation on one side and the reduction of domestic violence on the other. In practice, however, a large number of requests under this Act are not expected, since in cases of safeguard measures, the approximation is rarely prohibited as an international element when a protected person is moved or located in another Member State of the European Union. In practice, there are most such cases in the field of domestic violence, and such claims are likely to be expected mainly in border areas. Let me also recall that the proposal for an amendment in the context of professional coordination received the comments of interested institutions and also took them into account and incorporated them into the law. Thus, the observations of the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia were taken into account. They also support the law in the State Prosecutor's Council and in the Council of Justice. The proposal is also supported by the police and the Ministry of the Interior, as they believe it is a matter of upgrading the system's regime for the protection of victims of crime with elements of violence. The next amendment to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police is also expected to be amended by the 60th section of this Act, which speaks of the prohibition of approximation. All the comments made by Members and Members of the coalition were also taken into account. In view of the fact that this novel represents a step forward in the protection of victims of crime, honourable Members and Members, we will, of course, support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you, President, for your word. Let me point out in the introduction that both Members and Members of the Group will support the proposal for a new law regulating cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. It is a matter of transposing European Directive 2011/99 into the Slovenian legal order, without prejudice to the fundamental provisions or principles of cooperation in criminal matters between the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia and the other members of the European Union. In addition, the application of this law and other rules of law is also defined. Thus, the provisions of the Law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union do not apply to matters otherwise regulated in the legal acts of the European Union directly applicable in international treaties between the Member States of the European Union. It is clear from the proposed amendment itself that cooperation in criminal matters must take place as a matter of priority and quickly as possible. A written record must be kept which must be transmitted in such a way as to ensure security in the transmission of personal data and enable the executing judicial authority to verify the veracity of the consignor and the data. The costs incurred in the implementation of the provisions of this Act in the Republic of Slovenia shall be borne by the state authorities and public authorities responsible for the conduct of procedures and the enforcement of measures under the law of the Republic of Slovenia. The domestic courts shall have a designated area, fields of discretion or, on the basis of a European protection order, issue such a protective measure, which is most similar to that issued by the authority in the issuing State, and shall provide adequate protection to the victim within a short period of time. As said by a representative of the Ministry of Justice on the labour force, the proposed amendments provide additional protection for the victims of certain crimes where, under domestic law, special protective measures are already being taken and can also be enjoyed in the event of movement or stay in other Member States of the European Union, which means, of course, that the victims can move around the European Union and thus enjoy protection. It is not to be overlooked, however, that certain issues in the proposal for a law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union are not specifically regulated, it is appropriate to apply the provisions of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and the Law on Offences. It is clear from the material that professional coordination has been carried out, that comments and proposals have been taken into account to a greater extent. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we have, with the support of the amendment, helped to correct the proposed text accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the restriction of the consumption of alcohol after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Jani Möderndorfer. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Tomaž Gantar, to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Health Committee shall meet at its 4th meeting, on 6. 5. Mr Jani Möderndorfer presented the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Alcohol to the National Assembly for Treatment and Enactment in Short Procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 25th session. 4. He decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. As a material published on the website of the National Assembly, the Committee had before it a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and an opinion of the State Council, the Commission for Social Protection, Work, Health and Disabled Persons. Representatives of institutions in the field of health were also invited to examine the draft law by reference to the meeting in addition to the proposer, the Legal and Legal Service, the Government and the State Council. After the meeting, representatives of sports organisations and representatives of civil society were subsequently informed of the reference. The amendments of the ZaAB Group were tabled within a time limit. The introductory supplementary explanation was given by the motioner Jana Möderndorfer and presented the main objective and purpose of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summarized their written opinion and explained the reservations to the amendment proposal, which were not fully overturned by the proposed amendments. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, and stressed that the Government does not support the bill. The proposed change after many years would bring alcohol back to sports venues, which would also be a big step back at the symbolic level. I would also mention a bad message to all the people of Slovenia that the adopted and established rules are withdrawing, thus returning to the field of alcohol policy a big step further. The opinion of the Council of State, the Commission for Social Protection, Labour and Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Commission Vice-President Tomaž Horvat. The Commission has considered the proposed amendments to the law to be inappropriate interference with the legal measure which has so far proved to be good. In the broad and controversial debate in which both members of the Committee and the invited members participated, different views and opinions were expressed as to the proposed amendments to the law, as well as data on alcohol consumption and consumption between Slovenians and comparative data with other countries. The bill was therefore opposed by representatives of professional medical organisations and representatives of NGOs. They agreed that pouring alcoholic beverages at sports events would destigmate alcohol. Proponents of the bill drew attention to the fact that sports clubs in Slovenia are in a very poor financial situation due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, and the proposed amendment would allow for additional income created by the sports club, not by guest bars nearby. The amount of alcohol consumed at sports events would not be increased by the adoption of the proposal. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision under Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Alcohol is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Jani Möderndorfer to present his views on the proposal of his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u43	Hello! The debate was certainly not broad. In particular, not on a committee where no representative of a non-governmental organisation has been invited, so it has been prevented mainly by athletes, those who have actually been touched by the topic, from saying where this debate could take place. What is more important than that is that we have not come to the amendments, nor to the proposals, because with the procedural conclusion of someone who has not included a single letter, not a word, has not been included in the debate, the debate has in fact been suspended and it has been found, after their interpretation, that the debate has shown that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We, as proponents, regret that it has come this way, in fact a legitimate, legal way under the rules of procedure, but a very undemocratic way of discussing it. More. It has been achieved that we cannot hold a serious debate in this Chamber on this subject, for which the Committee and those protagonists who speak of the message value of what it would be will achieve only that the brutal matter is terminated and cut. I have to say, not that we haven't been heard or even heard, but we have actually been ignored by the arguments we've been making. And that's the essential difference. Ignored to this point, that you have made it clear to the end that for athletes with whom everyone likes to paint, boast, go to various events, events, in fact, they are not prepared to do anything. There is no tax relief, no relief for those who help this sport, never, ever, anywhere. More. It was necessary to take a valuable message, of course, by one measure which in 13 years did not give any evidence and argument that it was an excusable measure. More. They claimed that this was a coherent measure in general of the other measures. Don't make any mistake. The law adopted in 2003 on the proposal of the then Minister Kebra gave a lot of positive results, but in this case none. More. The police have not even kept any records since it is more than clear that alcohol does not work and does not stimulate riots in the sports field itself. But we have given one other message to everyone: citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, you can drink on fire fighting parties, you can drink with the president of the country, you can go to weddings, you can go to funerals, wherever you want, to any event, to music, concert, serious, such and otherwise, and you will be able to judge everywhere whether you can drink a glass or two. At a sports event, the mind of Slovenians and Slovenk cancels. That's what the state estimates. And at this event, Slovenians and Slovenians must be banned. Even more so — that this will be a bad message for the children. Please! On the firehouse, which is a family event where fathers, mothers, sons, aunts, grandparents, and I don't know who else, they can drink until they pass out. More. They fight because it's folklore because it's a custom because it's expected on a fire party. At the sports event, we allow all the innkeepers around the hall, around the sports event, to serve money at the expense of alcohol. Alcohol does not drink at all any less, just so that those who are really responsible for this event and who actually have less money each year do not get it. The transfer of Slovenians and Slovenes, I will not hear anything, I will not see anything, I will speak according to the message value, has come to an extreme limit. You've mobilized all the sports organisations, so don't think that this debate went off the agenda. Soon we'll be in touch again, but this is the way with those you've silenced for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for amendments to the Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption with the aim of increasing funding for sports organisations. This would mean an additional step back after 17 years and a very bad message to all young people. The Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons does not support amendments to this Act. The draft law in the framework of the National Assembly was also addressed by the Health Committee, which, on the basis of a broad debate, decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also agrees. The ban on the sale and supply of alcohol at sports events is among the restrictions on access to alcohol recommended by the World Health Organisation as proven effective. At the same time, it contributes to the realization of the right of all people, especially young people and children, to live in an environment that is as secure as possible from the negative consequences of alcohol consumption. Children themselves are not aware of the risks that alcohol can pose. Sports events are a place visited, of course, by all, from the youngest to the oldest, where we witness that alcohol can also lead to violence, as many cases have already shown at home and abroad. Therefore, the re-authorisation of the sale and supply of alcohol at sports events would contribute to increasing the risk and harmful use of alcohol among the inhabitants of Slovenia and would lead to an increase in health, social and economic consequences, which does not outweigh the potential benefits of increasing financing for sports organisations, as stated by the applicant. To illustrate, some information may be available. The inhabitants of Slovenia regrettably, by consuming 10 to 13 litres of pure alcohol per capita per year, we are now well above the limit of five litres and are in an envious fourth place after drinking alcohol from above down in the European Union. The mortality due to cirrhosis of the liver was also classified by Slovenia among the Member States right under the 4th place in 2010. Every 10 inhabitants, which means that about 120 000 inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia drink at risk. Every day, for reasons that we attribute exclusively to alcohol, 10 people are admitted to a hospital. Every year, at least 725 people die from accidents and other harmful effects of alcohol. Alcohol is also the most common direct and direct cause of death in young people between 15 and 29 years of age, often abetting death and injury due to accidents, violence and suicide. In the last 15 years, 48 young people under the age of 19 died of alcohol poisoning in Slovenia. So it is the deaths of young people who are also tragic because they could easily be avoided. The estimated costs associated with alcohol consumption in Slovenia amounted to EUR 242 million in 2011. By comparison, if we look at how much the state budget collects money from excise duties on alcoholic beverages, that was €92 million. We see there's a big gap. If all those indirect costs were added to reduce productivity, the mental suffering of loved ones and, above all, of children, these costs would be significantly higher. The existence or increase of sport organisations must not depend on the promotion of the sale of harmful products to health. Finally, I will not be told as Minister of Health that I do not support physical activity and sport, to mention that the Government has adopted a resolution on nutrition and physical activity for health, which we have prepared right at the Ministry, and where the foundations and conditions for the active and physical activity of all of us, especially young and young people, are being laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption was adopted in 2003 with the aim of limiting its wider accessibility and consumption. The law also provided that the pouring of alcoholic beverages at sports events was not allowed. We have before us the first proposal to amend and supplement this law proposed by our fellow Member, Jani Möderndorfer, and was rejected by the committee responsible after a lengthy discussion. The bill contains provisions on the advisability of selling or offering alcoholic beverages at sports events one hour before and during a sports event, if they do not exceed 15 % by volume of alcohol. The applicant would continue to grant exclusive rights to sell or offer alcoholic beverages only to organisers of sports events who may conclude an agreement with the operator of a sports facility or with other persons if they could not conclude such an agreement with the manager. The last amendment is justified in connection with the unregulated financing of sports clubs. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not have a unanimous position on support or opposition to the bill. This is a proposal for amendments where the arguments are both fairly balanced. At the meeting of the parliamentary group, we discussed and asked ourselves whether pouring alcohol was the best way to finance sports associations or sports organisations. Sports societies and sports organisations are financially malnourished, this is a problem we have to face. At another stop, of course, we somehow had in our ears or in our head an old river Mens sana and corpore sana, a healthy spirit in a healthy body, and we also found that we have almost incomprehensible that at some events we are allowed to pour alcohol. Let's say at proms. So are we celebrating our mature exam with alcohol? However, I am pleased to see and hear many principals and principals of primary schools, who at primary school and also at gyms where older people are recreationd and sports events are also not allowed to enter alcoholic beverages, which I think is fine, and it will be fine if that remains the case. On the one hand, when you visit sports events in almost direct Slovenia, you can see a different practice where the pouring of alcoholic beverages at sports events is allowed, but in different percentages of the alcohol content. High sanctions for serious violations of public order and peace at sports events are also at stake. On the other hand, in Novi Slovenija, we are also aware that alcohol in Slovenia is a social problem and we are at the European summit in relation to the quantity of alcohol consumed per capita. There is a higher risk of accidents and violence and of serious violations of public order and peace at sports events due to drinking alcoholic beverages. Studies abroad show that sports fans are more often the target group of advertising and promotion activities of the alcohol industry and that risk alcohol consumption is more common among them than among others. We have not formed a common position in the New Slovenia Group of Members, as we say, so we will vote as always, in conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u48	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u49	This is actually a demonstration of something today that is essentially not worth Parliament. We talk and read texts, but there is really no debate, because it cannot be because we only read opinions. And that's it. This was the achievement, the ultimate achievement of the Health Committee, to thus cut off agony and fear of truth and powerlessness. In fact, what happened was that after 13 years someone didn't want to and didn't want to admit that one of the measures didn't work. Instead of regulating it, correcting a mistake, he prefers to talk about liver cirrhosis, lists traffic accidents and a problem in a family that is not solved by a ban on alcohol at a sporting event. If that were true, if that were true, then we would ban any alcohol spill in this country at any event, an event. They don't. Try to suggest in this new novel, come with him every day and ban alcohol at all events, if you're really honest and really think you're putting alcohol on the baby. Stop drinking alcohol at concerts, at events, everywhere. Even on a fireman's party. Let me see. The priest can drink every day, twice a day, or three times when he has a mass, an alcohol, in the name of faith, and a church ritual. Isn't that a bad example for a child? We are indeed moving forward in the national assembly and waving our hands before all possible people to observe this beautiful word: not to go one step back, not to step back – what message will this be? But, you know, I'm afraid there's one thing I'm afraid he's just gonna have to make time. I'm looking forward to the moment when NGOs come, and they'll ask you for health. What is most sad is that we discussed the measure without the presence of the Ministry of Education and Sport, there was no reaction from that side. And more importantly, the majority against this measure, of course, to regulate it, do not go to sports events at all. He has no idea about sports events, how they are organized, how they are financed, what is really going on and what the real dynamics of these sports events are. Everyone sees only and only what they see on TV, it's a football game and another big event. They do not know, however, that sports events take place in Slovenia every week, there are 300 per week, and that the biggest problem is the sports club. But because we like to refer to other countries very much, Slovenia is one of the five countries that introduced it, and all the other countries we like to refer to have this problem solved. And there they seem to be judgmental enough to know how to serve these things. Even at the World Cup in football there is no problem in drinking beer, and it will be a problem for Slovenian society as a whole at an event that lasts an hour and a half. But they are not really interested, with concrete measures, in what to do in the actual field of alcohol, which today can be consumed until disability on the street 24 hours a day by all young people. We don't have an answer for that. We prefer to go after athletes and then shout that minors are at risk and that we give them a bad example. We're going to a cultural event in Cankarjev dom, and we're taking a champagne break and we're going to culture. And then, this weekend, to his old mom's house, and tonight, to a fire party. Today we will hear many more in these presentations, ironic and ridiculous, especially in terms of action and result. But personally, as I said before, next week I'm re-investing this same law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u50	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u51	Dear President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! The applicant submits that the basic purpose of the amendments to the alcohol restriction law is to allow the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages at sports events, thereby providing financial means for the operation of sports organisations whose operation is hampered by tight economic conditions and austerity measures. We do not have the concrete analyses and assessments of the financial effects announced by the proposer. Support for the proposal comes mainly from interested sports associations and associations. On the other hand, the competent ministries and stakeholders point out that the financial implications for the country arising as a negative result of the release of alcohol at sports events may be greater than the positive effects that this change would have imposed. In the Modern Centre Group of Members, we believe that the acquisition of alcohol at sports events is not a suitable way to promote sport. Therefore, our view is that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u52	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption, which was adopted in 2003, also prohibited the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages in sports facilities, an hour before and during the sports event itself. The proposal to amend this law, however, seeks to re-enable the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages at sports events which do not exceed 15 % by volume of alcohol, one hour before and during a sports event, since the existing measure of complete prohibition is disproportionate to all other measures. The organisers of sports events could obtain additional financial resources for their activities by eliminating the total prohibition on the sale of alcoholic beverages. This is mainly the case for a large number of smaller sports companies that are struggling to survive the grant they receive from the local community, membership and sponsoring funds. It is true that this change in Slovenia would allow the sale and supply of alcohol in sports events only after 17 years. Re-authorisation of the sale of alcohol at sports events may contribute to increasing the risk and harmful use of alcohol among the inhabitants of Slovenia, but we can only assume this because no analysis has been carried out to this end. As explained in the proposal for a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption in 2003, there was no justification for restricting the consumption of alcohol at sports events, which is why such a measure is taking place. There were no reasons and no consequences. However, all the other indents adopted by law at that time were given valid arguments in the explanatory memorandum. It is also true that the population of Slovenia, with consumption of 10 to 13 litres of pure alcohol per capita per year, is already well above the limit of 5 litres, where according to the World Health Organization, the financial damage suffered by the country due to the consequences of alcohol consumption exceeds the very benefits of the country's sales of alcohol. It is also true that the assessment of the costs following the analysis of the National Institute for Public Health for the recovery of alcohol-related consequences in 2011 was as much as EUR 242 million, while all excise duties on alcoholic beverages in the state budget were EUR 92 million. It is also true that, after drinking alcohol, we are reaching an unenviable fourth place within all EU Member States and that every 10 inhabitants of Slovenia are drinking at risk. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we absolutely agree that alcohol consumption is harmful and is a major problem in Slovenia. It is worrying that the trend in alcohol consumption in Slovenia is increasing mainly among young people. But the change in the law before us does not allow the sale of alcohol to young people, does not allow the advertising of alcohol, does not allow alcohol to flow before 10 a.m. Only organisers of sports events or operators of sports facilities could sell alcoholic beverages. For example, if you arrive an hour or two before a sports event in front of an object where a sports event takes place, the restaurant is packed with lots, allowing you to make a profit primarily to the owners of the restaurant. This amendment of the law would allow for additional income for sports companies or clubs. And last but not least, as has already been said, at all VIP sports venues alcohol is poured in unlimited quantities. It is also known that 50 kilometers north of us, here I mean Austria, alcohol at sports events is allowed to pour, and Austria has a significantly better health system and probably also significantly higher values than we have in Slovenia. And that's it. Why are we only talking about sports events? Also at other events involving young people, we do not think of restrictions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We'll vote on our own. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u54	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. One more nice hello to everyone. Slovenia has taken important steps in the field of alcohol policy and has achieved results that are recognised abroad, but the fact remains that, despite the excessive consumption of alcohol, we have major problems that are particularly pronounced in young people. Alcoholism is indeed a major public health problem, since alcohol is the third most important factor in disease and eighth in mortality or mortality. From the point of view of public health, therefore, every step has been taken to reduce alcohol consumption is good and means less severe diseases, less death and less tragic events that mark many Slovenian families today. With regard to the content of the proposal for a new law, let me say that even those who do not favour the proposal understand the intention of the proposer to help sports clubs that are in fact facing a severe crisis in the financing of sport. However, for this purpose it is essential to find a different, better and, above all, a harmless solution to public health. Many of the arguments put forward by the proposer of the novel can be true, and there are certain reasons why we in our parliamentary group do not have a completely uniform opinion on the support of the amendment of the alcohol restriction law. However, inconsistent legislation or its inconsistent implementation cannot be a reason for an important step backwards in the field of alcohol policy. While we believe the proposaler's claim that alcohol consumption at the sports events itself would probably not increase. Undoubtedly, additional advertising and the integration of alcohol with healthy sports activities would result in a longer-term increase in the consumption of alcohol at the level of the country and thereby a greater damage to public health. Slovenians already have a traditionally extremely tolerant attitude towards overindulgence in alcohol. It was about customs, customs, and the like. And this is a problem that the World Health Organization sees as one of the most important. This is the desigmation of alcohol as something socially acceptable, harmless, which is a completely wrong signal mainly for the younger generation. In the Desus Group, we agree that much more needs to be done to effectively limit alcohol consumption than to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages at sports events. More activities and resources will be needed in the area of prevention, more will have to be done to reduce access to alcoholic beverages, appropriate pricing policies and good example of parents with their healthy lifestyles, which do not include alcohol abuse and society as a whole. It is encouraging to note that the number of municipalities restricting the consumption of alcohol in public places is increasing. Two days ago, such information about the adoption of the decree was published in Novo Mesto. I believe that the long-term awareness of alcohol damage will prevail over today's tolerant relationship with this harmful habit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u56	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u57	Dear President, Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The law before us raised quite a few pieces of dust and desired a different kind of affection. The separation of support is high. On the one hand, those who feel that the alcoholisation of visitors at sporting events cannot be prevented in any way, on the other hand those who consider such a proposal to be a step backwards and should consider additional measures to limit alcohol consumption. The objective pursued by the proposer of this novelty completely deviates from the basic orientation of the current alcohol restriction and consumption law, which is aimed at limiting alcohol consumption and measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol consumption. The aim of the proposer shall be of a financial nature. The applicant submits that such a provision would have a positive impact on the finances of smaller sports companies as it would allow for the acquisition of additional means of operation. However, it is correct to mention the indirect negative financial effects on the state budget when referring to the positive financial effects on sports companies. The sum of all costs and diseases, injuries and poisoning related to alcohol consumption was € 159 million in Slovenia in 2011. In 2003, in the Group of Social Democrats, we considered that the Act on the Limitation and Consumption of Alcohol was necessary and that its adoption was in fact the responsibility of any serious State that cared for the physical, mental and social health of its people. Most of us have not changed our minds, so we cannot give support to such a neoliberal concept of thinking and functioning that the goal increases all resources. In 2003, we accompanied the adoption of the law by saying that we are aware that this is only the first serious step on the thorn and a very long and difficult path, which will reduce the great tolerance for alcohol or the very positive attitude towards its over-consuming in our country. This is not the mission of the Ministry of Health, this is the task of the government as a whole, of society as a whole, and of course of every individual among us. 12 years later, we find that nothing has changed. The tolerance is still too high, the alcoholics are even more. Instead of having proposals on the table to reduce our infamous drinking statistics, we have one that still encourages drinking. It's definitely a step back. In a country where almost a million people are directly affected by alcoholism, each of us should turn on the alarm signal. Perhaps a million sounds excessive, but in Slovenia it is estimated that between 150 and 200,000 alcoholics. If only the closest family members are affected, the average Slovenian family has 3 members, thus suffering more than half a million citizens and citizens of Slovenia. However, since alcoholism is not stopped by domestic walls, a wider circle of people should be included. Tolerance is simply too high. The price we pay as a company is too high. Of course, it would be unrealistic to think that we are turning these drinking trends upside down. Prohibition would also be counterproductive. The aim we must follow is to protect health, protect public interest to preserve this health, health as a very important value and good national importance, not least to protect children, women, and protect citizens. How many children are affected by this most unrelenting social illness, how much violence causes, how many premature deaths, social distress, and traffic accidents with fatal outcome! The problems arising from overindulgence in alcohol are simply too great. We therefore need an additional set of measures to save our society before it drowns in wet culture instead of bending the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u58	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you, President, for your word. In principle, in the United Left, we do not oppose the fact that organisers of sports events generate additional income through a guest activity involving the pouring of alcoholic beverages. The fact is that such an activity is allowed at a number of other events and thus other entities can legally generate additional income. This option is clearly reduced for sports clubs and companies under the applicable Alcohol Consumption Limitation Act due to the prohibition of the pouring of alcoholic beverages during pre- and during sports events. At that time, because of the presence of visitors, the only real option is to create this additional income. The applicant provided for certain safety measures to prevent or at least reduce the risk of public order and peace when it provided that only alcoholic beverages with a maximum alcoholic strength of 15 % and exclusively in soft packaging and in premises specifically designated for this activity should be poured. We are certainly aware that there are also substantial reasons for limiting the flow of alcohol at sports and other events with a high emotional charge, especially the risk of violent accidents. Surely we must also count on the demonstration effect that the ban on the pouring of alcohol on children and youth, but we must be aware that the ban often only achieves the transfer of alcohol to the surrounding facilities and thereby marginalises those visitors who moderately and normally consume alcohol. Drinking alcohol on its own is not a crime, and in certain contexts it is not a health problem. In its opinion, the Government also said and agreed that the removal of restrictions on the flow of alcohol at sports events would not increase the consumption of alcohol and that the main demonstration effect is mainly the advertising of alcohol brands, which is not the subject of this law at all. According to our assessment, there was a lot of demagogism on both sides in the debate on this law. The government referred to general statistics on alcoholism and alcohol abuse. But we all know that alcoholism has social causes in particular and is not the result of what happens at sports events for two or three hours. The criminalisation of alcohol will therefore not solve these problems. On the other hand, the applicant called on sports clubs to work more with young people due to their additional income and to increase sports activity in general. This is also misleading because there is no instrument in the law to ensure the purposeful use of such funds. There is no guarantee that these funds would be used for recreational and mass sports, instead of strengthening professional spectacular sports. Watching sports events is not sport and also waving financial holes in professional clubs will not increase the sporting activity of the population. Below the line, if we look clearly, the real problem that this law opens is the lack of funding for the operation of sports organisations. In the United Left, we are not interested in those organizations that are engaged in professional spectacular sports, but this is a common market activity, the real problem is the financing of mass sports activities that are increasingly paid out of pocket, which, of course, is increasingly and increasingly bringing inequality. This problem has to be solved somehow. The proposed law is certainly not the best solution in this direction, and even worse it would be to break the debate before any better solution was ever designed and proposed. Therefore, the decision proposed by the Labour Committee will not be supported in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u60	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it is on the proposal of a law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for the sake of health in the first defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The area of acquisition and transplantation in the Republic of Slovenia is now governed by two laws, namely, the Act on the Seizure and Transplantation of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment, adopted in 2000, which regulated the area of removal and transplantation of parts of the human body, laid down the principles and conditions for withdrawal. The second law, on the quality and safety of human tissues and cells intended for treatment, was adopted in 2000 for the implementation of the European Union Directive 2004; it specifically regulated the quality and safety of tissues and cells and the conditions for the removal of tissues. What are the reasons for the new marriage? This is the first European directive adopted in 2010, namely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality standards and the safety of human organs. In the field of this quality and safety intended for transplantation, and the so-called Commission's Special Implementing Directive on procedures for the transmission of information in the exchange of human transplant authorities between Member States was adopted in 2012. This Implementing Directive lays down precise conditions for the smooth legal exchange of bodies at the level of the European Union and European organisations with a view to reducing risks, abuses or even trafficking in human organs. The next novelty or reason for the adoption of the new law is that we complement the area of consent to sacrifice in the case of deceased persons, whereby it is stipulated that any person who is able to decide for himself on the treatment may, for the time of his life, in writing or even expressly oppose it; this is an essential novelty compared to the legislation currently in force. And the fourth important novelty of the bill is that we complement the so-called supposed consent; that is, that now the removal of human parts of the body after death is possible, for the first time, in the event that the donor consents to the gift for the time of life, and, secondly, in the event that he has not been identified for the time of life, the gift is notified to the person who was close to the deceased. If this person disagrees with the withdrawal, it shall not be done. However, if a person who has been close to the deceased cannot be obtained, the withdrawal shall also not be carried out. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation, called Slovenia Transplant, as the competent authority in the field of transplantation activities in the Republic of Slovenia carries out the tasks of coordinating this activity of acquisition, transplantation and destruction, coordinating specific seizure and transplantation, managing waiting lists of recipients, assigning and exchanging organs, ensuring traceability, controlling serious adverse events and serious adverse reactions, monitoring of acquisition activities and the transplantation and management of a very important central registry. Slovenia operates as the central coordinating office of the national transplant network and ensures its continuous and uninterrupted functioning. Since 2000, Slovenia has been a member of the international network for the exchange of organs and tissues of Eurotransplant, which is made up of Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Hungary, Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Participation in the large transplant network is also extremely important due to the relative smallness of Slovenia, as it provides solidarity assistance to the network in emergencies and helps to improve the outcome of transplants. Due to the professional criteria for the necessity of transplantation of Slovenia, about 60% of the organs are exchanged in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u62	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u63	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The transplantation of part of the human body is considered to be a radical treatment in the event of the patient’s final organ failure. Today, we can argue that this is a well-established method in transplant medicine, where over decades and experience has developed a complex process of developing expertise and organisation, and consequently the effectiveness of such treatment has increased. Since the transplantation field is rapidly developing, it is essential that the rules and standards of quality and safety for the implementation of this health activity be laid down at the same time. Due to differences in the quality and safety requirements of donated or transplanted bodies between the members of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Directive on quality and safety standards for human organs intended for transplantation, which is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by means of a proposal for a law. By setting these standards, we create an environment that contributes significantly to the availability of organs of dead and living donors, increasing the availability of organs, efficiency and accessibility. It also ensures the quality and safety of procedures. The success of the treatment of transplant procedures depends on the timely placement of the patient on the waiting list and on the quality of performance at all stages. With clear criteria of quality and traceability, by unifying the international space and by defining the legal basis for activities in the area of the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body, we help to develop an extremely complex system that combines all organisational and professional activities in the process of a number of successive events that are necessary in the course of transplant treatment. In the SMC Group, we believe that the bill follows the guidelines of the European Directive and establishes a modern environment for the further development of transplant medicine that enables the survival of many seriously ill people. We will therefore support the conclusion that the proposal for a law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment is suitable for further treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u64	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mrs Jelka Godec, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u65	President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues! Not all advances in medicine to date have or have led to this point in order to help any patient with all medical treatments and methods. In the last 50 years, however, transplant medicine has progressed greatly and is somewhat relatively young knowledge. Organ transplantation has become an established practice around the world. Treatment with organ and tissue transplants is becoming increasingly well-established in the treatment of the worst diseases. Transplantary medicine also gained its place in Slovenian space and stood alongside world medicine. In 1969, a laboratory was established in Slovenia to determine tissue conformity at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Blood Transfusion. The following year, 1970, the first kidney transplant of a living donor was performed at the Clinical Center in Ljubljana. The same year, a corneal transplant was carried out. In 1989 she was first removed and transplanted by the deceased donor's kidneys. The use of human transplant organs has gradually increased over the past two decades and is currently the most cost effective treatment for end-stage renal failure; and for final organ failures such as liver, lungs and heart, even the only available treatment is available. Slovenia has been one of the top 10 successful organ donation countries in Europe over the last few years, according to the number of donor deaths per million people; it is also achieving Slovenian transplant medicine with the highest results in heart transplantation, where we are at the world summit itself. Compared to the European average, we achieve an average of good results in the survival of patients with renal transplants, as well as in the survival of renal transplants. According to statistics, 119 authorities were transplanted in 2012 and 122 in 2014. There were 115 other people on the national waiting list last year. We have 20.9 donors per million donors, and we are very comparable to the other countries in the European Union, so we have a higher average than the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg; a little less than Belgium, Austria and Croatia. The first transplant law was passed in Slovenia in 1985, in 2000 the National Assembly passed the Act on the Abduction and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment. The law lays down the conditions for the removal of parts of the human body for treatment in the case of living and dead donors. The donor’s card was introduced, so people decided to sign it so that in the event of death they could take away the transplant authorities. The definition of organ and tissue donation is the highest form of individual ethical consciousness and the highest form of solidarity with the human being. By defining the time of life as a donation, you can become a donor of organs and tissues after death so that you can help the patient maintain or provide him with a better quality of life. Currently, in accordance with the applicable Act on the withdrawal and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment, transplantation should only take place if the donor agrees in writing and if the risk to its health is within the medical criteria within the limit acceptable. During life, the removal of parts of the body is done only on the basis of the donor’s written consent. Only those parts of the human body that the body may miss or those that can be restored in the body of the donor can be donated. The donation of organs for the time of life is limited to giving to people with whom the donor is genetically, relatively, or emotionally connected. In order to avoid abuse, each such case of donation of parts of the human body must be dealt with separately and agreed with by the Ethics Commission for transplantation. After death, parts of the body of the deceased may be taken away from the transplantation of another person after medical criteria and in a prescribed manner with certainty have established the death of the donor. If a person has not been identified for the time of his life as the donation of his organs after death, his organs may be taken away if his fellowman does not object. Slovenia has also been involved in the Eurotransplant for more than 10 years, meaning that it has been working with other European countries in this area, which are also included in the Eurotransplant. She had already cooperated in part, but after 2000, she was more active. We need to know that it is necessary to have as many donors as possible to find a suitable donor whose tissue typification is as appropriate as possible for the potential recipient. Thus, it is possible for as many people as possible to obtain an appropriate body. By participating in the Eurotransplant, the number of donors with typographical related tissue has increased significantly and the possibility of obtaining the required body more quickly is increased. This, of course, also shortens the waiting species. In order to ensure a high level of public health, the exchange of human organs between Member States requires detailed and uniform procedural rules for the transmission of information on the characteristics of organs and donors, the traceability of organs and the reporting of serious adverse events and effects. The main problem is the suspicion of abuse. Serious adverse events or effects that may affect the quality and safety of organ donation and consequently the treatment of recipients may occur in the Member State of origin or in the Member State of destination; and in the case of live donors, health. It is essential to ensure, in all cases, that serious adverse events or effects arise, so that all competent or authorised authorities from all the Member States concerned are informed without delay. Therefore, Member States must ensure that all relevant information is circulated between all Member States in the form of written communications. In this regard, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation – Slovenia's transplant ensures that there is no abuse in us. There are also no priority organ allocations. The main reason for amending the existing Act on the withdrawal and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment is the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation, which requires Member States to harmonise national legislation with the rules of the European Union, in particular in the field of quality and safety of human organs. The bill before us, namely, the proposal for a law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, changes or complements existing legislation in the area of consent or rejection of the individual. Under the European Union Directive, Member States have the possibility to regulate the area themselves. The law provides that any person who is able to make his own medical decisions may accept a donation in writing during life or oppose the donation of parts of the body after death. An individual may be identified for or against giving. The Register of Donors will be administered by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for organ and tissue transplantation – Slovenia transplant. Of course, the person who makes a statement against it may at any time withdraw his written statement in the same way as it was made. The removal of parts of the human body shall not take place if, following an explanation received by the nearest relatives or patients, the medical officer expressly opposes the seizure of parts of the human body; and because of the circumstances cited above, the deceased did not agree to the removal of parts of the human body after death during life. The bill also provides for the monitoring of living donors after the donation; it sets out who can carry out the activities of donor and transplant centres. These can only be public institutions under the law. Above all, it is important that the law also devotes a good part to updating and maintaining quality in this field and protecting the personal data of the donor, recipients, relatives and loved ones. The fact is that transplantation is an area of medicine that is legally very sensitive. Some ethical and moral issues have also been raised throughout this activity. But it can improve many people's quality of life and even prolong their lives. It is important that the area of transplantation, that is, the area of the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body, is legally regulated so that there is no abuse or poor quality in this area. That is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are in favour of the legal regime. We will vote each on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u66	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! Before us is the first consideration of the draft law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment. It is not a completely new law, as it has been transposed with some additions to the existing regime, which has proved to be effective, but also includes amendments to the EU Directive, which relate mainly to quality and safety in transplant medicine. The current Act on the withdrawal and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment was adopted 15 years ago; and five years ago, with a large majority in the National Assembly, unfortunately, the proposal for a law on transplantation of organs was rejected, and the public was excited by a proposal for an alleged consent to donate organs after death if the individual did not make a statement of express opposition. This alleged consent, however, is known by several European countries in which the availability of transplant authorities has increased by about 20%. The current bill does not provide for this. With regard to the statement of organ donation, the arrangements supplemented by certain provisions remain in force so far. A person who is able to make his own medical decisions may, in the new age of life, also have a written objection to giving after death. The draft law simplifies the definition of donation, since it provides that an individual may express his or her decision to a personal physician or by electronic means, by means of electronic signatures. For the latter form, however, it will only be necessary to establish an electronic system, which means that we cannot expect these options in the short term. According to Slovenia, less than a percentage of people in Slovenia define their willingness to donate organs after death, but in the event of the death of their loved ones nearly 80% consent to organ withdrawal. If a person has not been specifically identified, a part of the body may be taken away from the deceased only if his loved ones or relatives do not oppose it. Such arrangements are already in force today. Otherwise, the main reason for the adoption of a new law which will fully replace the current one is the harmonisation with the European Directive in the quality and safety standards of human organs intended for transplantation. This lays down precise conditions for the smooth legal exchange of bodies at EU and European organ exchange organisations, with a view to reducing the risk of abuse or even trafficking in human organs. According to the requirements of the Directive, the proposal also requires monitoring of living donors after the donation and the obligation to report on any adverse reactions that might occur in a living donor in connection with the donation. The activities of donor and transplant centres may be managed by public health establishments in compliance with the conditions laid down by the Minister on the basis of a proposal for legislation. However, in the field of personal data protection, the proposal of the law gives particular emphasis to the protection of the data on the donor and the recipient by accurately specifying the content of the records that include this personal data. Members and Members of the Desus Group support the bill and we will therefore support the conclusion that this bill is also suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u68	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much again for your word. The government has prepared a completely new Law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body due to the treatment that has been passed on to us by European directives and smaller but significant changes to the existing regime. In view of the scope of the changes, the government believes that it is more reasonable to settle the missing areas with a new one, which, with some additions to the current law, will fully replace the current law. The purpose of the bill is to fully regulate the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment. These are ethically sensitive issues that concern the protection of fundamental human rights and the protection of the human person even after death. The bill complements the scope of consent to sacrifice in the case of deceased persons, stipulating that any person who is able to decide for himself on the treatment of time of life may in writing accept the donation or oppose the donation of parts of the body after death. This person can submit by filling in the form, which can also be transmitted by e-mail by new means. We particularly welcome the solution that will allow anyone who wants to become a donor to express their decision to a personal physician. The information on the definition of the donation shall be recorded on the health insurance card and shall remain invisible until death, as it may only be read after death by an authorised doctor. The donor, however, has the right to revoke his original decision on the posthumous gift. The gap between the need and the number of human organs available for transplants is increasing all over the world; more and more in Slovenia. As transplant medicine progresses, the number of people waiting for organ transplants increases from year to year. According to available data due to lack of organs, 20 to 30 patients die annually on the waiting list. In our Group of Members, we believe that some of the deaths of those awaiting would be prevented only by one more consent. In the Republic of Slovenia, transplantation activities are highly developed in both professional and organisational terms, mainly thanks to Slovenia's transplant. In the fact that the lack of organs or other parts of the transplant body is one of the major problems in transplant medicine in Slovenia and the world, we must all take a step forward together and take into account the additional effort to make people aware of the importance of organ donation in order to increase this percentage. An individual’s decision to donate organs is a reflection of his values and his attitude toward people. However, the individual’s decision to become a donor is often difficult due to different personal circumstances, the influences of tradition and lifestyle. Most of the time, there is a lack of information about seizure procedures and fear of possible abuse, so more time will have to be devoted to this topic and people's awareness of the importance of organ donation after death will need to be increased. The Thousands of Books Project is currently under way — a thousand signatures designed to alert people to the importance of giving as the highest form of assistance to fellow humans. With the support of the company Slovenija transplant was also published the book I am a donor who is a personal confession of a mother whose daughter's decision to donate organs after death has already saved her life twice. We want such and similar projects to remove all traces of ignorance and fear and encourage people's decision to donate organs to this highest form of unselfishness and compassion that man overcomes. The Social Democrats will support the law. However, we want Transplant to continue to carry out this noble mission of lifesaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u70	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, on its behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! In the United Left, we have been paying particular attention to whether this law allows the donor and the recipient to express their will and whether it prevents the organs or parts of the body from becoming goods traded in any way. Illegal trade in organs and parts of the body – that is, reality and experience from reality show that any form of organ donation commercialisation would pose a major threat to the health and well-being of people in material distress and vulnerable social groups such as immigrants. These groups could certainly result in unjustified interventions into individual health and integrity in the event of commercialisation. It is therefore necessary to avoid in any way the slightest possibility that someone, by giving gifts to his or her foreign authorities, could receive a legitimate payment or that organs which are subject to trade or which have not been withdrawn in accordance with the rules could enter the legal system of organ donation. The law and directives provide for a number of safeguards to prevent this. I'd only point out three in this place. The law provides that organ transplantation or donation activities may be carried out exclusively by public health establishments, i.e. non-profit organisations. The same applies to Slovenia's transplant, i.e. the public transplant agency, which coordinates this activity at the level of Slovenia and cooperates with other countries. This prevents any possibility for an individual, usually a doctor or a healthcare professional, to gain any legal property benefit by taking and transposing organs. The other guard shall be the traceability of the authorities, which means that no authority may enter this system that would not have been withdrawn in accordance with the rules. Simply put, the authorities of unknown origin cannot be used in this system because it prevents any possibility of using unlawfully seized bodies. A third guardian is also a ban on advertising the needs of authorities or the availability of authorities for commercial purposes. In our view, these or other solutions ensure that body parts cannot become goods. This protects those groups of people in Slovenia and, above all, abroad who could be victims of trafficking in human works. Apart from the social or economic dimension, it is also important to have an ethical dimension, namely respect for the dignity and freedom of choice of individuals and individuals. The law in this area does not introduce any major innovations in relation to the current regime and does not deviate from international practices. It is important that no withdrawal is possible without the donor’s express consent. In the case of organ donation after death, the definition of the donor for the time of life shall be taken into account. Each of us can already be identified with a personal doctor or submit a statement to the Slovenian transplant. If he disagrees with the gift, this decision is final. If an individual is identified as a donation, the consent of the relatives is not necessary; however, in Article 12, provision is that the immediate person must be informed prior to the withdrawal. If an individual is not identified, that is likely the majority, his neighbors will decide on the gift. In this regard, Article 13 is very strict, so that in the event that contact with others is not possible, the deceased is not allowed to take the organ. With regard to the removal of parts of the body of a decommissioned embryo, withdrawal is not possible without the written consent of the woman who carried the embryo; and only on the basis of the prior approval of the Ethics Commission for transplantation and medical ethics. In the United Left, we estimate that in this way the dignity of the deceased is adequately guaranteed before the removal of organs after death. As is known, some organs or parts of the body and tissues can also be donated by living donors. As a rule, tissue that is being recovered, such as bone marrow, is donated. Even after the current law, it is allowed to donate a single kidney or part of the liver, and the new law, thanks to the progress of medicine, also allows for the donation of lung work. So far, all lung transplant procedures for Slovenian patients have been conducted in Vienna. Perhaps this branch of surgery will now develop in Slovenia. The gift of living donors has been limited to relatives, family members, and those with whom we have a special emotional relationship, according to the old law. Minors may offer only exceptional donations, with the written consent of the Ethical Commission for Transplants; however, any organ donation may only be made by explicit written consent of the donor. If I can sum it up. From a social point of view, this law must prevent any form of organ trafficking and prevent anyone from providing an advantage in transplanting with their influence and money. From an ethical point of view, it must enable the free choice of the donor or his fellow man. At this stage of the procedure, the proposers would draw attention to two issues that we believe could be better addressed. The third paragraph of Article 4 prohibits advertising the need for body parts where such advertising is intended to seek profits or similar benefits. This prohibition is fully justified but does not solve the problem of finding suitable tissue for transplantation. Let me explain this a little bit. The need for bodies of dead donors, in our view, is under no circumstances allowed to advertise. The donation of individual kidneys, liver or lung parts by living donors is legally limited to relatives and family members, so that any advertising here is not actually meaningful. However, it makes sense in the case of tissue that is being recovered, such as the bone marrow, where it often occurs that someone very urgently needs a transplant, but does not have a suitable donor because blood groups have to match. In the past, there have been several public campaigns to locate the bone marrow for transplantation to a specific individual, usually of known personalities. As far as I am aware, patients are left with more than themselves when searching for transplant tissues; this means that public figures and people with wealth and the impact of much more opportunities to get to transplant tissue in time. In our view, it is not appropriate to regulate this with illegal standards, but it should be the responsibility of public institutions in this area, specifically Slovenia's transplant to carry out search-and-seek actions, if I may say so. Here we could follow the Red Cross and the Blood Transfusion Institute, which, in cases of lack of blood of individual blood groups, issue special public calls and extraordinary blood supply actions. The Public Institute of Slovenia would conduct anonymous search operations according to some priorities that would be determined in accordance with the professional criteria and ethical principles of transplant medicine. Slovenia has this knowledge and data. After the current regulation, Slovenia maintains a waiting list of organ and tissue recipients and a register of non-corrosive bone marrow donors. The best solution would not be to add this to the 40th Article as one of Slovenia's tasks as a transplant. The second deficiency is set out in Article 3. The definition of persons close to the deceased donor is discriminatory to unregistered same-sex couples. In the case of diversified couples, they may give their opinions to their spouse and their extramarital partner, but they may not. When the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations enters into force, of course this will no longer be a problem, but at this stage the formulation itself is unfair and, in our opinion, incompatible with the Constitution, so it will have to be amended. In the United Left, we are aware that these questions are because they touch death and serious disease, some form of taboo, and they trigger certain fears. However, we are also convinced that there is no real reason for fear in the regulated system in which all organ trafficking and any commercialisation of this activity are prevented. There is no need for religious and moral prejudice to be an obstacle to helping fellow humans and ensuring the progress of science in treating and improving the quality of life. We certainly hope that in our society, which, for example, is world famous for its sacrificial blood donors, the willingness to help our fellow human being even after death, and, if not otherwise, with the authorities that we no longer need after death, will become something self-evident. We will therefore support the law, but we expect clear answers from the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u72	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u73	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! We have before us the first consideration of the proposal for a law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment, which fully replaces the law in force in this area in 2000. The Government shall base the urgency of the law on the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality and safety standards for human organs intended for transplantation; and on the implementation of the Commission Directive on procedures for the communication of information in the exchange of human organs for transplantation between Member States. The bill amends the scope of consent to be given to deceased persons according to the existing law, stipulating that any person who is able to decide for himself on the treatment of time of life may in writing consent to the donation or oppose the donation of parts of the body after death. In this case, in the absence of such a definition, a part of the body may be taken away from the deceased, so-called supposed consent, if not opposed by those close to it. The law lays down the conditions for the removal of parts of the human body — organs, tissues and cells — from a living or deceased person and the conditions for transplantation into the body of another person for treatment. The bill deals with ethically sensitive issues that concern the protection of fundamental human rights and the protection of the human person even after death. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for a law with safeguard mechanisms must harmonise all interests and prevent any abuse. Organ donation can be an expression of solidarity, humanitarianism, for it is a matter of concrete help for those in need. In doing so, the donor’s free consent is decisive. In the case of a living donor, it should be borne in mind that the donor must not suffer severe and irreparable harm in relation to the treatment and that the physical and psychological harm and risk of the donor must be proportionate to the good that we want to achieve with the recipient. In the case of a dead donor, death must be established with certainty and consideration must also be given to the death of a dead body. Human bodies must never be subject to trade, but must be subject to free donation. In New Slovenia we believe that in the case of a living donor it is necessary to respect ethical criteria such as free consent, free donation, respect for the physical life of the donor and recipient. The risk must be proportionate to the possibility of success, and the life of the donor must not be jeopardised; and the protection of the recipient's personal identity. According to Slovenia, the transplant was on 5 January 2015 on the waiting list for the transplantation of 187 patients, 136 for the kidneys, 31 for the heart, and 20 for the liver; and 31 for the liver. 12. 2013 in the register of 16 thousand 29 donors. Slovenia's transplant is in line with the indications in their 1999 annual report as an equal member of Eurotransplant, an international organisation for the exchange of organs of dead donors between Member States' transplant centres. Eurotransplant is a non-profit organisation acting as an international transplant network that organises the exchange of organs between the individual transplant centres of eight countries: Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria, Croatia, Slovenia and Hungary. It brings together 133 million people. The seat is in Leiden, Holland. Slovenia is the country that participates in the largest number of projects as a junior member of the European Union. Slovenia has prepared and participated in the largest projects or working packages between young countries in the field of transplantation. Since Slovenia is very active at the international level, New Slovenia believes that it is all the more important to set quality indicators in all segments of transplant medicine – donation, allocation, transplantation, resources and treatment output. We know that there are many exchanges of bodies between Member States. There is currently a lack of uniform quality and safety standards in the area of organ security and it is very important that this requirement is met. It would therefore be useful to draw up a law on the quality and safety of human organs, which is a very important topic that has been dealt with on the basis of the requirements of Directive 2010/53/EU for years. A particularly sensitive and exposed topic has been the equality of patients for years now, as we know that the organ acquisition programme is very different in different countries of the European Union, while each country should take care of its patients regarding the availability of organs. Transparency in keeping waiting lists is important to avoid scandalous cases of abuse of legislative gaps. Due to the lack of organs, various criminal associations exploit this state and transform people's concerns into profitable trafficking in human organs. Indirectly, we can combat such behaviour by raising awareness and encouraging citizens to give, of course, taking into account all security risks and ethical issues, as well as the risks of transplant tourism, when people in many third countries are used to obtain organs. Organ donation and transplantation is a sensitive and important issue, with good legislation and good practice saving thousands of lives each year. The questions about the thin line between life and death are very sensitive, so in Novi Slovenija we draw attention in particular to the ethically controversial article 14 in the bill regulating the removal of parts of the body of the transplanted embryo; we will therefore propose the deletion of this article in the process. Otherwise, this article is not new in the bill because it already exists in the law in force; we would be interested to know how many consents have been issued by the Commission for Medical Ethics and what the purpose of this provision is, since this is not clear from the explanation of the article. Given our great international activity in the exchange of organs and involvement in the Eurotransplant, where the members of the Netherlands and Belgium have legal euthanasia, the ethical issue of the admissibility of the exchange of organs of euthanised persons is raised. As said by the late Dr. Trontel, President of the Commission on Medical Ethics, I quote: "They have already begun to link euthanasia and transplantation in Belgium." Slovenia has already been asked whether it will adopt such bodies, so this area in the draft law should be further regulated in our opinion. In New Slovenia we do not oppose the regulation of legislation in this area, but our support will focus on already exposed ethical dilemmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u74	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister with co-workers, nice greetings to Members and Members of Parliament! The bill before us is not new, but given the main reason for the changes in the implementation of Directive 2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation, it has required such changes as should have been made in our legislation by August 2012 that a new proposal for a law has emerged. The second Commission Directive 2012, which should be implemented in our legislation by April 2014, regulates controlled mechanisms that will reduce the risk of abuse or even trafficking in human organs. It also lays down procedures for the transmission of information in the exchange of human transplant authorities between Member States. This proposal for a law governs the arrangements with regard to the giving of organs and also the withdrawal of consent. A person who is able to make his own medical decisions may, in the new age of life, also have a written objection to giving after death. However, the definition of giving simplifies the law. Each individual shall express his/her decision to a personal physician, by e-mail, by electronic signature, to an authorised person in the places of registration, in public health institutions, in Slovenia a transplant, with a personal document and a health insurance card. The donor has the right to withdraw his decision. Giving and receiving is anonymous. After twice the Commission's death determination, the conditions for the removal of the dead donor's tissue or organs are met. The choice of non-random recipient shall also be governed by the rules of the correct medical indication of the recipient. Gifts for life are usually donated through a family line, especially organs that do not endanger the treatment of the donor. To avoid abuse, such a donation must be treated and agreed by the Ethics Commission for transplantation. The activities of donor and transplant centres may, however, be carried out by public health establishments in compliance with the staffing, spatial, technical and other conditions laid down by the Minister. The protection of personal data is governed by the Act with particular emphasis on the protection of the data of the donor and the recipient by specifying the content of the records containing the personal data. Surveillance is the responsibility of the Health Inspectorate and the Information Commissioner. The fines are set at up to €6,000. We support the regulation of the area of acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment; we encourage the development of human body parts transplantation activities based on new achievements of modern medicine and provides significantly better treatments. It is also an ethically sensitive issue in the field of fundamental human rights and the protection of the human person to the point of death. We support the proposal of the law by means of safeguard mechanisms and the prevention of any abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u76	Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has been a member of the Eurotransplant since 2000 and allows for the exchange of authorities from seven European countries, covering 125 million people. The need for transplants in these countries is found in 15,000 patients. 6,000 200 transplants were made, some 110 of them in Slovenia. Slovenia took the first step in this direction of medical services about half a century ago. The first bone marrow transplant was 26 years ago, and the national network was established in 1998, and in 2000 we received the law that is now in force. The aim of this law is to establish a national system to regulate the integration of organisational, professional, technical and information procedures in one place and to bring the law in line with the European Directives, which guarantee quality and set standards in this field; thereby allowing greater security for these services and also reducing the potential for abuse in this area, particularly for commercial purposes. The law introduces the term "parts of the human body" because it regulates not only organ transplants, but also tissues and cells. It also designates the competent authority that gives work permits, namely, we are talking about work permits in donor centres, which is implemented in Slovenia by nine hospitals and the Clinical Centre. This is about organizing the collection and supply of organs and tissues and establishing a transplant center, which is only a clinical center for us. Slovenia is responsible for all professional, organisational, information and technical organisation and international integration. The problem is also very complex from a legal, organisational and ethical point of view. The law also regulates consent to a donation. With us, every person over 15 has the right to determine whether he wants to donate organs or not. After death, however, it is sought, or it may be opposed. It is gratifying that we do not now oppose the donation of organs to 80% of the people, but we have only 1%, which is much less than in the Netherlands, where 38% of the consents were reached in the best possible times. We can use the donation capacity from Belgium, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria and Croatia, and we also provide the authorities to these countries if there is no customer in Slovenia. This leads us to a higher number of donors. This also allows a higher rate of survival, but above all it gives a higher quality of life, because transplantation is a very strong intervention in the human body, but it can greatly increase the quality of life for many patients if it is successful. This year we also achieved a logistical improvement, as Slovenia signed an agreement with the Ministry of Defence to hire a Falcon aircraft to transport from more remote countries authorities that cannot transport another transport. This move will also reduce the waiting period and save some life. That's how we're going to transfer 20 to 25 organs in one year. It's mostly about hearts. As this law allows for better quality in patients, greater safety of patients and also reduces the risk of abuse, I think that further consideration of this law needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u78	Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much, President. Slovenia has, as in some other areas of health care, very good results here, which it can praise and with which it walks in parallel with countries with which we recently like to compare and have well-groomed health care. It is important to know, however, that there is a huge amount of work in the past years, either within the framework of the Eurotransplant, in connection with the organisation of this service, or in connection with the European network; and also in the individual institutions, where we need to know that there are always highly qualified teams at our Clinical Centre in Ljubljana for the removal of organs of donors who have become under the envisaged procedure, as well as teams carrying out transplants. I think that there were 115 successful transplants at the Ljubljana Clinical Center last year, which means that 115 people have somehow been brought back to life or significantly improved quality of life. However, there must be something clear, of course, that transplantation and its further development cannot be and will not be if we do not have enough donors at our disposal. The definition of someone to become a donor, I believe, is difficult. And it's not strictly linked, it would be very easy, just in procedures, where and how you define yourself as a donor; but especially on a large scale of confidence in the health system itself, in confidence that there will be no abuse and that the work will be done properly. Everyone has this decision in them, and this decision is not and will probably never be simple and only reasonable. It is simply difficult to think about what will happen to you and what will happen after death, in any way possible. Therefore, in some way, as I mentioned earlier, I am sorry that we did not try to reach out to each other in the law despite everything, which would mean that each one of us is a giver, unless otherwise stated or otherwise defined. In this way, the number of donors in the countries that have accepted this has increased significantly, including by about 20%. And that would probably be the right way. The question of whether today is a good time, though rationally again, is unlikely to happen. A decision will have to be made once. I also hope that this proposal, which provides a slightly greater security in the field of transplant medicine, especially in terms of abuse and also easier ways to define, will achieve its purpose – this is a larger number of donors. I think that in the long term the only right path is proper development, appropriate progress, and above all trust, as it were, in health, medicine alone, in the competence of our doctors. I don't think without that donor, it's gonna be enough. And the other thing that would probably be important is that it also requires an appropriate and appropriate approach, but the broader debate, of course, is forced, on transplant medicine issues – what does it really mean, what procedures are, how and how it can be very effective to help. What's always not available is today. This is what I wanted to say, and it is perhaps even more important that we resolve the dilemmas that arise, that we will not always have in the healthcare sector the problems that are present, which accumulate, but in no way diminish the importance and value of the work of all health teams; let this be in the field of transplant medicine like others, that it is still doing very well and still comparable to the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u80	Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. As I pointed out at the outset in my position, the fact is that we are only following the guidelines of the European Directive by means of a proposal for a law. The fact is that we need to adopt the rules that have already been adopted at European Union level and implement them into our legislation, because we are already a little late. Under the law in force, transplantation may be carried out if such a person chooses to live; if not, organs may be taken away from the deceased only if their loved ones so permit. Now, however, the new law fully regulates the area of organ and organ transplantation or parts of the human body for treatment. This is also important or mainly due to the entire transplant network, which includes Slovenia as a member of the Eurotransplant. The fact is that we have the right to obtain organs for our Slovenian recipients, but of course we are obliged to do so if we have not used them for our patients, even to offer Eurotransplant. I would just like to point out that there are still a lot of reserves in Slovenia, as less than 1% of the population chooses to donate organs after death; contrary to what the colleague has already said, with a very successful country in the Netherlands, where up to 38% of the people are identified for the donation. The fact is, organ donation is a noble decision, and with it we can save health, we can save a lifetime. It is somehow true that in Slovenia there is a very high general willingness to donate organs, but this percentage or general willingness is significantly reduced when it needs to be specified. I agree with my colleague Gantar, and I am also of the opinion that the supposed consensus is the right way to go. However, I am also aware that the system of alleged consent is not the only reason that some countries have such a high share of donors. Nevertheless, transplantation activities would probably be considered to be somewhat thorough to revive with organizational changes, as they have done in Spain. There is likely to be a significant need for more education, promotion of medical personnel and the general public in order to achieve greater support for organ donation after death. It may also be a little strange that health personnel in Slovenia still do not detect all potential donors. In some countries, for example, they have even hired a special profile of health workers, so-called transplant coordinators, to avoid this. Unfortunately, four patients a day die in countries in the Eurotransplant area, which brings these seven countries together with 125 million inhabitants, because they did not wait for organ transplants. In Europe, if we look a little bit wider, there are 400,000 people on the waiting list for transplants. Unfortunately, about 10 people die every day because of the lack of donated organs. There's probably more room in this area to do something else and move things the other way. The law is certainly necessary, and yet it must be made clear to people that it is a radical intervention in the human body, that postoperative complications are possible. These are very sensitive issues that concern human rights and the protection of privacy even after death. Therefore, or particular attention will have to be paid in particular to safeguard mechanisms to prevent any abuse in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u82	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's consideration of the bill's proposal, I think, has been very extensive and I have to express my concerns here and also a bit of criticism. Unfortunately, the information on the Slovenian website is very difficult to access and copy. When I wanted to learn about the operation of Slovenia's transplant, and this can most often be understood from the annual and business reports, I found it has been working since 2000 and the reports were for 2012, 2013 and 2009. I can say that this is very costly, given that we are talking about human organs and that reports, as in other companies, should be strict, regular and also publicly accessible. This is where the criticism goes at the expense of that. This isn't on the website. You can go check it out. I went to check again to see if there was any change, no. And there was another matter I missed preparing for today's session. The medical ethics website is also under renovation. In short, two websites, which in some ways form the basis, apart from the legal basis, for today's session, for a quality debate, do not work or are not perfect. I want to give a warning here that one gets the feeling that things aren't arranged or that they're flawed. Then you ask me again, I don't know if it's good for anyone, if it's the fact that there's no abuse. Madam Minister, I would expect, however, to have already raised the question in my position on the ethically controversial article 14 of the bill regulating the removal of parts of the body of the transplanted embryo. I wonder what these body parts are used for? How many were the requests or requests for this? And how many permits were granted in this area? That's what I'm interested in. Since this has already been the case in the draft law, I think that there should actually be some grounds or requirements or use, because otherwise they would have optimised the matter in the preparation of this law; and if this article were not applicable, it would probably have been deleted by itself. There are other things that I have to touch because I think it is very recent in Slovenia, and it is international. It is the admissibility of the exchange of bodies of euthanised persons, as I have read and, as stated, Slovenia has already been asked to determine whether these bodies of euthanised persons will be accepted or not. I have also read the words, unfortunately for the late Dr. Trontl, President of the Commission for Medical Ethics. During the period when Slovenia made a decision in this area, he unfortunately passed away too quickly, so that the matter hung in the air. However, I would like to point out that when preparing or deciding on this, it is still necessary to take into account who are euthanized persons, that they are ordinary people who are incurably ill, who have no chance of being treated with any medicine or medicine. I spoke to a lady who was a pioneer in the field of transplantation in Slovenia, and she warned me that this was practically unacceptable because people who in countries with euthanasia are allowed to do so have their metastases, or whatever you might say because I am not a doctor and I can't even express myself in this way. I would like to know how appropriateness is being monitored, or how these organs are healthy, that there is no possibility of worsening the patient’s condition that this body receives? I have to warn myself about what was happening in America when cancer patients were deprived of bone tissue parts — I think it's freely available here and I can look at it — and these people actually got rid of one disease and got another. In short, I'd like to ask for these two answers if I can get them. The support of Christian Democrats to this law is primarily linked to these ethical dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u84	Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! I believe you all agree with me that acquiring and transplanting human organs is a very sensitive topic. I believe that this is not only the theme of our politicians or politicians, but of all Slovenians. Well, then, the first idea of transplantation is over a hundred years old. The first attempt to transplant the kidney into animals was made in 1902. An interesting review of some milestones in the human organ transplant I found online in 1954 was the first successful kidney transplant of a living donor, in 1962 the first successful kidney transplant of a deceased donor, in 1963 the first successful lung transplant, in 1967 the first successful liver transplant, in 1967 the first successful heart transplant, in 1981 the first successful heart transplant. And very interestingly, in 1992 he transplanted a monkey's liver to a human. In Slovenia, the first successful kidney transplant was performed in 1970. When we talk about the acquisition and transplantation of human organs, we must first and foremost respect human rights, namely the right to decide for themselves whether they want to receive an organ, whether they want to donate it during their lifetime or after the death of someone else. Of course, long waiting periods and ethical dilemmas are often the cause of the great shortage of donors. As we can also understand from literature that is quite on the website, some religions have been identified until transplantation. Christian faith is known as a voluntary willingness to offer organs in order to save the life of someone else by giving mercy, love, and generosity. In classical Buddhism, organ donation is an ideal for good for society and a reflection of generosity. The Japanese version of Buddhism, however, sees in the body something extremely unclean, dirty, and dangerous, making it unacceptable for the living to give organs to the dead. For Islamists, transplantation of life-saving organs is acceptable and a valid treatment method. Unfortunately, there are also some areas, such as Pakistan, where the illegal sale of organs flourishes. This is mainly about poorer people, whose organs most often or usually land in the bodies of wealthy people, especially foreigners. The large increase in the sale of poor people's kidneys was detected even after 2004 in southern India. From this we can conclude that for most religions organ donation is a noble, humanistic, and ethical act. But it is probably unacceptable and unethical just to expect someone to accept someone else’s organs, but he himself is not willing to give. Therefore, in introducing changes in such a sensitive area as the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body, at least in my view, as I have already said, a broader debate and a common consensus are needed to further develop and improve the quality of life of the recipients of these organs. My opinion is that it is necessary to involve the whole of society, government and non-governmental organisations as well as cooperation with international institutions in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u86	Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor; Dr Matej T. Vatovec and Mrs Jelka Godec are to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary! Let me say that I myself support the fact that we have decided to hold a general debate on this bill. Many debaters have said that we are talking about the sensitive things that I think need a consensus of society, professional consensus and civil society. Many debaters also spoke and drew attention to the issue of trafficking in human organs. I myself believe that our legislation and the European Union have done little in this area. Otherwise, it has been possible in the last period to track some efforts, both at European Union level and in countries, to organise themselves more in the fight against trafficking in human organs, but I think it will also be necessary to change the situation in society. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I would say that not all advances in medicine have led us to the point where all available medicines and technology could help any patient. In the last 50 years, however, organ transplantation has become an established practice worldwide and the use of human transplants has increased in the last two decades. Treatment with organ and tissue transplants is becoming increasingly well-established in the treatment of the worst diseases. The definition of organ and tissue donation is the highest form of individual ethical consciousness and the highest form of solidarity with the human being. By defining the time of life as a donation, you can become a donor of organs and tissues after death so that you can help the patient preserve or provide him with a better quality of life. In accordance with the applicable Act on the withdrawal and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment, transplantation should only take place if the donor agrees in writing and if the risk to its health is acceptable under medical criteria within the limits. Transplantary medicine is a relatively young knowledge that has gained its place in Slovenian space and has stood alongside world medicine. As regards legislation in this area, it is worth mentioning that the first transplant law in Slovenia was passed in 1985, and in 2000 the National Assembly adopted the Act on the Abduction and Transplantation of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment. The law lays down the conditions for the removal of parts of the human body for treatment in the case of live and dead donors. The donor card was also introduced. That is how people decided to sign so that in the event of death they could be taken away from them by transplant authorities. In the last period in Slovenia, transplant medicine has developed well according to the criteria, I think. Over the past few years, according to the number of donors per million people, we have been ranked among the first 10 most successful countries in organ donation in Europe. Also, Slovenian transplant medicine achieves good results. We have 21 donors per million donors, and we are very comparable to the rest of the European Union. With the participation of Eurotransplant, the number of donors with typographical related tissue increases significantly. There is also an increase in the ability to obtain the required organ more quickly and thus reduce waiting periods. For organ donation after death, 5,000 people are currently registered in the Slovenian register and 16,000 people are currently enrolled in the donation of the bone marrow. During last year, 175 transplants were carried out in 2014. As far as the legislative proposal is concerned, the main reason for amending the existing law is the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation, which requires Member States to harmonise national legislation with the rules of the European Union, in particular in the field of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation; and in 2012 the Commission Implementing Directive on procedures for the communication of information in the exchange of human transplantation bodies between Member States was adopted. The bill amends or complements existing legislation defining the area of consent to sacrifice in the case of deceased persons, stipulating that any person who is able to decide for himself on the treatment may, during the course of his life, consent to a donation or oppose the donation of parts of the body after death. The fact is that transplantation is an area of medicine that is legally very sensitive. Some ethical and moral issues have also been raised throughout this activity. But it can improve many people's quality of life and even prolong their lives. It is also clear that legal regulation of this area is also necessary for the proper and quality functioning of the transplant procedure. I basically support the purposes of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the word to prepare Mrs. Jelka Godec. Here you go, Mr. Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In a way, I'd just take another position. I think that this debate has been quite constructive and also focused on the right course. In the United Left, as stated in the position, we expect two things from such legislation in particular. This is to prevent any commercialisation of the transplant activity, to say trade in parts of the human body; and to properly regulate the area of consent or when and how such withdrawals can be made. We believe that this law, as proposed, regulates these two areas properly and in the only possible way possible. But we have two comments, and I'm going to say that again. The first is the question of finding suitable tissues, meaning how to ensure that transplantation activities expand as much as possible and also increase this base of donors or donors as expressed by counterpart Gantar; and who are those who can decide upon the donation after death. The first relates primarily to some mechanisms, system mechanisms that facilitate the search for these organs or tissues. As I said in the introduction, this is especially easier to access to those who are more widely recognized in the public, so is the famous person who, because of being on television or in other media, reaches a greater number of potential donors or donors; and, on the other hand, people who, in their own way, have more or more mechanisms to reach a wider network of potential donors. Our opinion is that this law should in its own way also establish some mechanisms to ensure that Slovenia has a transplant or any government service at the Ministry systematically allow those who need tissues to systematically search for the most suitable donor. Now we know that individuals do this alone with solidarity actions on the facebook or through other channels, when we mass-search for a suitable bone marrow donor or something like that. I think this may be one of the shortcomings of this law that should be addressed. The second point is that the definition of close persons – as I said – is somehow excluded in the current formulation, as recorded, from the part we regulated a few months ago, is that of same-sex couples, particularly those living in unregistered same-sex communities. I think that this provision would be necessary to amend it in such a way as to be consistent with the efforts that this National Assembly has made by amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations to extend this definition to all possible forms of family relations. Article 14 concerning the collection of tissues and organs of the prodigal embryo was also highlighted in the discussion. It is clearly stated here that this can only be done by the written consent of the woman who carried the embryo. I think we have no objection in this situation to this regime being at all controversial. In short, as I have said in my position, in this area the health benefits should be weighed by various moral, religious fears. No one is forced to accept or donate an organ, but the system certainly has to encourage it to give, that is for sure. Comrade Gantar has raised the issue of alleged consent. I support this idea, I think that's how we would at least try to increase this pool of potential donors. He also mentioned that there are 80% of our relatives who allow us to take parts of our bodies. I think that this is a good information that shows some other high level of solidarity in Slovenian society. I think we need to keep it or encourage it and make as many decisions as possible to go this way to make donations after death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that we must all respect the right of people to make their own decisions about their own bodies, and in particular respect for the principle of dignity of human beings, physical integrity at the time of life and after death. It is very difficult for a person to decide whether he is a donor or not. I think this is a huge lack of knowledge for an individual and that it is a difficult decision to be a donor, including some kind of confidence indicator in the health system or in health care. Many people today wonder how to trust our health care when they read the news about Dr. Radan, and this topic in the National Assembly is the organ donation. Although I know far from the fact that the matter is connected; and this also needs to be told people not to compare these matters. There is also much talk, especially years ago, about the abuse or sale of parts of the human body. It is right to talk about it, but it also creates fear in people. According to surveys prepared in the European Union and the United States, the main factors affecting the decision are, say, demographic variables. A greater willingness to donate organs after death is found mainly in young people, women and people with higher education and higher economic status. Information and knowledge are also important because if people do not know or lack knowledge and are not well informed, they are much more difficult or do not choose to give. There is also much talk about religious beliefs, but all surveys, as well as other studies, show that most religions, or more important religious confessions, support the donation of organs after death. Disbelief is also linked, as I said, with confidence in medicine and also with fear of death. Relevant surveys in Slovenia have shown the same percentage or the same factors that affect the donation. Youths, those with higher levels of education, employees, and, above all, unbelievers — atheists — express greater willingness to give. I would say that this part of medicine, which is a relatively young part, must also be legally regulated so that there will be no abuse. I hope that in Slovenia, at least according to the information we have, these abuses do not occur. It is true, however, that here and there, information, news, that people, because of their economic status, survive, also sell their human organs, which is of course sad. I hope that with this law or with all similar regulations in this area it will be as low as possible in Slovenia and that there will also be as many donors as possible to help reduce these waiting times and help those most in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, representative of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to answer some of the concerns and questions raised by honourable Members and Members in their explanations. Perhaps I should start with some information that tells us that in spite of this, according to some of you, we have a relatively small number of donors in Slovenia that are identified in advance. Let me tell you that Slovenia has been ranked among the top 10 successful organ donation countries in Europe over the last few years, given the number of donors per million. I agree with the debaters, with all those who have stressed this human gesture of donation or definition in advance. Some have also expressed the possibility that in fact the law would declare the possibility that those who do not explicitly oppose it would mean that they would automatically become a donor after death. However, there are concerns of the constitutional profession, especially in terms of the protection of our body even after death. I think and I'm sure that awareness is the most important thing here. The awareness of all the inhabitants and of ourselves to identify ourselves and to make a statement for the time of life and to register as a human act; and thus we can make it possible or save any life after our death. Among other things, as some of you have already mentioned, our transplant medicine also has excellent results, especially in the field of heart transplants, where we are the first in the world to have a number of heart transplants per million people. And even after the results of survival, say compared to the European average, we achieve an average of good results in the survival of patients with transplanted kidneys. We think this is certainly the success of our medicine and also Slovenia's transplant. I think that more communication and awareness will be needed here in particular, so that people will make a voluntary decision and become donors. If I do not start from the end down; Mr Vatovec of the United Left had some questions or comments, in particular Article 3 of this Act, which you have mentioned as discriminatory with regard to same-sex partners. Let me say that in the 21st paragraph of this Article, a dictatorship was drawn up when we were preparing this law for the legislation in force at the time. That is why this dictatorship is as it is in this article. It is, however, a fact that until the second reading, we will align this dictatorship of our articles with all existing, existing legislation, so that we will also prepare and correct it in this part. With regard to raising awareness, I have already given an answer; with regard to the exchange of organs and data, I think it is sufficiently well defined in the draft law from paragraphs 31 to 37. With regard to abuse, let me say that there is a special convention of the Council of Europe against trafficking in human organs and awareness. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not yet among the signatories because this Convention is a relatively recent date. I am sure that Slovenia and the Government will join the signing of this Convention as soon as possible, which defines or allows such trafficking or abuse of human organs. Furthermore, with regard to the quality and safety itself, as defined in Chapter 3, I should mention because there have been several questions concerning how to ensure quality standards for organs. Let me say that we already have, after now, a special rule of law that sets these quality standards. Even in the new law, the legal basis of Article 19(2) is to prepare, or to make, a draft new rule on quality standards for organs, which will provide further assurance, even more detailed than the law states. I agree that all interests must be protected. He was mentioned, if I may recall, Article 14 of this bill, which speaks of the removal of parts of the body of a dead fetus. Let me say that this is a dictatorship which is already in force in this law, that this withdrawal does not actually occur and has not occurred in the past. This article is, in fact, more than a precautionary safeguard, which speaks of the need for two security guards, if any, to obtain such a withdrawal. One protector is that, if anyone wants to, it is necessary to obtain special approval from the Commission for Medical Ethics – this is the special, highest national authority in the Republic of Slovenia which approves or rejects all such matters. It cannot possibly be said that this committee would not give an opinion. On the other hand, it was important to ensure that the doctor who performed the abortion, even though the Commission would grant the authorisation, should not take part in the withdrawal or transplantation. These are the control mechanisms that will not and will not result in such withdrawals. I think there's a fear here that such situations or cases might come to an extreme. Even now, there have never been such cases. Then there was a question related to the annual reports. Let me mention that Slovenia's transplant is a separate public institution according to public institutions, that there are all annual reports on the website, both business and accounting. Unfortunately, it is not yet, since we have now checked the complete business report with the financial statements for 2014; however, all other relevant data are. I find it difficult to answer what the Commission for Medical Ethics is like if they are now renewing the website. We do not have the interference or the prospect of doing so, but I will ask and ask that this website be recast as soon as possible and complete with the data, the annual report, because it has already been adopted in the world of the institution. [[…]] As regards the waiting lists themselves, we will also define in this Regulation how the selection of the recipient of the body takes place. The cases shall take place in such a way that, after all the conditions for the removal of the tissue and organs of the dead donor have been met, the choice of the recipient for the individual organs shall only begin. The selection of the patient among those waiting on the list is determined, as I mentioned, by a rule that ensures correct medical indications and also fairness in the choice of the recipient. With regard to advertising, it should be pointed out that commercial advertising is prohibited; however, non-profit advertising or calls for a donation are allowed. Treatment with stem cells is not the substance of this law and is not regulated by this law because this is, I'll say, a special law. We're talking about human organs and body parts here. Then it's possible about euthanized persons. Let me say that Slovenia does not take organs in those countries where euthanasia is legal. We know that they are Belgium and the Netherlands. It won't be possible in the future. That's how much I'd like for an introduction now; I think I've answered the grave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to 8. On a proposal from the Institute for Health Protection of Slovenia in connection with the failure to carry out government conclusions, greater transparency of payments and preparation of system solutions of effective supervision over the implementation of health services. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Jernej Vrtovac. Group of 30 Members and Members with first-signed mags. She asked Matthew Tonin to hold a general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. With regard to this proposal, the Health Committee recommends to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Tomaž Gantar, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Health Committee is at its fourth session of 6. 5. as a working mother, he considered the proposal for a recommendation from the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance concerning the non-implementation of government decisions, greater transparency of payments and the preparation of systematic solutions for effective supervision of the performance of health services submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jernej Vrtovac. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Jernej Vrtovec presented the supplementary explanation and proposed the adoption of the recommendations. He pointed out that the recommendations were made mainly because of the many problems facing Slovenian health care and according to the NSI party, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia has a large part of its responsibility for the inefficiency of the health system. The recommendations are aimed at making the operation and financing of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia more effective. The representative of the Legislature presented their written opinion and stressed that the National Assembly may only propose to other national authorities those measures which fall within the express and predetermined competence of individual bodies, taking into account their constitutional or legal autonomy and independence in the exercise of those powers. She made specific comments on the individual parts of the recommendation and stressed that the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group did not remove the irregularities found and that the proposal was therefore not harmonised. The Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, presented the Government's opinion and stressed that the proposal makes recommendations inadequately and illegally trying to solve the problems that are present in the health sector, but does not support their resolution by the Government in the proposed form. The representative of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia v.d. Director Sam Fakin presented in detail the functioning of the institution and the legal framework in which the institution operates. He rejected the allegations that the institution did not respect the conclusions and stressed that the ZZZS was run by the Assembly and the Management Board and not by its Director, Just Fakin. The Assembly has its powers governed by the law, which is consistently respected by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which is also taken care of by the Court of Auditors. They have not received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors in the last eight years. The representative of ZZS also provided answers to some of the applicant's questions and highlighted the most current areas, such as financial resources for the stable implementation of compulsory health insurance, waiting, level of contribution rates, sweet drinks excise duty, the contents of the basket of rights, the universal basket of rights and access to health rights without restrictions and competition in the insurance system. Pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the following decision: a proposal for a recommendation to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance concerning the failure to implement the Government's decisions, greater transparency of payments and the preparation of system-wide solutions for effective supervision of the performance of health services is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the proposal to recommend to Mr Jerne Vrtovac for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u97	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with a team, Chairman! For many years, the Slovenian health system has not worked as it should. The Slovenian health system has, in our firm belief, been in real disarray for many years. There is no doubt about it, and we are witnessing almost every day. Long waiting periods, health lobbying, expensive services, long waiting lines, anomalies in the accounting of health services, prices of medicines – these are all our problems that we have to solve, but unfortunately we are not the most successful in doing so. We are simply delaying problems, making strategies and analyses, and unfortunately the problems remain. Slovenian taxpayers devote a lot of money to our health system, and we therefore rightly expect that according to the financial contribution we will also have a human health care. But a health system in which, I stress, for the operations of our children, we need to collect stoppers, send them abroad, such a health system is not worth a man. Because the Slovenian health system is literally in disarray, the consequences are, for the first time, for the citizens, because they do not have quality treatment, i.e. long waiting periods and types, types, I speak in the infirmary, and of course also in the financial state of the country. One of the biggest problems of our health system is undoubtedly the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the monopoly that the Department of Health Insurance has. It is the monopoly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia that allows the prices of services to be so high and the quality to be poor. Large anomalies occur, for example when calculating the prices of the service, when posting and control itself. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which converts over EUR 2.3 billion annually, is one of the major problems in the Slovenian health system. The ZZS is one of the largest financial funds in the country with approximately €2.3 billion of annual income, but it is weak to control, in most ZZS controls itself and sets itself a regulatory framework. In order to improve the functioning of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, we have made recommendations in Novi Slovenija concerning three areas. The first recommendation states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia requires the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to prepare up to 30, in accordance with Article 26 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. 6. 2015 standards and standards of services and other compulsory health insurance rights, which are the basis for determining the prices of health services. The second recommendation concerns system solutions for the transparency of healthcare payments. And the third recommendation says that the institution must prepare systemic solutions for transparent supervision of the travel and delivery of health services and report this to the National Assembly not least. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the National Assembly may, in accordance with business arrangements, propose measures for work, organisations and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also requires the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia to prepare, in accordance with Article 26 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, standards and standards of services and other compulsory health insurance rights that are the basis for determining the prices of health services. The current system for negotiating the health services programme is such that the ZZS and the contractor agree on a programme that can be implemented during the year. Therefore, the contractors have a limited programme paid by the institution, but it does not include the needs of the insurers. Every time a general agreement on the basis of which contracts are concluded with operators does not in any way include standards and standards, since the same services should then be paid equally to all operators. The adoption of health service standards and standards is therefore one of the key measures to implement the so-called health reform. With some, I repeat, €2.3 billion of annual income is one of the largest financial funds in the country. And once again, his control is extremely poor. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the Department of Health Insurance does not comply with the conclusions of the Government which are binding on this institution. In accordance with the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has on several occasions adopted a decision to draw up standards and standards for the Institute of Health Insurance. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of 18. 3. 2010 commissioned the institution to develop within 6 months the standards and standards of services and other compulsory health insurance rights, which are the basis for determining the prices of health services, in order to ensure a more adequate funding system at the time of tight employment conditions. A similar decision was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2011 and further in 2013, when the institution finally called on it to respect the decisions adopted by the Government. Unfortunately, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia did not respect the proposed decisions adopted by the Government. We therefore call on the institution to draw up, in accordance with the legislation, standards and standards of services and other compulsory health insurance rights that are the basis for determining the prices of health services, since otherwise no additional measure can be fair to all insurers. Without the establishment of standards and standards of services and other health insurance rights, it is not possible to take the next necessary step that would transparently and equally address the basket of health rights. Without these simple definitions, we will never go further than a few times to try to change any law in the healthcare system. Another recommendation is that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia prepare system solutions for transparency of payments. Health care payments are untransparent today. The Court of Auditors also supports this. The financing of health services is designed in the form of distribution of funds by health activity. The very basis for the distribution of funds is the indicative common value of the entire agreed health service programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which is re-coordinated every year with the partnership agreement between, for the first time, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Community of Slovenian Natural Medicine Centres, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, the Pharmacy Chamber, the Community of Training Organizations of Slovenia and also the Institute for Health Insurance itself. On the basis of the agreement, those stakeholders shall determine the details of the implementation and financing of health activities during the current year. The overall agreement is thus the only basis for programming the scope of programmes and funding at the level of the individual operator. The problem is that the Department of Health Insurance does not have all the details of which specific health care has been paid to an individual operator for a certain period of time. The ZZS shall thus pay the operator the calculated coefficients and points, but shall not receive any information as to how many investigations or interventions of an individual type have actually been carried out for the amount paid. This is what the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out in 2013 as well. The Health Insurance Office also does not pay health service providers after a real weight, and it has never proposed transparent arrangements for this anomaly. As a result, medical bills are additionally burdened and hospitals are operating on a loss basis. The payment system itself is therefore a major anomaly to be addressed. Such accounts and imprudent payments are a typical example of the planned economy. The system should be based on realisation and not on the plan. As a result, health establishments are in losses because they do not have services paid and, on the other hand, the representatives of the ZZS show business with profits. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, of course, knows these anomalies and is certainly aware of them, but the problem is that it does not eliminate them or proposes better solutions. Further than the third recommendation, we propose systemic solutions for transparent supervision of the travel and delivery of health services, as the Health Insurance Office is obliged to supervise health service providers. However, it does not fully exercise this control, as the Court of Auditors also pointed out. In fact, the Health Insurance Office makes it impossible to control individual health service providers. The CFSP has thus not published the minutes in order to make them available to the authorised representatives of the operators in order to prevent the recurrence of annual errors. Furthermore, the ZZS does not publish the amount of controls by public authorities and concessionaires. This should be done, as this would increase the transparency of business. There is a suspicion that there are therefore conscious actions that benefit some, so it is necessary for the institution to provide supervision for individual health service providers. As regards the inefficiency of controls, the Court of Auditors has already warned the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance that the control environment is not exposed or functioning in such a way as to fully ensure the correctness of accounting. The Court of Auditors also concluded in 2012 that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in 2010 also showed amounts which did not have a basis in prescriptions, that pharmacies accounted for the wrong prices of medicinal products and that the doctor code on certain prescriptions was not valid. This is just a few typical anomalies that are concerned with the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the recommendations we have just presented, we have prepared Christian Democrats in the faith to take a step forward in eliminating the anomalies and problems in the Slovenian health system. We can no longer see in New Slovenia how citizens and citizens are deprived of a good, effective and quality health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you for saying that again. Your Honor! The Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Jernej Vrtovec submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a recommendation to the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance concerning the non-implementation of government decisions, greater transparency of payments and the preparation of system-wide solutions for effective supervision of the delivery of health services. Article 26 of this Act provides that the scope of the health services referred to in Article 23 and Article 23 and Article 23c of this Act, which are provided for under compulsory insurance, shall be determined by the standard standards of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia in general acts in agreement with the Minister responsible for Health. At its 34th meeting on 29 April this year, the Government adopted an opinion on a proposal for recommendations in which it considers that the proposal for a recommendation is inadequate and unlawfully trying to resolve problems which it agrees must be addressed and resolved, but because of its inadequate proposal, it does not support these recommendations in the proposed form. The Government also bases its opinion on the fact that standards and standards for the work of healthcare workers or staff and labour standards cannot be compared with the standards and standards set out in Article 26 of the Health and Insurance Act. By adopting such recommendations by the National Assembly that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance take into account the decisions of the Government, the latter is placed in the position or position of the Government, for which there is no legal basis in the applicable legislation. With regard to the preparation of systemic solutions, however, the Government considers it controversial to impose the right of systemic solutions for the transparent implementation of certain tasks of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which it carries out under law, since this can only be achieved in the form of a bill as a legal act. The preparation of systemic solutions is a mission of the Ministry of Health and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia can be actively involved. An opinion similar to that of the Government was also the opinion of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly. For the sake of all things, we believe that the proposal for recommendations, despite its good purpose as proposed, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, chairman! Once again a very nice greeting to everyone! Our health system works badly; I don't think I've said anything new about it. In ten years, eight ministers were replaced. The whole responsibility for the poor health system and the unregulated situation is certainly borne by the Government, the Ministry of Health and, finally, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. We need a reform of the health system. However, we are dealing with who will be the director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, who will be the director of UKC, we are dealing with the Emergency Medical Regulation, which has been prepared without field expertise and which will also be the most affected area. This is not a reform by giving health care more money and building new emergency centres to appoint or elect a new director of the Health Insurance Institute or UKC. But this is what we do the most at this point, at least that's what you're feeling from the Ministry. However, the reform of the health system will begin when we ask ourselves once again why our health system is not working well, why there are always the same problems, why doctors and nurses will strike, why hospitals operate negatively and, of course, when we also find a desire and, above all, will to find answers to these questions. Our health system is not satisfied with users, it is said, patients, not contractors or financiers, and not least politics. All these stakeholders are hampered by long waiting lines, poor management of some public health institutions, the acquisition of expensive equipment, still no standards and standards for programmes implemented in hospitals, no level playing field in the salaries of doctors, no competitiveness, no shortage of doctors and corruption that has never been disclosed and no less sanctioned. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia has no doubt played an important role in the development of health policy. Over €2.3 billion per year flows through the institution or its account, and the institution indirectly influences around €450 million of voluntary health insurance and around €430 million of direct health expenditure of the population. The Health Insurance Office is therefore an institution that operates directly or indirectly with about €3.2 billion of health money, almost 9% of GDP. Thus, the institution is one of the largest, if we say so, companies or businesses in the country. The health treasury is therefore one of the four pillars of the public financial system in addition to the state and local budgets and the pension treasury. There is no doubt that the institution plays a very important role, often a crucial role in the financing and regulation of the health system, in the creation of health policies, in the work of operators and of us, citizens themselves. As citizens, we are connected to the institution from birth to death through compulsory health insurance, in which we are entered so automatically at birth and deleted at death. Well, there's no medical system without the agency, as we know it today. The Institute is a hybrid in its functions between the Ministry, the regulator, the supervisor and the insurance company. In contrast, even with his own name — although not the ministry but the public office — he performs a large part of the government’s ministerial function. Although he is responsible for health insurance, he is not an insurance company because he does not operate according to insurance policy but according to administrative principles. The institution is, because of its functions, capacity and information base, an institution without which the Ministry of Health cannot operate. And that's what the Department of Health Insurance is aware of. It is unacceptable that the institution ignores the requirement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which called on the institution in 2010, 2011 and 2013 to develop standards and standards of services and other rights from compulsory health insurance, which would serve as a basis for determining the prices of health services and which would provide a more adequate funding system at the time of tight operating conditions. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not received these standards and standards to date. Since the Institute failed to comply with the Government’s conclusions, individual contractors themselves went ahead with their preparations. They prepared standards and regulations, but unfortunately these standards and norms had to lie in drawers like many others. The relationship between the Health Insurance Office and healthcare providers is also a particular problem. This relationship can be abused due to scientific relationships. This is because there is no specific role of the institution, either the authority or the insurance undertaking. Instead of contracts, the relationship with operators is governed by a so-called partnership agreement on programmes where the rights and obligations of operators are expressed through a non-transparent system that gives operators the possibility to set standards that do not reflect effective implementation but the prevailing situation of past years. In such a system, there is, as a rule, an over-compared service and additional funding requirements. The Health Insurance Office does not purchase services from providers, of course through legally valid contracts, which would oblige them to operate within the framework of contractually agreed amounts. Such legally undefined relationships give rise to a large part of health problems, notably the pressure on additional resources, the inability to sanction excesses, the long waiting line and so on. However, the absence of an effective health policy is, of course, being used skillfully to achieve their own interests, by lobbying once, twice by other institutions, for example, with additional funding requirements, to reduce employment standards, health procedures standards and so on. Therefore, the Institute does not pay after the implementation of the health service providers. As a result, there is an additional burden on the health treasury and hospitals are operating on a loss basis. The Office shall also not publicly publish contracts with health service providers or the final annual accounting methodology for each individual operator on a secondary level. Such publication would mean greater transparency in the functioning of the Health Insurance Office. The imprudent treatment of financial assets is also shown in the payment of on-calls. In the calculation elements, the cost of health services is also paid by the institution to those operators who do not carry out on-calls at all, since they are open or work during the day from Monday to Friday. In this case, it is tax money, so it is of utmost importance how these funds are treated. In the view of the applicants, the institution also did not publish contracts with health service providers in public, nor did it present the methodology for the final calculation for each individual operator on a secondary level separately, but it never explained individual items. It is the responsibility of the Institute to supervise health service providers. However, such supervision is not fully exercised, as the Court of Auditors has also pointed out. In the opinion of the applicant, the Authority does not publish the amount of controls by public authorities and concessionaires, but should do so in order to increase the transparency of business. In 2012, the Court of Auditors found that the Institute had shown amounts that did not have a legal basis in its prescriptions during its obligations to pharmacies in 2010. Pharmacies have accounted for the wrong prices of medicines and the doctor’s codes on some prescriptions have no longer been valid. We are also asked why the Department of Health Insurance does not exercise control over emergency rescue services, as in 2013 it exceeded the planned value of services by 218%. As a rule, contracting authorities should only order these transports for operators established in the same place as the contracting authority. And the CEO's response was that there was no supervision, because it was expensive that the institution did not have sufficient resources and resources. Unfortunately, however, we cannot accept such an apology in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And from all of this, we can conclude that there is a very urgent need for a system-wide organisational change in legislation, supervision, it is said, to increase control and, of course, a change in the direction of increasing the responsibility of the management of the institution. We will support the recommendation in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello again! In health care, in fact, in the last decade and more, there are problems that we have been alerted to and that we feel more and more like patients. There are many reasons for this and they cannot be attributed to one institution itself or to its potential monopoly, inefficiency of work or poor control. The health problems are primarily due to demographic changes and related increases in chronic non-communicable diseases, the development of medicine, pharmacies, technological progress, and not least identified irregularities, and in some ways you survive the legislation and severe economic crises of previous years. And the latter has further increased the big gap between what we expect from health care and what we can finance or for what we can provide. And of course, before we know it, we will be able to start solving the accumulated health problems. In doing so, we can understand the proposaler's desire to be more transparent and to control the funds spent, after the introduction of reasonable standards and standards, while at the same time agreeing with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposals of the recommendations go beyond the legislative framework of the tasks of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and that such a proposal does not respect the principle of the division of power. Otherwise, good recommendations are largely not addressed to the right address and also reflect insufficient knowledge of the role and competences of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, if we are already talking and it is a topic of this institution. But the fact remains that a change in the way health funding is financed is necessary. Otherwise, from day to day we will face more rights that we will actually have more on paper than in our daily lives. The health partnership system needs to be changed. An outdated and non-stimulating system is also a system of accounting for hospital services and evaluation of outpatient services, which leads only to less accessibility and longer waiting periods, which we will not solve only with additional money. Instead of a good and efficient work, we finance more or less individual operators' capacities, and the public sector's pay system does not encourage better, more efficient, safer work. I could list a lot more, but there are already enough reasons for the changes, which do not apply only to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. At the same time, each participant must assume his part of the responsibility, first of all the policy, and, of course, also the management of public institutions and not least the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. However, it is necessary to know that the powers of each of these are clear and also legally defined and cannot be exceeded and restricted or extended to other areas. Therefore, our Group is unitedly in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We are looking at the recommendations of the Institute for Health Insurance prepared by the New Slovenia Group. We will not support the Social Democrats' recommendations because, as already noted by the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, they are inadequate and exceed the legal framework of the respective institutions. In accordance with the principle of the division of power set out in Article 3 of the Constitution, the National Assembly may consider and take decisions only in respect of matters within its competence, which means that it cannot deal with and take decisions which are within the exclusive competence of other branches of authority or other State bodies. Proposalers with content of recommendations to try to reach the Government's conclusions are putting the National Assembly in the position of the Government. Such conduct is controversial, however, because it does not have a legal basis in the current legislation and constitutes an intervention by the National Assembly in the power and work of the Government. The recommendations are also controversial in terms of determining the obligation of institutions to prepare systemic solutions for the transparent implementation of certain tasks managed by the institution under the Health and Health Insurance Act, which are legal matter. In other words, it means that the powers and tasks of the institution are exceeded by the statutory framework. We all agree that our health system needs ventilation. There are a lot of problems that need to be addressed. On the funding side, we have a socially unjustified supplementary health insurance, which, despite the general lack of health funding, brings easy profits. On the part of the organisation of health activities, we have allowed uncontrolled interference between public and private health activities, especially in the form of reckless award of concessions. At the same time, we are overly neglecting the primary level of healthcare. The problems that we all agree to be solved cannot be resolved overnight and in the way that the proponents have suggested. The design of health policy is under the responsibility of the Ministry, which must prepare a health reform. The necessary basis for health reform is a comprehensive analysis of the health system, based also on the preparation of systemic solutions for greater transparency in health payments. So far, Slovenia has failed to implement reforms that would modernise our health system and ensure its long-term sustainability. We believe that reform must be such as to ensure a system of health care that is effective, qualitative, dependent and sustainable, based on the tradition of solidarity, reciprocity and justice and will aim at preventing and early detection of disease and effective treatment. Such a health system is one of the foundations of the social state for us. Social Democrats cannot agree to neoliberal logic, which health also understands as market goods. For us, health is public health and therefore cannot be subject to the law of the market. Privatisation of the healthcare system and the equalization of public and private health care leads to unequal treatment of patients, which means differentiated quality according to the patient’s social situation and unequal accessibility. In this healthcare mandate, the ruling coalition must take a step forward and strongly guide the Slovenian health system towards solidarity, the provision of funds and the effective implementation of public health activities. Social Democrats will continue to insist that we need fair and solidarity public health. With the good organisation of public health activities and the prevention of corruption and clienteleism, we will achieve effective and all equally accessible health services. The healthcare system must be in the service of ensuring the health of all individuals and individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u107	President, thank you very much for your word. These recommendations need to be discussed in context. Let us recall that the coalition agreement explicitly obliges government parties to strengthen the public health system through reform, to restrict the private sector and to eliminate inefficient and unjustly complementary health insurance. This is far from self-evident. We know that these promises reach at least in 2003 when Kebra’s White Paper was published. On the other hand, there has been another health reform on the table for some time, which provides for the commercialisation of compulsory health insurance, the liberalisation of the delivery of health services and the reduction of the health rights basket. Protagonists of this second scenario of privatization and commercialisation of health care have so far successfully blocked the progress of public health and health insurance. It is true, however, that the reform in favour of the public system has never been as explicitly exposed as in the coalition agreement of this Government, which we support in this part of the United Left. Therefore, we are not surprised when we encounter lobbying and various campaigns by private insurance companies and parts of the healthcare industry, which are trying to discredit the public health system in general and the Health Insurance Institute in particular. In doing so, they exploit the indecisiveness of the Government, in particular the President of the Government, in order to clearly stand behind their own coalition programmes. For reasons that I will come to a little later, today's debate also seems to have a rather similar purpose. Before I touch on this issue, however, I must respond to the statement made by the President of the Government a month ago by this speaker, because this directly touches on the content of the proposed recommendations. In particular, the Prime Minister of the Government said our health system was imported. Now, if you say the system is loaded, it means that this system has nothing to do with irregularities, but it has a structural flaw. And there is, of course, the heart of the problem. These too would like to convince us that everything is wrong with this health system. And when the President of the Government begins to repeat this, I fear that he does not understand his own promises made in the coalition contract or that the Government is already giving in to insurance and medical interests at the expense of 99% of the population who are livingly dependent on the public health system. The reform promised in the coalition agreement is the upgrade of the current public system, which is basically true, is basically good. The problem is that since 1991 his funds have been declining and he has been commercialized. If the Prime Minister doesn't understand this, then I don't know how he's gonna do what he's committed to and what he promised. Therefore, these recommendations, although not supported in the United Left, are useful in some way. They force the government and coalition to define their own promises regarding health rights and public health. If I move to the content of the proposed recommendations, of course, I cannot go beyond the conclusion of the Legislative and Legal Service that these recommendations to the Health Insurance Office impose tasks for which this institution is not actually competent. This applies mainly to points 2 and 3. The National Assembly is expected to recommend to the Office that by 30 June, it prepare a system-wide solution for the transparency of healthcare payments and a system-wide solution for transparent supervision. However, it is clear from the explanation that the applicant himself is well aware that the scope of the programme and the price of services are determined in the context of the negotiations. The manner of these negotiations is laid down in Article 63 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. Any major changes can only be made at the level of law and the results of these negotiations are not in the hands of the institution, the institution is only one of the partners involved in this arrangement, the other partners are the Performing Associations, is the Medical Chamber and the Ministry of Health. In the event that an agreement is not reached, the government will eventually decide, for example, what happened just last year. In short, if what is before us today is actually a well-intentioned call, as the motioner says it is, it should be addressed to all partners or the government should be asked to make a change of law. In view of the fact that these activities are already in progress according to the Government’s assurances, the recommendation is in fact irrelevant. The question is, of course, what should be the changes, but a little later. With regard to the amended 1st point in order for the institution to draw up standards and standards in accordance with Article 26 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, it should first be noted that there are two types of legislation. One is staff regulations that determine how much work nurses and doctors have to do within a certain period of time. We know that one of Fides’ verbal requirements is that it is known that housing organizations have produced two blue books, one for doctors, the other for sisters, and these are not the norm set out in Article 26. This means that it becomes an irrelevant argument in explanation of the proposal that the institution must prepare these standards, because individual health professions have already begun to draw up these same standards themselves. In short, human resources standards determine how many nurses must be at a certain site, how many hours a doctor can work in an operating room. However, the standards referred to in Article 26 refer to such things as whether the compulsory insurance covers a white or a silver seal. This is defined in the mandatory health insurance rules and in part also in the general arrangements. And here we are not qualified to judge whether these standards are comprehensive enough or not. However, the fact is that, on the basis of these standards, a general agreement is adopted each year and that the health activity is more or less normal. Without the consent of the Minister of Health, no general agreement has been confirmed and no financial plan of the institution has been approved without the consent of the Government, so we cannot support the recommendation that the institution implement the Government's five-year old decisions if these conclusions do not specify what is in particular wrong with the existing standards, what and where specific shortcomings are. The government is currently carrying out an analysis of accounting models and other measures to improve the pricing and programming arrangements. The institution is also involved in these preparations, so it would be rather pointless for the institution to insist that it prepares the same standards on its own, even within an extremely short period of 40 days. If I can sum it up. These recommendations impose on the Office tasks for which they are not legally competent or irrelevant because they are prepared by the Government in the context of their analysis. I hope that the Government is preparing them in accordance with the promises of its coalition treaty, but not in this direction, as indicated by the recommendations before us. The proposaler, in his explanation for point 1, says that without establishing standards and standards, I quote, "there is no next necessary step that will transparently and equally address the basket of health rights," the end of the quote. And it's in this bush that the rabbit is hiding. I told you before, we have two reforms on the table. When talking about health insurance, it is therefore necessary to determine whether we are in favour of abolishing supplementary health insurance and transferring it in the form of a public benefit to the compulsory insurance framework. In this way, all compulsory health insurance rights for patients would be free of charge, while in the form of a duty, each would contribute according to its capacity. The World Health Organisation rightly warns that the system of payments makes it impossible for poorer people to access health. Complementary insurance is not a solution because it's still too expensive for a lot of people. In 2003, a survey showed that 5% of the population were without supplementary insurance. Otherwise, such a system is unfair to those who can afford it simply because the premium is the same, regardless of whether a person receives a minimum wage or whether that person receives a salary that is appropriate, for example, a director’s function. The additional problem is that such a system is extremely ineffective. Insurance companies compete for insurance companies, which brings them a lot of costs. Their operating costs are around 10%, the institution has these costs by 1.8%. If we give this 10% of the operating costs of private insurance companies that insurance companies still have to make a profit, we come to the fact that insurance companies unduly end up with about 40 to 50 million of our common assets, which our healthcare system would still need very bloodyly. Therefore, it is normal for the Government to push for the abolition of supplementary health insurance. It is also understandable that private insurance companies resist this. A wide line of medical organisations led by FIDES has been formed requiring the competition of insurance undertakings in the field of compulsory insurance. The commercialisation scenarios can be read in the strategic directions of Slovenian health care to come out of the crisis. First, it reduces the basket of rights. One part of the rights is transferred to other social registers and the other rights are simply deleted. These services then become goods, must be paid out of the pocket or made additional insurance. This measure would undoubtedly increase inequalities in access to health and would benefit exclusively financial capital, in this case to insurance companies. But that's not all. The remaining rights would be divided into baskets A and B. In basket A, there would remain complex services that remain in the public system and are directly covered by the institution. Less demanding services, which are also more profitable, would go to basket B. These services would be paid by the patient himself or paid by his private insurance company and should be reimbursed by the institution to the standard price. Isn't this a great new world for private insurance companies to pick up cream nicely and for private contractors to receive state subsidies. Insurance companies will immediately be able to terminate the supplementary insurance because this would give them compulsory contractual insurance and additional insurance for rights flying from the basket of rights. But what is good for insurance capital is, of course, bad for patients, especially for holiday workers, low-paid workers, unemployed workers, pensioners and so on. Therefore, in the United Left we are absolutely against any resolution of the basket of rights as provided for in these recommendations. Justice must be maintained and, if possible, disseminated. We are also absolutely against commercialisation of health insurance, in commercial health insurance simply have nothing to look for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u109	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the seriousness of the situation in which our health system is located. We all agree, and we are already repeating in this that a thorough overhaul is needed. Since the key legislative proposals for reform of the health system by the Government are not yet in place, we have decided that, through the proposals, we can make recommendations to the largest and only health treasury managed by the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance and thus try to speed up the implementation of the commitments already made by other authorities. In Novi Slovenije we wanted the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia to take into account recommendations relating to the preparation of standards and standards in accordance with Article 26 of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. This recommendation does not contain anything new, since the past governments have imposed on insurance companies, since 2010, on the consideration of the CFSP business plan, on the preparation of standards and standards of services and other compulsory health insurance rights, which are the basis for determining the prices of health services. Any communication by the Director of the insurance undertaking that these standards and standards already exist, or once again, that the CFSP is not competent to prepare them, shall be unacceptable. The National Assembly can only accept recommendations, i.e. an optional act, while the Government's decisions have a completely different, binding salary. Without the receipt of standards and standards that result in the transformation of the basket of health rights, no additional measure can be fair to all insurers and we will never get more than a repeated attempt to amend health legislation. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the Government is responsible for the preparation of the reform legislation of the healthcare system, but this does not mean that the role and co-responsibility of the Health Insurance Office should not be discussed. It must be recognised that the system of pricing and payment of services to healthcare providers is impractical. This further complicates the incomplete information system, resulting in excessive paperwork and, consequently, in the Court of Auditors' findings, multiple payments of the same services. The health of all citizens is in the hands of one and only financier, which is the ZZS, which is a unique one in the European space. The supervision of the Department of Health Insurance is weak. Many times, she's controlling herself. The Health Insurance Office still has a lot of unfinished work in the field of transparency and control over the travel and delivery of services as well as other legislation. Let us reinforce this by the fact that the Institute of Health Insurance started with the first recovery of a specialist doctor who should have returned to the region but did not start last year, although the law has been in force since 2003. Of course this Department of Health Insurance did not start on its own initiative, but because of the pressure and persistence of both the Medical Chambers and the Ministry of Health. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree that the proposed recommendations of the ZZS are not necessary and current, as the consequences of the non-functional health system are increasingly felt by citizens by extending waiting types and reducing the quality of health services, medical equipment and supplies, despite the great efforts of doctors and health workers. It's time for change.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u111	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Health is the universal value and fundamental right of every individual, and it is of course essential that the country with an appropriate health policy strives to improve the availability and quality of services in public health. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance acts as a public institution that manages the means of compulsory health insurance for all citizens and must therefore act on the principles of social justice and solidarity. A number of calls by health service beneficiaries as well as operators and the professional public, i.e. the Medical Chambers of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society, FIDES and so on, point out that the quality or standard of health services is being reduced dangerously and the system needs to be reorganised. Both the Health and Health Insurance Act and the ZZS Statute define the task of preparing standards and standards, which it does not implement. He was also invited by the Government, for the first time in 2010, in 2011 and again in 2013. We know that the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance also warns the Court of Auditors about the non-transparency of payments, and it is right that we are also concerned about these issues in the National Assembly, which plays a key role in the creation of new policies. However, the limits of competence must be clearly separated. We believe that the proposal for a recommendation interferes with the principle of power-sharing, since the National Assembly as a legislative body does not have the authority to call on the institution to take into account the decisions taken by the Government as an executive body. We also believe that the recommendation by calling for systemic solutions is inappropriate, as it is a solution that affects the entire health system and therefore all coordination and guidance must be carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. We have repeatedly expressed disagreement with the functioning and operation of the Health Insurance Office in the Modern Centre Party, which we have recently made clear by not supporting the candidate for director of the ZZZS. However, in view of the substantive concerns about the appropriateness and legality of the proposed recommendations, to which the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service refer in their opinion, and in the light of the debate held at the 4th regular meeting of the Health Committee on 6. 5. The SMC Group takes the view that the proposal for a recommendation to the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance concerning the failure to implement government decisions, greater transparency of payments and the preparation of system-wide solutions for effective supervision of the implementation of health services prepared by the proposer is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with a team, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the easiest thing is, we are not responsible, we do not have jurisdiction, we do not have legal powers, and so on, what we are saying today may indeed be true in this context. However, we are certainly on the same track, just in what Comrade Zorman has said and reminded us all that the Director of the Health Insurance Institute here in the National Assembly has not received support, in fact this debate, which we are going to have today, I hope to have done well. We've been doing a lot of work with the health system and we've been working for quite some time within our team for the future or after our own government in the shadow. We have done much of this before last year's elections, and we have also written very clearly into our electoral programme, what we believe would be necessary to do in terms of health reforms or health reform in order to remedy the actual health situation in Slovenia and raise it to some comparable European level. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a specialist, I'm not a diagnostic, but I can tell you that the health system in Slovenia is seriously ill. Now, for the record, there's no criticism of the presence of the esteemed minister and her team. We have been finding for some time that we are not able to make reforms, although I am sure that there is so much expertise in the ministry, and perhaps there is somewhere else that only a little more political will and realisation should be needed. And that would be called health reform. Before I go on, maybe something about the financing itself, if we're talking about a health insurance company. The first fact is that work is relatively high in Slovenia. The rate of employee contributions shall be 22,1 % on gross salary and shall be the highest among the OECD countries. It's an alarm. That's the reason for the alarm. Secondly, the existing health system is not publicly sustainable in the long term, for public finances will be a challenge, for the first time, how to cover the primary financial deficit in health care, for the second time, how to cover the additional deficit when the supplementary health insurance is eventually abolished, which is somehow announced, and for the third time how to provide the necessary funds for the pension system and the long-term care system, which is also the content on the table. Thirdly, health reform must take place at several levels. This isn't just about changing one law. It will probably be necessary, after our understanding, to amend a number of laws that will then have to be in force on the same date. Thus, health reform cannot only take place on the side of resources. And the following conclusion, health reform should take place at the same time as changes in the pension system and the long-term care system. That's what we wrote in our program. We've been through this a lot. Of course, this knowledge, at least we don't have it all, so of course we went to consult the smart ones who are handling it. We trusted them and wrote this down in our publicly accessible program. If I can only quantify social security contributions in Slovenia a little longer, because I was talking about the relatively high taxation of work in Slovenia. Let's see, for pension and disability insurance, workers are paid from a gross salary of 15.5%, and employers, of course, 8.85% gross, i.e. a total of 24.35%. And what we are interested in today is compulsory health insurance – of course we have in mind the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance – and workers, to remind us, are paid from a gross salary of 6.36% and employers of 7.09%, that is 13.45% is the rate of contribution on gross wages. Then, of course, we still have contributions for employment and parental protection. And below the line, we pay, as has already been said, 22.1% on gross wages, while employers have an additional 16.1% and a total of 38.2% on gross wages. Extremely high labour burdens or gross wages, but colleagues and colleagues, reform is not likely to work only on the basis of the financial segment. Money isn't everything. Money is not everything, so we are talking about legislation, so we are talking about the urgently needed reorganisation. We must also agree once in this country that, of course, yes, I agree, health is public good or ours, my personal well-being. That's the greatest value. If I'm not healthy, then everything else doesn't really work for me. We probably also need to change our thinking a little bit about private clinics. How many have we had in Slovenia? It's an interesting website. When I was preparing for this debate, I went to take a look. Very quickly you Google it and find it, a website where you talk about Top Private Hospitals in Europe, it is said, a top private hospital in Europe. When you go to see this, you think, "It's not all bad, it's private." Why should we, ladies and gentlemen, with public money that we do not have for a long time, build buildings, why we should invest public money in walls, why we should not trust it and leave it to private people, and in this way we would certainly be burdened by public or state treasury. But we probably won't get to the end here today. It is already in the definition that public health is, of course, composed, in our understanding, of public and private health. The private one must, of course, be under a lush eye, under control, because unfortunately today this control here is limping, if I'm so diplomatic, because otherwise in the health system it's limping and somewhere else, but today we're talking about it because otherwise we wouldn't have so many leeches stuck on this health system that we all agree on, but we're not diagnostics that he's sick. A few facts about health as a value. Of course, health is one of the greatest goods and values for humans. This is probably where all 90 of us agree. But it is true that we are only aware of this when we are sick when we wait in line for a few months, I hope not for years to replace any number of our knees or organs. And when we get sick, any waiting time and uncertainty is a menace, a horror for the patient. The fact is, waiting tables are unnecessary. With the days of waiting for treatment, watch this, smart people have calculated it, and from the days of waiting for treatment exponentially increases the cost of final healing. Expensive. Some other time about numbers. And what are our answers for the future for the health system? As it is said, we have already done a lot of work in the pre-election programme, and we have outlined the basic urgent procedures that need to be addressed immediately. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister here and ask that we do not have time to go into the implementation of reforms immediately. Look, we're almost there in the pre-election year. We never know when the pre-election year is, and in the pre-election year, you can't accept any reforms, nothing at all. Perhaps some cosmetic adjustments, which do not produce positive effects, are previously negative. So here's our first appeal from today's debate, let's step together and get into action, right now. Because of the lack of time and the fact that my colleagues are going to be discussing it, I'm going to be a little quick. What's the current situation? We have a public health network for public money, of course. As a matter of fact, private health is hardly a sample. We're still kind of afraid of privates. Like the last time I talked about private schools or about changing the Constitution regarding the school system. We are as afraid of the privates as we were in some previous regime when they told farmers that they should no longer have land than 10 hectares, and when a craftsman, a private man could only have five employees. Nonsense. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is actually a two-thirds payer, also a contract holder and a politician. Is that right? Is it right that a health insurance company is a politician? I don't think so. Administrative and financial-medical controls are imprecise, even without calls for proposals. And the inspection services of at least three ministries are not connected. Colleagues and colleagues! This debate is, in spite of the fact that it is legally clear to it, more specifically to our recommendations, that we are legally-formal, that we do not have the power to say anything or to recommend to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, but I think that this is a draft debate, a broader debate, which must be led, I hope that as soon as possible, by the government, by the coalition. It needs to be focused on some health reform. This must be a systematic debate that will, of course, end up giving not only some superficial conclusions, but also legal solutions with concrete solutions. And I wish, the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats are here ready, even with our expert committee, we are ready to help make this health reform that we need bloodyly, in fact, see the light of the world as soon as possible and that in fact our people, our patients, would have some of it. All the money we direct to health care should only serve the patient, the patient. It's exclusive. And if that leads, perhaps and certainly there is another one, it is already one of the leaders who must accompany us through the debate on health reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you. I may be able to direct the debate differently, given what I have just heard. Of course, I come from the view that we have very good health care, especially very well given what we are investing in it. And I am sure that it would be extremely difficult to find a health system that is on one side to this extent effective and for which so little money is devoted to the population as Slovenia is committed. It is, of course, easy to promote private institutions, but we have not heard of the prices, the profits generated there. And it's only by comparing our neighbouring country, Austria, that there are many facts. We're earmarking for health care for a good $2,000 a year, and Austria for over $5,000. We give prescription drugs practically, I can say for free, every prescription costs, I don't know, 15 euros for a baby, a pregnant woman, a cancer patient, anyone. In this work, of course, we are often compared with the uncomparable. The Slovenian health system still envy us a lot about the results, we talked about transplants earlier. And let's be realistic, for example, an effective comparison is to compare the health system with the economy in Slovenia. Look, for the first time after the efficiency of work – of course data exist, I do not think – is completely comparable to the developed countries in the field of health in Europe. So our efficiency is nothing less. In the economy, of course, it would be hard to say such things. In healthcare, most health institutions, especially hospitals that spend more money accredited, have met quality standards and so on. There are bright exceptions in the economy, but that's mostly not the case. There's a lot of work done in health care that no one pays for because there's no money. And, of course, this drink is worth paying for sooner than before. Any smart country would be happy to cover the loss of health care, I don't know, hundreds of millions, in order to keep the level of health services we have today for two thousand dollars per capita. But we can't do that because it just doesn't work that way. It is very nice to hear how we will promote rights on the one hand, on the other hand how we will introduce private health care. Please, with what? Of course, I don't defend the anomalies that are present in health care. We know that corruption is also present, and we know that there are irregularities. But, please, the allegations that we've been hearing for a year, two back about 500 million that disappear in health care, it's completely out of our minds. And anyone who knows a little about health care knows that it can't be that way. We can talk about tens, twentys, thirty million, which is huge and unacceptable, but that doesn't solve the health problem. Thus, of course, it is not easy to simplify in this way. It is a fact, of course, that health reform is necessary. Because if we want to serve in the long term, if I say badly, the services that people get, the ageing of the population, the new diseases, the new technologies, the new methods, while we're running out of money today, of course we won't be able to do without it. No reform moving money from the left to the right pocket will ensure that. And believe me again, private health, I'm a public health advocate, but it's more expensive. Public health doesn't work on the level and on the principle of profit. That's a fact. And Slovenia, again today, if I compare with the economy, see, the number of healthcare workers doing comparable work is significantly lower than the average in Europe, the average number of nurses not to mention doctors on the tail. So it would be difficult to tell health care that it works ineffectively or that it works poorly because we have some waiting days that result from the lack of money and because there are no people who can do this work. Hospitals have a loss because they go beyond work programmes, they can also work to some extent and lead inefficient institutions, but the fact is they work rationally. Once again, there is no country that would offer what we are, for the money we spend on health care. And to sell other solutions here, of course, that will solve the problems, I don't know, from privatisations and the rest in health, please don't hold. And as soon as that's clear, it'll be easier. It will only be up to us to find and somehow provide additional money to retain the rights that we have today and that we want and that we are defending. And to report to the Department of Health Insurance that he has some losses, it's ridiculous. The Health Insurance Office is a service that also operates on the basis of a Stability Pact which must not be indebted. He simply has as much money as he has, and he distributes it as much as he has. And it's not in the healthcare system where the bill is open and will be paid for everything that health care is capable of doing. It's not like that. Let us therefore try to be realistic in these aspects and desires of what health care can do, and realize that solutions are not as simple as some want to show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Pojbič has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u117	Dear Mr. Vice President! These discussions today, when I listen to them, not only today, but we have been discussing this health system for a long time now, I think that money in the system itself would certainly be essential if we did not have so many networks, uncles and all those thieves in this health system who, on every matter purchased or ordered and so on, put their whistleblower down. And if there's no health care, if those responsible in this health system don't cut through this shit and stop those who get rich and live super on that account, the question is whether and how much money will go around in the health system. I am sure that Slovenian taxpayers pay no matter what you have just said to Mr Gantar if we compare Austria and so on, but you must know that in Austria, the average worker has a thousand 300 or a thousand 500 euros in wages, and with us 600, a lot of people are already on minimum wage. And you can't expect if the money doesn't come into the cash register, then you can pay so much out of it. That's to be understood. Easy. So, first of all, we need to clear up our logic. First, we need to know whether and in what way we will do what is essential, that people have money and will be able to pay more into the state budget, into the health treasury and into the pension. And if we do not succeed on the side that is the basis and the key to being able to talk about some better, greater, higher prosperity, then all the discussions here are not in place, at least not in a way that we can talk about some better, better, longer-term solutions. Everyone who has debated here today, and everyone I've listened to, almost everything, is saying the same thing as I think. Our health system actually works badly. It looks bad. And the representatives of the Ministry may also speak, as well as certain representatives here in the National Assembly, that this is not the case. I think it would be more important and more important to ask what patients think about it. When you ask patients, most of them, they'll tell you what I'm saying, not what the Ministry says, and what individual representatives say here in the National Assembly. They won't say that. They have a million problems when they face their health problems, a million problems. Today the waiting species have been mentioned and so on, we do not talk about it at all. Today, the Minister said that the proposal for a recommendation was inadequately addressing the problem because it exceeded its powers. I agree with that. I agree with this, but New Slovenia has made these recommendations with one other reason to wake up the ministry from sleep, this government of the Republic of Slovenia from sleep, to start preparing appropriate solutions, not to come here, but to do so, we should do so, we will do so and so on, but at the end of no concrete steps, we have no concrete proposals in the National Assembly from the Ministry of Health. And the Minister and her representatives also know that not everything in our system is what it should be and that action should be taken immediately. Take action now. But look, almost a year ago, this government of Mira Cerar is here now. Are we waiting for this government to execute your mandate? You're waiting for me to execute your mandate, so you're in these positions to receive your wages and enjoy yourselves as little gods? It'll be four years and the story will be over, nothing and so on and so forth. You've been here a year. The government of Janez Janša made in a year remember how many reforms? Look, in one year. And don't tell me that in one year. [[…]] What have you done so far? What did you do? Tell me, I don't care, I don't have a problem. I support and would defend the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also coalition if things were to go in the right direction. If things were to go in the right direction, I would be extremely pleased, extremely happy or most happy in this country. It's the hardest thing for me to do is keep criticizing all the time. But look, we have to if nothing happens. Nothing happens. Yeah, well, that's okay, the next term will see who's gonna laugh or who's gonna laugh at them. Madam Minister said that the Ministry of Health is responsible for preparing systemic solutions. Of course, because we know that, we don't have to say that. But, Madam Secretary, we expect you to make proposals for marriages on the table, not throw us such stupid flossules, because we all know, but we're not in the National Assembly without knowing what the Ministry's job is. He probably doesn't sit here in this national council, at least he shouldn't sit down because it's all wrong. And please, when you talk about it, I expected you to say, look, yeah, what New Slovenia has invested is wrong, and we have a solution, this, this, this, and we would throw it on the table and come up with solutions today and it would be all right. I would say, see, next week we will introduce this law, this law, this law, and this law into parliamentary procedure, and we will solve this problem, this problem, this problem and this problem. And everything would be great, and everyone would be okay. But that you always talk only, yes, and like I said today, I won't say it a hundred times. [[…]] And we also received today or yesterday at the table a letter, an open letter to Slovenian politics and the Slovenian public. It was written by the Society for the Health of the Nation. And I'll read that you'll know what they wrote. "The Society for the Health of the Nation is organised for the reason that the Slovenian health system is regulated according to the extent of users. The movement for the health of the nation is firmly determined to protect the health system so far and to take immediate care of measures to improve this system in order to make life in our country worth living, to protect the already ill citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to prevent the breakdown of the health system, to ensure that the weak and older citizens are taken care of by the younger generation, to make their lives better and better, to put in place a proper strategy for the prevention of diseases, to ensure adequate, fair and transparent payment of health services, to comply with the guidelines for the development of the health system, as proposed by doctors, joined in medical organisations, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian Medical Society and Fides, and for the ninth time being to place competent people who are not party-related. Discussions from the meetings of the National Assembly show the incompetence of the Ministry of Health management and therefore it is essential to approach the immediate resolution of the problem, the allocation of work and responsibility and the daily monitoring of the results of the work. In view of the above, our proposals are as follows. Immediate structural changes and health reform are essential. The standards and standards prepared by Slovenian doctors within the Slovenian Medical Chamber and the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana need immediate confirmation. It is necessary to organise transparent, fair and timely payment of health services and quality control in accordance with standards. Equal pay to all service providers should be ensured for equal health services. We propose that the Ministry of Health terminates contracts with harmful advisers, which cost 600,000 euros in health bills. It is necessary to follow that strategy which is prepared in the framework of the Slovenian Medical Chamber and the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana. This document, which cost taxpayers 50,000 euros, is professionally prepared for implementation and operation. It is necessary to stop the poor management of the construction of health facilities throughout Slovenia, as corruption and the use of public money are prevented. We propose that the construction of medical facilities be carried out on the basis of project documentation within the envisaged deadlines, without additional annexes and additional costs, and that regular supervision of the construction and use of public funds be ensured. The situation is subject to objective responsibility by the President of the Government and it is therefore necessary to immediately establish all mechanisms to address the problem. We expect that the Prime Minister of the Government will personally stand up for the recruitment of competent people at the Ministry of Trees according to the principle of the old Slovenian saying Le shoe should be ordered by the Footman and leave to the management of the Ministry of Health to the physicians." The open letter was sent on the basis of a decision of the Management Committee of the Society for National Health of 12. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am sure, Madam Minister, that you have received this letter too, because you are also among the above mentioned, and there are many important things written here. And I'd expect that to worry you a little bit. I'm worried when I listen to this. I'm sure it wasn't written by a complete layman who didn't get to know each other on the health system. I'm sure of it. And those who have written this down certainly, if they have sent this in writing to the President of the Government and the Minister and so on, they stand behind it and certainly have the appropriate arguments for it. Definitely. I'm sure of that. The role of the National Assembly, as well as this proposal of New Slovenia today, is, according to my assessment, entirely on the ground, because it is imperative to press on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the sleep or awakening phase, perhaps awakening, we will see in a further period of time that we will start to really work and solve problems. The problems we face every day. And we're not just going to read and listen to Marble how to burden the economy with new taxes and so on and absolutely nothing else. This is certainly not what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expected from this government, from these new faces. And I am sure that the government has already consolidated enough after one year, but now the moment has come for them to start coming to the table with quality concrete proposals for laws that will adequately address this problem. I am also sure and I wonder if we really need to destroy everything in this country before we sober up. Why am I saying this? Look where we've brought Pahor's government, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mir Cerar, where they've brought as far as the country's debt is concerned. Where? If you had listened to the President of the Court of Auditors yesterday, at least I would expect that any of us here in this House should be deeply concerned. I hope you're following what competent people say. And you know what this will have to do, he said what he'll have to do with it. And see, below, instead of helping the economy, we're diving it over and over again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u118	Mr. Pojbich, you can go back to health, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u119	Yeah, I'll be right back. [[…]] In this country, obviously all these socialist governments have the goal of destroying all subsystems in order to get on the real ground once. And then again, those who continue for all that happens to us in this country of badness try to put on, we will have to exercise in our hands and start to really solve the real problems of Slovenian society. For this, certainly citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia did not choose new faces in these national elections, and I hope that I am wrong here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, one more time. Slovenia gives more than half less money per person per person for health care, and where is this difference. So we buy the same materials, we have the same drugs, we have the same ones, we have the same ones, and it can only go to the expense of healthcare personnel, which is significantly less and is less paid. And when we adopt the standards and standards that I think are justified because colleagues work hard to this extent, this money will be further insufficient. And that's probably where we need to look at it. And he pays what he is like in Austria and what he is like in Slovenia, he probably has no particular purpose in stressing these differences.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u123	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am very happy about these discussions because I think it is good and, above all, I see these conceptual differences between one side and the other. In fact, there are two different views of what the Slovenian health system would look like. And I like this so that citizens and citizens can see which system could be better, which could be worse. And I am sure that this system, which we are defending in New Slovenia, is a system that responds to the key needs of Slovenian health right now. I would also like to thank Mrs Minister, who has actually attached herself to the content of our recommendations. In fact, the Government agrees with the recommendations; the problem is therefore merely the adequacy, legal adequacy, the adequacy of the act itself. Mr Gantar, former Minister of Health, also spoke in this direction. For this reason, I call on you, because we can sit down and get a satisfactory legal framework, let us take one step towards health reform. If we are already in the legal framework and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, respected colleagues and colleagues, I ask you how many times have you voted against the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in this reference to the National Assembly? How many times? You know a big case when the Constitutional Court also slapped you because you didn't listen to the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. That's why we don't be Pharisees. It wouldn't be Pharisees to knock on your chest. Because you have not listened to the Legislative and Legal Service – I agree, I respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service – this is why you have taken away the mandate of one Member. But let's leave it at the side, it's gone, so don't be too smart, you could say slang. If I move on. Standards and standards. The key question in this story is how can an institution operating in the country and operating with 2.3 billion euros not respect the Government's conclusions. Do you imagine that any state authority would disregard the government's decisions? I really don't see it. If I don't respect a certain law, I'm being punished. If I drive too fast, I'm grounded. Is that right? Yeah, that's right. And that goes for all of us. As a result, we have made this our first recommendation to respect the Government's conclusions. Yeah, well, where do we come from if we don't respect the executive branch? Moreover, the first representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, Mr Fakin, at the third call of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to respect the Government's conclusions, said: "You will see the devil if this is done." Yes, is that any response from the High Representative of the ZZ? No wonder he only got one vote in the National Assembly the third time he was running for president. It is a matter of non-compliance with the Government's conclusions that the first indicator is that something with this large organisation such as the ZZS is seriously wrong and that a thorough overhaul of this organisation is needed. Further – financing. See, in today’s world, it is very unusual that a person does not know how much he pays for a particular service and that this service is charged from hospital to hospital differently. How is that possible? I don't know. What is this system that we have for one thing in Isol hospital such prices, in another hospital for the same thing for another price. I understand about the Clinical Center, because they have even more difficult things and therefore they may be different prices, but, kindly please, some system should be where the same rules would apply to all residents of the Republic of Slovenia, rules that would be clear. Further, when we are in funding, let me also mention hospitals and business in losses You know, it is sad to see a Slovenian public institution, such as a hospital which should be a guarantor, some good business marriage to drown in losses. [[…]] It's not because of me or you, it's because of patients who have to go to hospitals like this when they get sick. When we get sick, there's a problem. What wedding to feel safe in an institution that deals with 200 000 euros of loss, what good health marriage is such an institution where there is no good master? On the other hand, as I said before, we have the ZZZS this year, which operates and boasts about millions of profits. Good health system! As far as funding is concerned, the system of agreement itself. Look, no patient or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia knows the agreement of this system if it does not deepen. This is a major problem for us to have a system of agreement, a system of plans, not a system of actual realization. This is one of the key problems of the Slovenian healthcare system to agree on what we will do, how much it will cost, how much a service will be, how much we will pay for a service and so on. And that, once again, in different institutions of the same service they have different prices – yes, "only in Slovenia", I apologize. Regarding supervision – on the Health Committee, we ourselves discussed the system of supervision regarding emergency rescue services, when emergency rescue services increased by 218% from the plan that was set up. There are no measures in this area to make this happen or to make this right. Moreover, this same committee has ordered this same institution, which exercises or is obliged to carry out the system of supervision of emergency rescue services, to report to the National Assembly on 30 March, how did the same members of the Health Committee receive this report? [[…]] No! No! Mr. Fakin didn't give it to you because he doesn't care. If he does not respect the decisions of the Government, why should he respect the commitments of the Committee of the National Assembly? How do you feel about Members when we vote on something and what we vote on is not taken into account? And then you come home and they ask you. Do you have any power at all? No, we don't actually have it! When asked who is stronger, the Ministry of Health, which operates with 100 million euros, or the ZZS with 2.3 billion euros – yes, because the answer is in hand! Colleagues and colleagues, let me continue with the monopoly; we are emerging Christian Democrats from a political direction and therefore we are also Christian Democrats when we claim that the monopoly is not good. And this can also be shown in specific cases. In practice. Tell me, if we only had one car insurance company – but I don't want to compare car insurance with health insurance – and it would set the price of 2 000 euros for your car insurance and you should give 2 000 euros for your car insurance. If we had two, which one would we go to? The one who's more expensive or the one who's cheaper and better? At least we'd have a choice of choice, and we could choose the auction. We could choose for ourselves cheaper, but now we have only one insurance company offering basic health insurance and so much cost and there are so many services. We don't have a choice. Thank you for such a market economy and for such freedom of decision. Where I'll be safe! One majority of the members of this National Assembly also belong to a political group in the European Parliament, ALDE, which is based on liberal guidelines. Read the liberal programmes of other political parties and you will see what competition means for the social market economy. As far as private and public is concerned. You know, we agree, public health needs to be strengthened, but at the same time not to close the private and restrict it. God does not allow us now to decide how to limit private health care, for waiting periods would probably double the waiting periods. When do you need private health care in the vast majority? When do citizens and citizens need it? When they get a warrant to come to this and this check or this and this X-ray in about six months and say that I'm going to die first, I'd rather go to the private, pay for it than have my back hurt. That's how it is! And you want private insurance, or you want private health care, or you want to take advantage of it. On the contrary, it is necessary to strengthen both publicly and to enable private people to develop their potential. Competition in this area, too, is advocated by Christian Democrats, and this should be advocated by you respected colleagues from the Modern Centre Party, at least after belonging to the European Parliament or the European political group. With regard to the other anomalies mentioned. I agree with the debate, and on several occasions I agree with Mr Gantar, the former Minister, also with today's debate, but on the basis of this debate, Mr Gantar, I do not really know what has led to this and what the reasons were for your resignation as Minister. I really don't know. Too bad I ran out of time to tell him, but you'll be in the lobby. I have a problem with understanding, because as a minister, you seemed good to me, and you mentioned various pressures. That's something the public could see. That anomalies occur in Slovenian medicine; one anomaly, which is nothing normal, is the case that is taking place these days, the case of Radan. The doctor, where we see that there are professional directors in the Clinical Center, does not want to take this responsibility for the problem that has taken place. Moreover, fellow journalists send press questions to the Clinical Center – they are unanswerable! Is that the only doctor in there who's supposed to do that? Furthermore, lobbying, corruption – it is not normal for me to have the lobbyist Mr. Zemljarič knock on the door of the Clinical Center several times a month. If that's normal for anyone, then I don't know if we live on the same planet. Lobbies, corruption, are also the crags of our health system. That raccoon. Remember the problem of operating tables and forwards, the Oncology Institute, the water supply. We act like we have piles and piles of money that we can throw out the window. This is what citizens and citizens can say, which are monitoring all the affairs that are taking place in the context of Slovenian health care. The call for greater value does not go away without being accompanied by a criminal investigation, suspicion of corruption, clientism and so on. Furthermore, I would touch on one important thing that will go on, but because I am already involved in corruption. Remember a one-month or 20-day minister, about a year ago, Mrs. Alenka Trop Skaza. That's all you can think of, and air conditioning, and make parallels. At that time, a 9 million-dollar climate contract was signed. Some then rightly wondered whether we had an ad hoc minister to sign the contract. That is why I do not agree with the idea that we have at the annual level, that it goes from the health system just like that through the window at the expense of corruption, to customerism only EUR 10 million. I'm saying there's more money. For this reason, it is valid to consider in the National Assembly a long-term commission of inquiry investigating systemic corruption in the Slovenian health system. Because in Slovenian health, corruption is actually rooted. It's part of the routine, part of the normality, and that's a mistake. Further – and I will conclude with this – two years ago, I also saw with my own eyes at two in the morning how the Slovenian health system works. By the time you get to the E.R., you're at the Clinical Center at 2:00, and you're in pain at about 8:00, when the doctors are already changing. That's when you actually start thinking about why I'm paying for it. Why is money being taken away from my salary for basic health care? Why am I paying for this, but if I'm waiting in the infirmary, there's a doctor's door, hours and hours. And I'm not a lonely case! I'm sure one of you in the hall might have had a similar experience. Once again, I stress the anomalies; for example, the long waiting lines that I have just mentioned, the long waiting periods, and I also asked the President of the Government, only the Minister in the past. Mr Fakin said that waiting periods will be reduced or no longer for certain services this year. I hope I can trust him, I want to. I just hope that this was just part of the campaign, that I will not be re-elected president or director of the ZZ. And then the operations for our youngest abroad. We have cardiology, cardiac surgery, where in recent times unacceptable things have actually been happening, and this will also need to be talked about by the National Assembly, either within the Health Committee. We expelled experts from our country who were really specialist in child heart surgery; czech, they were too expensive. And now we're sending children to operations abroad, to Munich for much larger amounts. And the question is whether the Health Insurance Office is covering the costs or whether the parents are forced to pay 10,000 euros on their own. Because the Institute of Health Insurance and experts at UKC Ljubljana claim that they are good enough to do a cut like that, but not like that. This will be one of the problems in the coming weeks. As a result, we have initiated today’s session or recommendations to draw attention to the systemic problems that are taking place in the healthcare system. We do not expect reform of Members and Members of New Slovenia, but citizens and citizens, because as long as you are healthy, the Slovenian health system is very good and effective. But once a person gets sick, the Slovenian health system is very bad. This is why the health system is reforming.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Gardener. You have appointed a number of people who cannot defend themselves, even for Mr Gantard, you know that he cannot replicate, and it was not exactly right. The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek, prepare for Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I did not prepare anything in advance because I expected that this debate, when it opens, would, in fact, be of a political nature. Indeed, we know that these decisions are not binding on the ZZS, so it is pointless to accept them here as well. We know that the government has adopted certain conclusions, we have heard that the ZZZ did not take them into account – this is unacceptable. Mr. Fakin did not arrange the things he should – it is also unacceptable, he did not receive support, and that one voice, as far as I know, was mistaken. But we're going back now. Now that I am listening to these discussions, in particular Members who have the longest internship in the National Assembly, how the Minister is sleeping today, the Ministry of Health is sleeping and the reforms are needed now, urgently and today. Yesterday! I am interested, however, in the fact that the Member appointed three governments and there was no name for Janez Janša, why their government did not make these reforms. As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I know for sure that these problems are not from today, these problems are from 15 years ago. Excuse me, all those of you who have sat here have not been able to do so; now, the question is why, but I think that everyone is clearly Particular interests in this country are so strong that we can never find a common goal. [[…]] Once again, I would like to point out that the financing of health services is designed in the form of the distribution of funds by health activity. The very basis for the allocation of funds is the overall indicative value of the entire agreed health service programme. In the Republic of Slovenia, it is only every year that they are reunited – important! – through a partnership agreement between the Ministry of Health, the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber, the Community of Slovenian Natural Health Centres, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia, the Pharmacy of Slovenia, the Community of Training Organisations and the ZZZS. Here, as we know, Mr Vrtovec, we also have social partners that are important. Maybe there's an answer here why we haven't been able to reconcile to this day, what is the goal we want to follow. I think here today we are doing wrong to the health system; we are doing wrong to doctors who are doing fairly and well and honestly deserve their money. Forgive me, words such as thieves, corruption in every place, everything that is signed is stolen – yes, I wrote myself, so you can look at who said that, thieves Mr. Pojbič used that word – they are truly unjust. [[…]] In this part, however, I join Dr. Gantar: with the money we have at our disposal, our health system is good. Really, we get a lot, I think we're giving the wrong message to the citizens here today, that everything is bad, that everyone is stealing and we're not doing well. Because with this money we have at our disposal, we are doing the best we can. Look. I'm going back to Austria because we talk to her a lot. On the one hand, Nova Slovenija says: wage taxation as well as contribution rates are too high, labour taxation is too high, let us lower to start the economy – 22% we have heard. On the other hand, we hear that this part, which we contribute in solidarity to basic health care, is one that actually finances about 70% of everything. But the rest comes from supplementary insurance, which really isn't solidarity. We need to agree – obviously we need to agree first – on how to bring more resources into this system if we want better services. There's no other way. And Austria, he mentioned, look, every recipe pays 5.3 euros. Every citizen pays 5.3 euros for every recipe, and wages are not five times higher than ours. Here's this comparison, but we have a social system, no one contributes to the recipe, so we destroy two tons of drugs, two tons of drugs a year. And that's something we have to work on. Because two tons of medicine is a bit of money. Look, if the ministry were to propose this system of participation, half the euro, I am sure that we would have people on the streets, because the average price of the medicine box is little more than 4 euros. You're not gonna believe this! One pound and a half of bread for the average medicine box for 30 days. So it is not all black and white, and I think it is particularly important to have an agreement here between all these partners, which obviously cannot be achieved, because I do not know why six ministers would change in all governments, but we can call Pahoreva, Bratuškova, and also in the right government, and you had this opportunity. We need to figure out where we're going. Look, we're talking about reform, and we're always looking for key changes to all the laws, here today, now that will change everything from today to tomorrow. Simply, I personally believe from what I have been following for several years that this will not be possible and that it is possible to think more about the steps that we will take gradually, because the changes that are big in this society are not desirable and are not even well accepted. But reform cannot be done without the agreement of all these stakeholders that I have listed, and as long as everyone stands on their shores, it will not be possible! It is also an appeal to all of these people to sit at the same table and agree on what the goal is. At the same time, determine how we will get more money per capita. What are these steps, the first, the last, I think that some steps have been taken, we cannot say that the ministry is doing nothing on this, not least trying to influence the management of the institution or gave an opinion. [[…]] The second thing, of course, is criticism on the right-hand side of the emergency medical care system, but the system is oriented so that it can optimize the functioning of health care in this part. Again, we cannot agree, we are already at the start of a public debate that has brought about a split in public. Perhaps, Mr Vrtovac, in this case, when you waited there for a few hours, you were obviously an emergency, but perhaps in this system that is now proposed, you would not have waited five hours or evaluated yourself or were an emergency or an emergency - I don't know, I'm just predicting and that's what happened to us. However, also these steps taken by the Ministry of Labour, let us also try to take our Members with more understanding and study what is good and bad in these steps, without giving immediately a priority, on the first ball, we bring down every thing that comes. And here's the way. In my opinion, there's a way. Once again, I would like to stress: with the resources we have available, our health system, believe me, does not work so badly that today we can tell citizens that everything is wrong. Because those who may have lived elsewhere in another country would see that it is not so easy to get to health services. We could now read the story of a Swedish citizen who told us what the situation was. Our singing Sweden. When you get to the general doctor, you've been convinced for two days that you're not sick at all, you've probably all been listening. And then when you get here, you get a doctor you haven't even chosen. Finally, if this service is not worth 200 euros, it will be paid out of its own pocket. Look, we want social, public health, as much as possible. However, how will we bring or help in the health treasury with the work you are defending in private work, it is important to think carefully that those people whom Mr Pojbič often advocates, farmers, those who are on a minimum wage, will not suffer in such a way. Because those who have the money will, of course, be able to afford it. But you know, those who don't have it, and then they won't be able to do it in such a system, and they won't be righteous again. By saying that your system that you are proposing in New Slovenia is absolutely and best If that were true, I believe that you would have started to introduce yourself 10 years ago. [[…]] It's not that simple. Because if it were, governments and ministers would have done it before. Dialogue is needed, partners are huge, and I believe that we can all help by not spreading every step that the ministry starts right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! First of all, I would like to say to the ladies that I was misunderstood and that I was talking about that evil-doing community from the background, which joins in and puts in place its petal when it comes to the acquisition of various materials in this system and in public procurement. And that's all I want to ask you is whether Mr. Janez Zemalerič is the social partner of the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Margareta Guček Zakošek, I'd like to say it's not my fault that I might be here with an old face. I guess I'm here for 8 years with some interruption, for the first time in 2004, but see, in the parliamentary procedure, there's a law on national elections. Make sure that, I don't know, at five years or so, the mandate is over and it can't happen again. If you go to watch what we did in the 2004-2008 mandate, but there was a second time that will never again be and never will be like this again. For that time, we did what was necessary. And since you were in the economy, you know exactly what the only stop is. The only constant in the economy is change, otherwise you're gone, tomorrow you're gone, he picks you up. Who? Competition. Right now, if you'd listened to me, you'd have heard me say: money isn't everything. We are, as far as waiting times are concerned, together with Sweden. We're together! And with Great Britain, and later, if there's a time-sharing, I'll make that comparison. Money isn't everything. Of course, I listen to doctors and respect them. I never did, and I'm not gonna say that the doctor is a thief. They have too much work and too little pay, but they are neither organized nor organized. I listen to the local media in Pomurje, Prekmurje and the doctor, who was awarded by the Pomurecs as a person of Pomurje one month, said without hair on the tongue that we have been waiting for several years, doctors mainly waiting for standards, norms. Because, what's going on? That he has the same salary if he does anything or doesn't do anything. Is that right? It's not right. And a lot, but I'm not going to abuse the replica, there are a lot of things that I'm going to say next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President, I, too, would say that no one on our side has discussed that they are doctors, health workers and other thieves. The problem is that when we talk about public procurement and affairs – they were mentioned, say, operating tables – and, of course, money is running out. The money's running out and no one's taking action. That's problematic. Otherwise, in my debate, I would focus first on waiting periods. On 1 November last year, more than 95,000 patients were waiting for first examination in the specialist infirmary, almost 10,000 patients more than in 2013. At the same time, the longest waiting periods for the first rheumatology review, where the average waiting period increased in one year, increased significantly. If I continue, surgery and surgery of the orthopaedic spine with an average waiting period of 546 days, rheumatological outpatient with an average waiting period of 427 days, orthopaedic surgery of the shoulder with an average waiting period of 401 days, other peripheral scar surgery with an average waiting period of 391 days, surgery of the splenic veins with an average waiting period of 312 days, coronary angiography with an average waiting period of 268 days, surgery and surgery in the mouth, throat and throat with an average waiting period of 218 days, surgery in the ear with an average waiting period of 210 days, surgery in adults with an average waiting period of 209 days. Let the numbers speak, and I've found them. The numbers tell us that you're waiting a year for a checkup, and you're a payer in a health check. I don't know what a man would think. However, I agree that it is also problematic that I have read two days ago on the Internet that a third of those who are scheduled to be examined do not come to the examination or the intervention. I agree that this is problematic, so I somehow agree or support the efforts that would also change the system in waiting periods. And believe me, I am the first to support the Minister when he comes to the National Assembly with concrete legislation, health reform, colleagues from Nova Slovenije have made this clear, and I must say that I fully support Mr. Vrtovac's efforts, which I think is quite argumentative and well said what the situation is today. I agree that the Minister is not now responsible or guilty, these health problems have been on the table for several years, not just months, but they need to be solved. That is why I am sure that health reform is the first priority of the Government of Mir Cerar, but we will not make you if we just study and analyze it, because we have already done so. It is only necessary to burn the table with one hand at a time and to adopt certain specific guidelines. Even the culprits, it's not the doctors, it's the nurses' fault. These are overloaded, in my opinion, one of the heroes or heroes who work under such circumstances. And that's what they're all about. I'd like to tell you my own experience. Last week I was a chaperone at the Clinical Center in Ljubljana on the seventh floor. The person was admitted at 8:00 a.m., and by 4:00 p.m., he's waiting in the waiting room for his bed, and your blood is taken from the nurses who share the meal. If it's a health standard or what we're paying for, then I don't know where we live. I am pleased that this has also been heard by the new president of the board of institutions, and I hope that you will make order in this public institution. Believe me, I'll be the first to support you in this. And once again, this is not the responsibility of doctors, nurses, other workers who are overloaded, but with every measure in the field of health, we are looking for or proposing some solutions to the tail. There's a problem with your head. And of course we will – at least I will support them. I therefore hope that the reform will be on the table as soon as possible. As far as corruption is concerned, my colleague Pojbič said very well. It is sad that some – I will not even say what they have done in the past, violate human rights, and so on – today they are stealing our budget, in which we all pay. For this reason, those who wait for intervention suffer. Also called some social partners in the background. Yeah. In my opinion, they also play an important role when we talk about elections and new faces and media monopolies and continue to do so. That's why it's problematic, of course. The secretary has a lot of work to do. The reorganisation of emergency medical care, too, can be said to have upset almost the whole country, because I perceive a new network of emergency medical care organizations as an attack on the periphery and an attack on the countryside. However, I am grateful from the heart that Ptuj will be given an emergency centre and I support you, but if we look at the general picture at the state level, we see that there are still a lot of problems. Last time Mr. Laj told the Lendava Health Committee, we heard the problem of Ormoža, Kamnika, Cerknice, Loško valleys and I think we are all assessing that this document is not suitable for adoption. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u132	Mr. Hear, can we go back to the health care facility?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u133	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u134	The theme is the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u135	Yeah, because it's very connected, and at the end of the day, people are hitting on what profits are, and then we don't have the money to build an emergency room. It's very connected. I myself support the introduction of the principle of competition in health, more competitiveness, not that we have a monopoly. I think that monopolies only work in Cuba and North Korea, and there we see that their standard is poor. The system where intervention stoppers need to be collected is weak, so I suggest we open the market and give others the opportunity. Competition is always welcome, I can say, competition and these principles, both in the field of health, the public sector, are insufficient in the country. As far as Slovenia is concerned, the demographic picture is worrying. As early as 2013, the insurance ratio was against pensioner 1:1.3. This relationship will not grow positively, but it will fall negatively. That is why we need a reform that will be stable in the long term and that will also drink water. A case of corruption or crime is the eHealth project. We threw 10 million euros through the window. To do this, we would build three emergency centres on a new one, or the Stožice, which Mr Jankovic also received from Mr Lukšić, 9 million Šenka. Therefore, I must say that in the coalition contract of the Government of Mira Cerar, I miss an integrated approach in the field of health, because you are dealing only with good 10% of all the funds raised – health funds, of course. And, once again, when we talk about concrete reforms for health care, I am the first to support you, Madam Minister, just please, do not get involved in the analysis and study, because these two words can no longer be heard.Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs Jelka Godec [[…]] Procedurally, please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am aware that you are quite tired of the fact that two of you are holding or conducting this meeting with the President, but I really ask you to be consistent or to treat all Members of the National Assembly equally. Today, at least as far as this point is concerned, you've already warned my fellow Members twice that they're moving away from the point, which is not true, because everything was connected to the Health Insurance Office, because it's a system. On the other hand, you gave your fellow Member a chance to do the replica, even though he didn't have time to do it at all. That's when we didn't pick up. But I think that's a little bit out of line, and I'm really asking you to hold this session somehow and really make sure that we don't feel that Members are somehow inequitable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. It's all connected and we could also be philosophical about the universe at the same time, because things don't have to be simplified that way, but the fact is that I was convinced that some of the themes had passed. And I gave Mr. Gantar, and I think I gave him 31 seconds, but the machine didn't cut me off, which I expected, and then I waited a little while for the sentence to be over. Thank you very much. Okay, Mrs. Jelka Godec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Today, much has already been said at the expense of health care and our system. I must say that I must agree with all those who say that our health system is in crisis — not from today — for quite some time. Right now, I think we're only working on the health field of firefighting. This situation is also pointed out in the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, other health associations, and this is particularly pointed out by patients themselves or users of health services. I think that health policy should be pursued in Slovenia, so the Ministry of Health should be designed according to the needs of patients, users, not who currently runs the Health Insurance Office, who currently runs the government or the ministry. Discussions in the National Assembly at the Committee on Health, UKC issues, hospitals in red numbers, as well as discussions at the appointment of Mr Fakin as director, or what has been said about the agreement to appoint a director and not to trust his direction, show that there is general dissatisfaction both in the field of health in Slovenia and in the field of the functioning of the Institute for Health Insurance in Slovenia. I'm surprised at all those who say today how well this institution works, but at the same time a few days ago you didn't give Mr Fakin a trust to lead this institution. The Health Insurance Office did not implement the conclusions given to it by the government in 2010, 2011, 2013 on standards and standards, and it is difficult to say that this institution then works as it should or should. Five years ago, for example, Mr Fakin announced that in the years 2010-2015, the driving force would be in the process of improving health care in order to improve the organisation of work, the reduction of waiting types, the increase of control in institutions, the improvement of quality and so on and so on. Today, of course, we all note that this has not been achieved, that the satisfaction of the citizens in the field of health has not increased, that the waiting line has not decreased, that it has increased and that systemic corruption is even more present in our health care. A day ago – I think yesterday or before yesterday – you were able to monitor in the media corruption in the supply of medical equipment by Emporia Medicala, who established straw companies in Austria to raise prices, sold equipment at a higher price, then used the difference between purchase and this price for corruption, i.e. to pay doctors in UKC, Ljubljana, Maribor, Valdoltra, New Town and so on. We've been listening to this since 2013, but the ministry just hasn't done anything about it, absolutely nothing. He also did not participate in or contribute to any of Slovenia's Health Insurance Office. I think the proposaler, with his recommendation to the National Assembly, wanted to draw attention to the unsustainable situation in this institution or to the situation in our health system alone. Today it has already been said that See how we can say that the health system is good if, for example, children with head injuries are collected stoppers to get treatments while at the same time the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia has millions of profits. [[…]] I think there's something really wrong here. The exchange of ministers, i.e. 8 ministers in ten years, has certainly not helped improve our health care system, but is happily getting rich, growing the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that the Minister here should respond strongly to all of these recommendations, all of these debates or suggestions that have been given on our part today, but I find it difficult to believe, because I see total ignorance, for example, in the case of emergency medical care, where the professional public has been alerted since January to the fact that the preparation of this regulation has not taken into account the terrain and today you have quite a few petitions signed in Slovenia, just in this area. It is best to see how our system, as well as how the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia behaves towards patients if you get sick. I must say that for the past six months, unfortunately, I have had cases because I have had to take the child to a doctor for certain reasons, and you come in no different order than not to use all relationships and acquaintances or end up in a private clinic — either with a dentist or with a dermatologist, anywhere, waiting types are abnormal, even for children. And don't let anyone tell me that our health care system and the Department of Health Insurance is doing well. I think these recommendations need to be taken seriously. Although the Legal and Legal Service has said that [[sign for the end of the debate]] The National Assembly does not have this power, but a broader debate on the health system would be needed. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has Miha Kordišek, to be prepared by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u141	President, thank you for your word. Two minutes 40 seconds. Today's recommendations do not hide their neoliberal agenda. The explanation frankly stated that the implementation of the recommendations would be the first step towards, I will quote,'researching the basket of rights'. End of quote. Prior to the elections, private insurance companies were promised to carry out compulsory health insurance. It's some famous thing, it's not even surprising. I am surprised, however, that in this same stream there is also a trumpet by the ruling party, which, while promising the termination of supplementary health insurance, a form of insurance which has five times the operating costs of an institution that ends up in an insurance company instead of in health care. Let me repeat Fides' scenario for the privatisation of compulsory insurance. First, the basket of rights is reduced and the market for additional insurance is opened for private insurance companies. Then two baskets of rights are separated; private insurance is insured for profitable services and the Health Insurance Office subsidises this activity. The insurance lobby would immediately replace the supplementary insurance for such a system, and this anti-reform would be paid by all citizens and all citizens, 99% of the population. Who are you kidding? This ambition back here is perfectly clear, because we know what time it is. The President of the Government said last time that our health system was fully imported and that the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute was blocking the reform. These statements are horribly similar to President Fides's statements that Semolic's unions in the Assembly of the Institute are blocking the reform. The modern centre was also the one that first stood up to Sam Fakin, which was confirmed by the Assembly of the Institute. Dear Party of the Modern Centre, the Institute is an autonomous and, at least for force, a democratic representative of the insured. The Institute also had some surpluses last year because funerals and post-mortems had ceased to be paid out of the medical register, not because it paid [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Please check this out in your business report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Now the representative of the Government, Minister of Health, has the floor. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I listened very carefully to you, all of you, honourable Members, and most of the words spoken were health reform and structural changes. If I asked you now to write on a short list what you mean by health reform and what is under structural change. The calls came from all over, and the shipping system is in a hurry, in a mess and so on. I am very responsible to tell you that in the European space, as has already been said, Slovenia has a very good health system, especially when we look at it in the form of the money we give to this system. I returned from the General Assembly of the World Health Organization last night. I've had such meetings with Director Chanovo, with many ministers, I think there were 8 or 9 at bilateral meetings. With the ministers from Europe I talk to when we compare systems, ways of financing, what our people get and what they get abroad. I would recommend that someone on their own skin, even though I don't allow anyone to need medical care, try it elsewhere. For example, in Switzerland, there was this meeting in Geneva. I would not, however, think that today there is no opportunity to debate this, because very soon all of you will have the opportunity to actively participate in the public debate and to give your valuable comments and suggestions to the resolution on the national healthcare plan, which we are ending at the Ministry for the next ten years, 2016 to 2025. Of course, there's 2.3 billion money in health care. There's a lot of interest. I think we all agree and there's no dilemma here. Of course, there are also many legitimate interests, which I take as something self-evident that certain stakeholders are fighting for their piece of cake in this 3.2 billion in today's part of the cake we are giving to health. Among other things, you may not know that Slovenia already provides 28% of its private resources and 14% of its pockets with 14% with supplementary insurance, which is about 4 percentage points higher than the average in the European Union. And once again: indeed reform – yes. I am very reluctant to use this term precisely because we each understand and interpret what reform is. All those who have ever worked in large systems or in any country of any change, structural reforms, can say what is particularly true for the health system, that these changes must be deliberate, long-term, based on agreements to the greatest extent possible, consensual. Of course, unfortunately it is not possible to accept everything in a consensual manner, but it is true that they must be done in steps. This resolution will provide a programme for the entire ten-year period of all the systemic changes that Slovenia needs today and in the long term in view of demographic changes if we are to ensure at least the health security that we have today, with the stable, sustainable, long-term financing of this health system. At the same time, let me also say that there will be priorities and downtime activities and, of course, so-called action plans or, if you want, master plans. At the same time, as has already been said, although some honourable Members and Members do not want to hear this, in every such discussion it is confirmed to me that this is the right course, that we really need a bloodthirsty analysis of our system. Why? Because many of the things you said and said today are, unfortunately, simply not true. And let's put data, numbers on the table, and let's talk about real data for a lot of waiting. because, by the way, we are preparing a pilot project to be able to reduce these types where this is absolutely necessary in a very short time, I believe and I am sure, even with the work of my new team. I've already mentioned this before, I don't know if you've read the article by Prof. Dr. Tomšič, where there's an official waiting line, I think, in 440 days for rheumatologists. But he says, no emergency, those who are really waiting for more than a week, 10 days, because he organized himself by having a special doctor specialist who examines all the travel and every day, would say renovating or harmonising this waiting line. I wouldn't, because I don't think today is the topic of, say, well, maybe just corruption. [[…]] Look, by the way, we've done a lot on public contracts. I've told you a lot about drugs. We are now going to the second round of these common public contracts, where we have saved between €7 million and €12 million. Specifically, a common procurement based on standardised technical data for emergency centres, equipment where we saved from 8.95 million to 5.6. That's $3.35 million. Is this not also part of the structural changes or reforms and measures we are talking about? Well, reform is sometimes a little bit smaller. Look, we're introducing an NMP rule. We've invested 50 million in new emergency equipment. Ask hospital supervisors how happy they are to have one quality modern equipment after many years to make it easier for them to work. Our emergency patients, those will be provided in the shortest possible time available, and with a single dispatch centre, we have such problems on the ground. The problem is that we ourselves are not prepared to change our thinking and thinking. Let me conclude with this, because it is just about to expire, let the call, recommendation and good will and sacrifice of all of us be here, if we really care for us, to our patients and to the end of us all, because we are every day older, to get better and proper care and to give the patient first priority and a little consideration to local or personal interests and think long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u144	The speaker has the floor, Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Could you please turn it off?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u145	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! To conclude, I will be very brief, for there is indeed a full debate behind us. I'm sorry, but if we listen to you on a flat-rate basis, then we can conclude that there is really nothing so wrong in the Slovenian health system. What you are saying and as you are taking your stand is your opinion, your respect, but also because of this concept of the regulation of the Slovenian health system we unfortunately dispersed in those summer months also on the basis of the negotiations in the National Assembly and you are well aware of this blue booklet, where it is also extensive or where the health system is also described on pages 98 and 100. That's what we talked about, and that's why we didn't come together. These conceptual differences still exist today. But I will present this booklet to you today, Madam Minister, that you will be able to read again a programme that, in our opinion, as in other countries of the European Union, where health problems are better addressed, could also solve this problem in Slovenia. In fact, you find that there is a person, a citizen, a patient in the center. For this reason, I assume that the patient or individual should be the one who decides who will be entrusted with his health insurance. For it all begins and ends, we have seen for ourselves the case of the Slovenian health system, with money. In spite of the monopoly, I stress once again and thus conclude, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is reflected in the absence of various controls which should be, but are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u146	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal for a report, Mr Jernej Vrtovec and the representative of the Government, Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, please raise your hand. No, okay. Then all for the rest of us, please sign up. Each debater has five minutes of time available. The first one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, in your introductory debate, I have somehow noticed that you have stated that you take these recommendations as well-intentioned. Yes, of course, because with this very good purpose we have written these, otherwise only seven and a half pages, and we have no idea how much resources, you know how big our parliamentary group is; we have, as I have already mentioned, an expert world, very good and so on. We will also make recommendations and make recommendations. Of course, I believe that we have different opinions here in democracy, in the National Assembly, but we want to put people at the forefront and their health, that's our motto when we talk about health. And once again or for the third time, it's not all money. Of course, we are a poor country, and we cannot spend as much on the health system as Austria is rich. Of course, there are anomalies that we are following through the media accompanying the resignation of your former colleague, the minister, I think of a very esteemed colleague of Gantar who was actually silent when he spoke or did not talk about the reasons why he was leaving. We also speak and see that doctors, specialists that some are also leaving Slovenia. We'd like to keep them here with us. None of the Members and Members of New Slovenia said that everything in health is bad. That's not true, and if anyone says that, I'll be the one defending the health system. It's not all bad. But it can be better and significantly better. I will now state what I have already announced, because I have not invented or actually anyone in Slovenia, but I have taken the source in the international comparison of the European health systems, the Euro Health Consumer Index, and I ask what they have in common are such different countries as the United Kingdom, Sweden, Ireland, Poland, Lithuania, Spain, Slovenia, Romania, Serbia and Malta. What do such different countries have in common? They vary according to development, according to wealth, according to health systems, and have long waiting periods in common. Well, it's not all money. And this index, this international comparison actually says that there is no correlation between money and accessibility to the health system. I even think that waiting periods for health services are more than a mental state that affects health administration and experts than the issue of lack of resources. If we look at Sweden, health care, otherwise than us, is financed mainly by taxes, for health care it spends a good half more money than Slovenia, taking into account purchasing power per capita. Health care is mostly public, the social state is still luxurious, the results of the health system are good, and people don't go for every fig to a doctor like we do. But there are waiting periods there, just like we do. Attention, the Swedish government has invested one billion euros in reducing waiting periods. Of course you know that, Madam Secretary. We read this in this study, which I mention, but so far with a lot of these effects. So you throw away a billion, and there's actually no effect. The answer to the question of where the problem is is in the palm of your hand. The problem is organization, organization. Cancer treatment in Sweden is still waiting too long, similar to family doctors, specialists, even in the E.R. and so on. Now look out, on the other hand some [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The poorest European countries of waiting species in the health sector, according to the findings of this survey, do not have or are minimal, such as Albania, or have very successfully reduced them, most Macedonia. This has been achieved by the introduction of e-procurement for health services in real time. Interestingly, Slovenia, which has developed quite a bit of IT and has already lost EUR 15 million in its project – colleague Chuš said 10, the minister knows the exact number – that after years of delay and following the latest promises she would finally get the possibility of e-ordering health services and a single waiting system only at the end of the year. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u148	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Minister, I think you said earlier that you were somehow in your execution or when you answered some questions, that quite a few things have been said by my predecessors. You know, if we followed your answers, we'd find some. Just remember my parliamentary question on the resolution on mental health, which you announced in the Parliament of April, today we are the end of May, and it is still not. So please be consistent and, above all, be careful what you promise, for we will always keep you by your word and then what you will say in good faith will be difficult to believe in. See, when we talk about the Health Insurance Office, Article 77a states exactly what your obligations are. Finally, it is also a matter of control and legality and, of course, here you are competent. However, when we address you with specific matters, with questions from the Members, you say that you cannot go into their work. You know, we should. In fact, today we're talking about a system that has huge profits on one side. We're talking about a system that's not supposed to have a profit, and money uses our health system bloodyly. And let me tell you a few cases that actually talk about everything not being as good as it should be or that could be a lot better. I know, and I realize there'll never be enough money in the country for health care, never. Well, that's true, he's probably nowhere, but it's important that we use the money that he is and use it to make the best use of it. We speak, of course, for the health of citizens and citizens. I'm going to turn the case around to those who are most vulnerable, these are our children. It's about groups that defend themselves the hardest, and when it comes to children, it seems to me that a lot of other things are less important. For an orthodontist today, children are waiting — or I will say otherwise — for their teeth to grow before they grow, they should order them for an orthodontist, such as waiting periods. Is that normal? Look, these are specific problems. And then, logically, you have to expect that scarecrows are ordered into these multi-year species, and then they're not there, because they're looking for other solutions, but they can't even need it, because there's a lot of things going on. Then, on the other hand, what has already been said today, I'm talking about baby heart surgery. Excuse me, this is a disgrace to the whole system that parents have to fight and expose themselves on social networks, because literally one doctor or another advises them differently and sends them from Pontius to Pilate and they fight for the lives of their children. After all, these kids, when they grow up, will be taxpayers, just God forbid they grow up so something worse doesn't happen. Yeah, because there's no solution here! Once they promise surgeons to come from one end, then from the other end, and then it happens that within the system they deal with those who hope to say or disagree with something. See that the professional director of the Hojker Clinic Centre affords himself and says that it is absurd for parents to talk online about what is going on, I say: absurd is that someone has time to deal with their parents in this way instead of looking for solutions. It's huge, and unfortunately I'm running out of time, and of course I won't go on, but seriously please, Minister, it's not all in the strategy, it's not all in the money, it's all there is right now, but you're the one who can make and direct attention to the fact that this is the best used and not that they're looking for a child's solution abroad, with the help of citizens [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u150	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister and colleagues! Of course, as far as the health system is concerned, and I have already asked the Minister about this health reform once before, and I have wondered why we have to hire foreign experts to find out something that I think we ourselves know where this system is and is not the best. But in view of the debate, I must say, Mr Horvath, it has been said that the health system is sick. Actually, that's why I stopped by, or I'm calling. I don't think the medical system is sick. was, say, in Ljubljana in the ER several times, for some sports injury, and so on, ankle, and I waited. But twice I was in a situation where I absolutely needed a serious intervention, and I was immediately accepted, in three minutes, and they threw me twice so they couldn't better me. And I'm saying this system isn't sick. So I went. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No Primaj Hainz! I came as a patient, I told my sister, listen, I fell together, what to do. She said wait a minute. In three minutes, I went in — I had stomach perforation. They had me at heart first, and then they had me but that was years ago, then I was an expert worker and so on. [[…]] In short, I mean, things worked so well. But out in the queue, women waited for a twisted elbow to wait for three hours, and they went straight inside. So about this evening — or twice I have experienced it — it seemed and I claim that the health system is not sick after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u152	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u153	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Commission's report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2014. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: First of all: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2014. Secondly: The National Assembly supports the Commission's efforts to control the intelligence and security services referred to in the positions and calls on the Government to implement them with the competent ministries and services as soon as possible. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. In the Alliance, we cannot support the decision because it refers to certain findings and positions which do not. We would like to point out that the Commission's finding or position is undeniable that there are no indications that in the events and violent demonstrations 2012/2013, the functioning of the organised form of extremist groups is contrary to the results obtained by the Commission of Inquiry during the previous mandate. Mr Grims argued today that there was some professional supervision by the KNOVS, but something else was the political or political work of the investigative commission. Mr Grimes' claims are, of course, misleading. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the KNOVS is unable to exercise control in the way that an investigative commission with wider powers can. In addition, during the previous mandate, KNOVS also formulated that finding on the basis of the material received from Sova. It follows from the material obtained by the Commission of Inquiry due to its broad investigative powers that Sova has prepared, at the request of the KNOVS, a report on the activities of extremist groups in our country, covering 10 pages. The last report has never been transmitted to the KNOVS, which has received a substantially shorter or only three-page long report. The Commission of Inquiry found that the documents differ substantially in content: the first report was much more detailed in the work on right extremism, and the second report, which is, how interestingly, without signature, is balanced, right and left extremism is given equal attention. However, there is also a third report of the Owl, which was produced under the guidance of Damir Črnčec, which differs from both of these reports, is longer and more detailed than the first report, but also includes picture material. In addition, KNOVS argued that the police did not detect organised extremist groups or groups associated with extremists at the demonstrations either. In this regard, it is worth noting that the police do not have the legal powers to monitor extremist groups and associated individuals, and therefore cannot maintain the relevant records. And that the police's statements were related to the latter. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry had to take a different path; it requested the police to take pictures of the material taken by the Ljubljana protests in order to identify the perpetrators of the crimes. In addition, she asked the police to inform her of the persons against whom she had initiated the relevant offences and criminal proceedings. On the basis of the material obtained, the commission of inquiry last July, just prior to the state-run elections, drew up an evidentiary conclusion. With it she formed a circle of witnesses, suspected to belong to our most active extremist groups. Therefore, members of these extremist groups were clearly present at the protests, and they even committed violent acts or crimes. The latter findings therefore completely detract from the statements of the former members of the opposition investigative commission and the findings of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u155	I don't know if this is an explanation for the vote or an investigative committee report on the agenda, which is a fundamental question for me. Usually I don't go into it, but it was dangerously close, I think it would be a secret, but there was nothing, I think, because those points weren't covered. But, please, I'm warning you, you don't do this anymore. You have a warning. An explanation of the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u156	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! We will support the proposed conclusions in the SDS Group. These decisions were adopted unanimously by all members and members of the Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services at their meeting — on what basis? These are the findings that have been made by the previous commission or the previous composition, since we were only doing our work a few days before the new year, and this relates to the new year. However, when we obtained all the materials of the commission of inquiry with a special decision, we demanded them, as Dr. Duck suggested, and so none of these conclusions were made in any way as they were now trying to appear. But I don't think such a controversy is an explanation of the voice in mind. What convinces us that these decisions are necessary, even for the responsibility of our soldiers at home and abroad, is that, as a starting point for these conclusions, there was once doubt or suspicion that Slovenian soldiers should train some extremists. It turned out, and this is covered in these conclusions that it is a complete lie and an untruth. Those who insist on this should be aware that they challenge the credibility of our security and intelligence services against their colleagues abroad and, worse still, promote the credibility of the state of Slovenia and its army at home and abroad. This actually affects their security, because if an institution or security intelligence service or an army is no longer considered or seen abroad because of such political conduct, certain sources of information shall be closed or filtered, which then negatively affects their security. It is therefore also a responsibility for those people whom we send to defend our Slovenia abroad; for their safety and ultimately for the safety of all of us. With security, colleagues and colleagues, it's the same as with health. How important it is and how we consider it to be self-evident, we realize when we lose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u157	I read the conclusion once again, and even the first explanation was not sufficient, but this second explanation is essentially controversial with that first explanation. That's why I'm going to give you a reminder for that part, not the whole thing. In the beginning, at least compared to the previous one, you said how you would vote. Is there any other explanation? Procedural or anything? Individual explanation or procedural explanation? Individual explanation. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I think you already know what will happen at the end of this individual explanation. Individual explanation, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much. For this proposal, of course, I will not vote for one simple reason. I have warned you at the beginning of this mandate and I have also put into procedure a draft amendment to the law, where I have very clearly reasoned on how stupid, crazy and foolish it is that today's composition adopts reports of the previous composition, which was not at all. And more importantly, I've given you a reason. Why? For manipulation! And this manipulation was demonstrated today. And what we heard from my predecessor today is more than clear, and I can deserve, President, a hundred reminders. But the fact is that he said the following thing today in the context of reporting, which is that only one left extremist was summoned. And the problem with this national council is that you called this one yourself, and that's where the author of this story is sitting. But more importantly, until this national assembly understands and sees and acknowledges that we have extremists — because it says on the one hand that we do not see them or there are few of them, but there was no demonstration. Then we say there are none or so small that they are not really to be recognized and not dangerous for this society. Please, you've wet such nonsense today with this report that I'm ashamed that you've come to the National Assembly with this! And that's why, of course, it's not acceptable. Personally, once again, to get six reminders, I can't accept that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u159	Let us accept the fact that you will not accept this, and one reminder will suffice. There is a procedural advantage, Mr. Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you. I have no problem with you giving me a reminder if I may have exceeded in some part of my performance, but what you said I didn't tell you how we're going to vote is not true. In fact, I began my implementation with the words: "In the Alliance of Decisions we cannot support." So I said what was most important in explaining the voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u161	I withdraw this part of my statement. So, you've all done the same thing, because you've partially violated this matter, which is intended to explain your voice, you've earned a reminder, and now I hope that there are enough reminders and that there is enough explanation for your vote and that we can vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 5. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Participation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[The vote is 56.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption by Short Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much, President. Today, in fact, we have only one fact: we have told citizens that they can eat where they want, except where the law forbids it; we have told them that they have limited time; we have also told them the following thing, and that is essential. People in the country of the Republic of Slovenia can be judgmental everywhere and know when to drink and when not, but when they cross the threshold of a sports event, their minds stop. It is therefore reasonable that, of course, there is a measure within the law that says that they simply cannot decide at a sports event whether they can drink one beer or not because they become unreasonable; more importantly, at this event alone, at any other event, they give a bad message. Because they can be dead drunk on a fireman's birthday, they can fight, it's even expected, because he's usually beaten on fireflies. That's always expected. At a cultural event, anywhere from the President of the State to the funeral, you can always drink and there is no recklessness anywhere but at a sporting event; and that is in fact the saddest message. The measure is disproportionate. I expect the Ministry to come up with a new proposal to ban alcohol from all events. At all events! Let us see how successful we will then be if we want to be proportionately equivalent to the measure. Of course we're not staying. We also excluded the non-governmental sector, sports organisations, sports industries from the democratic process, because we felt that only the Health Committee or those who were called upon to do so could speak about it. The reasons this country has, which is that it has neither tax incentives nor any incentives for sports organisations, but it only says that a healthy spirit in a healthy body means much and that this is the most important thing, of course, leads to the point that in the end we can find that this is the same as making a fool out of all sports workers. Besides, that's all I have to say when I'm done. We will meet again with this proposal. Thank you very much to all Members and Members for the support they have shown. However, I expect that this will, of course, be bigger in the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u163	How will you vote? Against. Against. Let me think. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] So we're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 22. [[The vote is 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We continue with the interrupted 4th item of the agenda – first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance regarding the failure to implement government decisions, greater transparency of payments and the preparation of system-wide solutions for effective supervision of the delivery of health services. We decide on the following proposal: Proposal for a Recommendation to the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance concerning the failure to implement the Government's decisions, greater transparency of payments and the preparation of system-wide solutions for effective supervision of the implementation of health services is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. This proposal for recommendations was nothing more than an excuse for propaganda against public health, a propaganda that went hand in hand with private insurance companies. There is no secret that the applicant advocates neoliberal reform of the health system, a health insurance pardon, and there is no secret that the first step of this reform is also to reduce the basket of health rights. Colleagues from the NSI formulated this very well with the expression of re-examination of the basket of health rights. The scenario behind this privatisation is known: fewer rights, more business for insurance companies, and this is advocated by political options after we have had 20 years of experience with supplementary insurance, and at that time the waiting types have not been reduced, the supplementary insurance premiums have been auctioned, the operating costs have increased, along with the profits of insurance companies, and we have come even so far as to have 50 million of the good 470 million funds collected in insurance companies, instead of going into our health system. Then we have an economic dimension here. The cost of the private insurance companies is 5 times higher than that of the company, that we are not even talking about profits. Competition in health insurance is poor. Now some of this system, which is socially unjust, economically ineffective, would like to be placed in compulsory health insurance. And this happens after, for example, the Netherlands went to abolish this model – I think they call it compulsory contractual insurance. This is because in the United States, for the first time in history, compulsory health insurance has been introduced, as there were already 40 million people in the private system without any kind of insurance. It is a little surprising, however, that some coalition Members have not made a clear barrier to these recommendations, which go completely against their promises to strengthen public health and to abolish supplementary insurance. This is, last but not least, part of the coalition contract. Their views have been hidden behind the formal shortcomings of this recommendation, but they have not been shaken by the neoliberal recipes that this recommendation introduces or proposes. They even participate in this negative campaign with Slovenian health care. This report is illegal in form, and it is totally antisocial in content, so in the United Left we will of course support the conclusion that this recommendation is not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u165	Without the last sentence, we would have received a reminder. Now Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the word to explain his vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u166	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is time for a serious discussion, we are talking about a serious issue such as health, the Slovenian health system, which is why, unlike my predecessor, I will speak a little more seriously and, of course, in the New Slovenia Group we will vote against. In fact, see, the Slovenian health system is in disarray. We see this from day to day, confirming it from day to day. In fact, long waiting periods, health lobbying, long waiting types, expensive services, anomalies that we witness daily, corruption and clienteleism, health lobby and could even list, are calling for us to do something about this. Slovenian taxpayers in our health system devote a considerable amount of money and according to the financial contribution we get much less from the Slovenian health system. In fact, in the Republic of Slovenia, a person can be satisfied with the Slovenian health system until he is ill, but once he is sick, serious problems arise. And let's just thank the good and quality Slovenian doctors, unfortunately not the health system, and not forget the nurses, too. Colleagues and colleagues, if you don't care what the waiting times are, if you don't care that we collect stoppers for our youngest operations, that we organize charity actions, and then we send them to operations abroad, then it's only right that you decide this time – I'll get a reminder – and you vote like New Slovenia. In fact, one of the biggest problems of our health system is undoubtedly the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. That is the case, various conversations testify to the day - to - day situation in the medical system. This is why we have made recommendations in Novi Slovenija – the first recommendation concerns standards and standards. The fact is that the Government has imposed them on the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which somehow does not want to carry them out. Indeed, what a country we live in where the institution in question does not respect the government’s conclusions! The second recommendation concerns system solutions for the transparency of healthcare payments and the third recommendation concerns system solutions for transparent control of the travel and delivery of health services. These are three recommendations that meet the needs of today and provide a fairer and better health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u167	Today, though, it is really very easy to conduct the session, and you are giving yourself reminders, but is there any other explanation? [[…]] In your own name? In his own name, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I'm not giving myself a reminder in advance. On a plane to Riga, I met a minister, and I also told her that I had a family that wasn't that wide, but a friend or a friend with someone who works in health care in three continents in a number of countries. My colleague Milan said yesterday that we are politicians, we come from different ideological positions. The ideological position of New Slovenia is clear, the ideological position of the United Left is clear, I will not repeat myself to much. If we look at Supervisor, if we look at those 9, 10 companies that are covering the public health contract, if we look at what price we buy generations in Slovenia – young colleagues, there are problems in Slovenian health care, plus, of course, a promise made by this coalition, how it will go into changes in health insurance. In short, let's stop bluffing. Here is a half billion, say people who know the sector very well, and then we fight there in the budget where we will: whether we will find 200 000 euros either for Owl or for education, or for what or something else. I hope, Mrs Kolareva, I know that she has a pension, I know that she has a good kindergarten, that she likes gardeners, she also likes marmalade, and I hope that she will go ahead and make order in this area and that we will put you in health and have quality health. But don't talk like that when you're making a statement. There are a lot of people working in health care who work very hard, who work very well for too many wages. Thank you for saying I will vote, but my colleague Kordish has already said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u169	I just can't give everyone a reminder again. Finally, he said how he would vote. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u170	Look, there have been a lot of health problems that are actually present and, of course, people are facing them and they can only attach themselves to them. However, these problems have been greatly enhanced and the fact is that health problems are somehow reflected in society and are not, if we are talking about corruption or any other problem, no greater and unfortunately no smaller than they are in other areas. I think the proposaler is satisfied with today's discussion and has achieved his purpose. On the other hand, although he is aware of the fact that he has intervened in an area that does not actually belong to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and cannot respond to all these criticisms. Of course, for this reason, because I think this is a kind of manipulation also with public opinion, and these proposals with reality obviously have no connection, nor with jurisdiction, we unfortunately cannot support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-08.ana.u171	So we're done with the explanations of the voice. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 22. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 8th meeting of the National Assembly.
