ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the continuation of the sixth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Andreja Katič by 16:00, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Janja Sluga, Mrs Irena Kotnik until 14:00, Mr Ivan Škodnik, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Mr Simon Zajc from 17:00 on, Mr Igor Zorčič from 13:00 on, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Uroš Prikl to 16:00 and Mr Benedict Kopmajer. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for 46 questions from the Member States within the time limit. I inform you that Member Franz Breznik is on Friday, 27. 3. 2015, published his oral questions. The order for the question to be asked shall be set in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, both Members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask questions. The President of the Government and the Minister and the Minister shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but does not have to ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government and the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, and Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition from 3.30 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. Mr Jože Tanko will ask him the question first. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Tomorrow, the so-called Mauritian Coalition in the National Assembly is likely to complete the selection of a judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. Six candidates applied for the invitation. The government proposed three candidates to President Pahor, namely Dr Mark Ilešič, Dr Veronica Trstenjak and Dr Boštjan M. Zupančič. The President of the Republic held talks with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. In the SDS we gave support to Verica Trstenjak and the modern center party Dr. Ilešič. The President of the Republic also proposed both as candidates for one seat of Judge. A few days ago, Dr. Verica Trstenjak withdrew from her candidacy, so only one candidate, Dr. Marko Ilešič, will be present on the ballot. Recently, however, it has been revealed that you met with Dr Ilešić, a candidate at the European Union Court of Justice at the time of the open candidature procedure. If they're holding the information, Dr. Ilešič was also the only registered candidate you've met personally. Mr President of the Government: Are there any indications that you and Dr. Ilešič, as the only registered candidates for the European Court of Justice, met and had an open-ended interview with him? Do you think that such an approach by the President of the Government, who participates in the selection process and then has the opportunity to influence the conduct of his parliamentary group, is appropriate when it is already outspoken in the public eye that the selection process does not go unbiased or that it does not even appear impartial? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u3	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u4	Dear Mr Tanko, thank you very much for this question. First, let me say that at least three candidates, or candidates and candidates, who are candidates or candidates for the position of judge in Luxembourg, I personally know Mrs Verico Trstenjak and Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič and Dr. Ilešič. So also Dr. Trstenjak's, of course. And believe me, as a lawyer, as a former professor, as well as as as the former President of the Council of Justice, I am well aware that in such procedures it is necessary not only to be careful that in the role that I have, but also in the influence that I have in my client, I am acting entirely impartially and objectively, and at the same time I am giving the appearance of such impartiality and objectivity. That is why, of course, although I know all these three legal colleagues well and have also had occasional communication with them, when I visited Luxembourg, where I actually also visited the High Court of Justice and also met with Dr Ilešič, and also had a special conversation with the President of the Court, and with some of our members who work there, let us say to Judge Mir Prek and others, I am particularly careful, and also continue to demand that the minutes of the meeting be drafted so that we will not meet separately with Dr Ilešič and have any special conversation, so that no one would accidentally think that we could be able to have such a conversation, but I would certainly not, also talk about something unacceptable or inappropriate about the candidacy. So I have certainly been careful about this and I assure you that I did not use this opportunity in this contact with Dr. Ilešič to talk to him about the candidacy in any way. However, in order to be able to influence me in this process, and I am talking about all three candidates, not least I had one, I remember, writing about another matter with Dr. Boštjan Zupančič, and also Dr. Trstenjak wrote me an e-mail in this regard, so in none of these cases I did anything that might affect my personal objective judgment in this case, and even less I have ever, as party president or as government president, influenced or wished to influence the fact that this would be assessed on a biased basis. The criteria are clear here, and it is mainly by professional criteria, according to experience, according to the competences of these candidates. And I am sure that the SMC party has gone this way and has also adopted its position in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u5	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There is also a tendering procedure for a judge in the European Court of Human Rights. There are 12 candidates registered here and Slovenia must send a list of at least 3 candidates, at least one of whom must be female. It shall send the list to the President of the Republic, in the light of the previous opinion of the Council of Justice, for confirmation by the Council of State. Our judge is elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Among the applicants is Dr. Gregor Virant, who in the open candidature procedure probably had the only conversation with you, which also casts doubt on impartiality. Let me remind you that Dr. Virant explicitly supported you as a mandate-holder after his overthrow of the other Janša government and that you participated in the Constitutional Commission when Dr. Virant was president of the National Assembly and you were a professional associate. Virant also recently supported high fees in the scientific or academic sphere. As President of the National Assembly, Dr Virant was also a key member of the KPK President, former KPK President Goran Klemenčič, on the overthrow of the Janša government, and he is now the Minister of Justice on your team. Do you believe that this procedure is being conducted impartially or at least gives a form of impartiality?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u7	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you. Actually, I met Dr. Virant a few weeks ago. I speak from memory, I don't know exactly the dates, but the meeting was dedicated to a completely different subject. And I can assure you that we have not discussed the subject of his candidacy. He told me if I knew he was a candidate, I said I knew, but we're not going to discuss it. And we both agreed on this, because I had it at my meeting because of issues relating to public administration reform, he was formerly a minister in this area and with Minister Koprivnikar I am in a close relationship when it comes to some reform projects, including e-democracy, e-government. And I've worked with Dr. Virant in this area years ago. So I wanted to talk to him about a few questions. I'd say so. See, of course in Slovenia, especially since it is a small space, we come in contact with a particular professional colleague. I also know a lot about these candidates personally. You must know that among these various candidates for judges there are even some with whom I am in a friendly relationship. You can't avoid that. Therefore, the only guarantee is that we are objective and impartial here, that we reduce this appearance and actual contacts in such a way that we do not give any signals that would affect this independence and our impartiality. I also absolutely guarantee here that there has been no undue influence, no discussion, no communication in the direction of candidacy. However, let me also say that as Prime Minister, I have neither in the previous procedure nor in this any decisive competence. So you know that, in fact, the candidates for these high places in these courts are proposed by the President of the State and decided by your esteemed assembly. So, believe me, in all these cases I am very careful, but sometimes contact with someone simply cannot be avoided because it is professional, work or other contacts. But I reject all those allegations, here you are wrong to say that, in any way, I have been politically involved with Mr Virant, helping with any demolitions or projects that were of a political nature. That's not what I was talking about when I was an expert. And in the time you mentioned, I acted exclusively professionally, I didn't interfere with politics, and that's why it doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u9	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a general debate on the issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am not satisfied with the answers and with the persuasiveness of the answers of the President of the Government, so I also propose that a discussion be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the response of the President of the Government. The fact that the President of the Government meets and talks within an open deadline with only one of the candidates applied for, but not with the other candidates, clearly means that one of the candidates is privileged and that all the other candidates applied for in the procedure are not discriminated against and are not in an equal position in the case of candidates. That procedure does not give a sense of impartiality, except to be impartial. At the same time, I would remind you of the conclusion of the column, which was published in the Journal on 6 January 2014 and was entitled Why law is not exact in which the following is written, I quote: "The problem which is too present in Slovenia, especially when legal differences in their perception are due to their unethical legal stance, is when they are following in fact political or only personal enrichment objectives, and they are unfairly adapting their legal evaluations and positions. In such cases it is a matter of sold souls that harm the law and society." End of quote. So, Mr President, today's answers fall into this category, as well as some or more of your actions in the government's work so far. However, I would like to draw your attention to the statements made by your group leader, Mrs Simone Kustec Lipicer, who has said several times in her statements that the Group will wait for the decision of the Prime Minister and will then support the decision of the Prime Minister because they trust her. In both of these cases, the Government is the proposer. In both cases, the President of the Government shall decide on the design of either the candidate list or the candidate. Mr Klemenčič also decides in this case because the Minister is and is deeply linked as the former President of the KPK Senate with Dr Virant, and it is probably difficult to say in these cases that this is an independent procedure, especially when we take into account the statements made by Dr Simone Kustec Lipicer. Therefore, Mr President of the National Assembly, I believe that the debate on the response of the President of the Government is necessary or necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u11	Mr Jože Tanko will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Second of all, the government will ask Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. This year, 70 years have passed since the end of World War II, bringing us 60 million dead, 35 million wounded, 3 million missing, 45 million imprisoned, 20 million children without parents, and 30 million destroyed buildings. Slovenia was also completely devastated. Nearly 100,000 people died, almost 7% of the population of Slovenia. Of these, 37% were civilians. During the war, the whole village was burned down and cities were destroyed. Of the more than 80,000 exiled, there are only 11 thousand more now, 297 refugees and exiles. In all the statistics listed, there are countless personal tragedies, tortures and war crimes. After the end of the war, the Allied forces, at peace conferences, demanded the payment of war damage from the aggressor Nazi states. The payment of all the damage and compensation caused cannot in any way erase the dimension of Nazi and fascist evil, but can at least partially contribute to the satisfaction of the property losses. Yugoslavia received only part of the war damage. As early as February 1994, the National Assembly had considered the report of the Medesor Commission of the Government for the Treatment of War Damage, which was established in October 1992. The National Assembly adopted a number of 20 decisions calling on the Government to prepare a comprehensive assessment of war damage, to establish a claim for war compensation, to continue negotiations to recover war damage and to establish a special fund to which Germany will pay the agreed war compensation. In 2001, the Act on the Fund for Remuneration of War Remuneration to Victims of War and Post-war Violence for Physical and Mental Suffering and for the Dead was adopted. Material war damage is supposed to be solved by special law. The 1994 decision of the National Assembly, which ordered the Government to speed up negotiations with Germany to recover war damage, has not yet been implemented by any government. In accordance with the Paris Agreement of 1946, $36 billion was granted to Yugoslavia for compensation to be paid by the German state. Following a successful agreement, Slovenia accounts for 16% of this sum, which amounts to about $5.7 billion or about 3.5 billion. That's why I'm asking you: Will the government finally begin the activities that were loaded with the 1994 National Assembly conclusions? Will the Government, in accordance with the decisions taken, demand compensation for the damage caused by the war? Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a law on the payment of material damage to the victims of World War II who have not yet been paid symbolically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u13	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u14	Commissioner Tomić, thank you for the question. I think that this question requires putting the whole matter in a broader political and also historical context. It is true, very painful are the facts that you mentioned when you spoke about all the loss that Slovenia suffered in World War II. So human, it was the worst, and of course also the wealth, moral, and any other. Of course, it should be borne in mind that, as you yourself have found, 70 years have passed since then. As has been the case since the decision of the Government of 1994 for more than 20 years. At that time, of course, the situation changed significantly. You know it can't be a coincidence that the Slovenian authorities just in 2004 stopped referring to this issue in bilateral relations with the Federal Republic of Germany, because at that time Slovenia has made a fundamental and crucial decision to join the European Union, thus also being closer to Germany and all other countries, than Italy, Austria and all others who have been on this or that side in World War II, and that, in fact, we are showing that we are also starting in this way, as part of a united Europe, to go beyond the historical division and heritage of World War II on the principles of solidarity, cohesion and justice. It is if I use the thought expressed in the French daily Le Monde in the previous week as one of the foundations of the European project, namely, exceeding the cycle of smells and humiliations that have led Europe to destruction. Of course, Slovenia still believes that we all understand that this issue, which you have raised, is not fully settled. However, it is also clearly the opposite of the position of the Federal Republic of Germany, which states that the issue of compensation was resolved by an agreement between Willy Brandt and Josip Broz Tito and that all obligations had been met in the past between the then Federal Republic of Germany and the then SFR Yugoslavia. It would be difficult to find a country that would consider that the war was paid in full, justly and in such a way as to appease all desires, pain and the rest. I'm aware of that. But Slovenia's political position, attitude, behaviour, also our constructive stance and contribution to the further development of the European Union take into account all the circumstances that are being encountered here. So today, with all the members of the European Union, including Germany, we have good relations, especially with Germany, and we also have all-round political, economic and cultural relations. We know that we are most exporting to this area, with which we also have a strategic partner, Germany is also our most important external trading partner, as I said. There are many cultural, human and, of course, other connections. Of course, I keep this issue in mind, but at the same time, I do not want to see, right now, at this time in Slovenian politics, some issues of simplified recipes that we now see in some other part that appear to be an immediate solution to some other problems have led to the deterioration of relations between our country, the Federal Republic of Germany and some other countries, in short, with any European partner. I therefore stress that, despite this burden from the past, despite this concern, our sense that things have not been fully fulfilled fairly must be taken into account in this context. However, I would point out something that has also been found to be very professional, very thoughtful, even by the Ministry of Justice, for example, explicitly exposed, it is clear that Slovenia cannot take responsibility as a country for the damage caused to individuals and society by the aggression of a foreign country. This is not only a political position, but also a position that is reflected in the very clear practice of the courts and also in the constitutional judgment of our Constitutional Court, but also in the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u15	Violeta Tomić has the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u16	Your Honor! There is no way I can be satisfied with the answer, because my questions have been asked very specifically and the answers have not been answered at all. If I understand you correctly, we cancelled Germany's debt by entering the European Union in 2004. This answer is very significant, given that workers in Slovenia and the European Union as a result of austerity measures or the tightening of the belt are living worse and that in justifying these anti-social and anti-human measures you are citing or better referring to debt. With regard to the debt issue, it is Germany or the German government that insists on paying for all the obligations until the last test. How is it possible for both current and former governments to worship Angela Merkel, who requires non-life belt tightening without anyone wondering when Germany will repay its debt to Slovenia? My question is concrete: When will the government open up the issue of restoring war damage at bilateral level? When will she initiate all the procedures available to her? When will the government adopt a law on the payment of material damage to the victims of another world war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u17	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I really hope I wasn't misunderstood. Indeed, our efforts at good cooperation, for tolerance, for mutual relations in the European Union do not mean that we worship anyone. Slovenia does not worship, must not worship and will not worship any country, nor Germany. I have to make this perfectly clear. This is not an answer that leads in any direction. It is simply that we need to understand that these matters have been resolved in the past, solved to some extent, in many ways inappropriate. And we're aware of that. We keep that in mind. We have not written off this debt, let me be very clear. Of course, we didn't write it off, so we could write it off. However, the fact is that for something like this, we must be able to effectively enforce this debt and remain in a constructive role of a member of the European Union, and have an appropriate time to do so, with favourable circumstances and resources. And when that happens — and, of course, we follow the situation, we study — we will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u19	Violeta Tomić has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a general debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Obviously, no procedure for the recovery of war damage has been initiated by Slovenia, so I propose that we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government at the next meeting. Of course, by then, Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have taken a less servile or volatile position towards the European Union and, in particular, the ruling conservative elite, headed by Angela Merkel, and in the hope that it will finally find that the damage caused by the war must also be answered, irrespective of whether or not you are Germany, which requires all others to respect certain rules that it does not respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u21	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Thirdly, he's going to ask the Prime Minister a question of mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u22	The Honourable President of the Government. Let me begin by congratulating you on your attitude in the event of Mr Weber's affair that you have taken your stand on the side of the rule of law and transparency. This time, however, my question is about restructuring Slovenian companies, because restructuring Slovenian companies is one of the key and fundamental points, whether the Slovenian economy will finally collapse and whether Slovenia will breathe again with full lungs. If you will recall past discussions that we have already had in this Chamber about the banking system, then you can see that there was a lot of money in the time of fat cows. Banks had a number of resources at their disposal to access the huge amount of money that they thus provided to domestic companies. The relative ease of access to money in international markets meant that even bankers called Slovenian managers and offered them cheap money for so-called managers' buyouts. Managers also spoke about this in a free and completely resilient way. In particular, ten years ago, banks owned by the state offered favourable loans to Slovenian companies, which were made under promise, although they were short-term, under the promise to transform into long-term loans. In 2008, there was a collapse of the real estate market in America, resulting in a financial and economic crisis. This also claimed that the huge amounts of money they borrowed from the international markets had begun to recover rapidly. Of course, that money could be returned demanded money from those to whom it had been lent. These are Slovenian companies. Since the promise that short-term loans will soon be transformed into long-term loans, there has been nothing. As a result, companies started to be given as dominoes, one after the other, because they simply did not have enough money to bring it back effectively and quickly. Today we have so many highly indebted companies. Debt remains high, however, mainly due to lack of equity. Debt is one of the fundamental problems that we all deal with. It is not just those companies that are more cyclically sensitive, but it is spreading to all other sectors. I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: What measures will your government take to assist in the deleveraging of Slovenian companies and thus in the restructuring of companies?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u23	Answers the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u24	Dear Member Tonin, thank you for your question. The favourable circumstances when I answer this question is that Slovenia is now only slow, sustained economic recovery, it is said, I can answer this relatively difficult question in the light of a new emerging optimism, which is fragile, because we know that we must not make any cardinal mistakes, that we will successfully encourage and facilitate this process by policy, by moving forward with economic growth, by increasing employment, which is the current trend that I do not list any other favourable trends that can give us at least some real optimism. Of course, the government wants to accelerate the process of effective restructuring of the economy. We agree that this is of utmost importance. We note not only what has happened in the past, all these bad, past banking and other practices, but also that banks are excessively held back to this process and are absolutely under-incentivising it. The Ministry of Finance is already preparing a recast of the Law on Measures to Enhance Bank Stability in order to involve the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, i.e. the DUTB, more actively in the restructuring of companies. The law will introduce additional instruments to speed up corporate debt and business restructuring. The DUTB will strengthen the role of banks, creditors and owners in the restructuring of businesses by means of an amendment. In addition to these legislative measures, which will soon also come to the National Assembly, where you will examine them and hope to adopt them in this direction, I would say that, with the change in the structure of the DUTB administration itself, where we have replaced three of the four non-executive directors, we are looking at the fact that we have chosen these three new members, who have experience in restructuring companies, and we have also devoted this particular attention to this, which we have already made publicly available several times. We are aware that especially in the past DutB has been too busy to address some other shortcomings, with sales, and not enough that companies with some development models, with some perspective, where this social aspect, jobs or even incentives should also be protected, are therefore underly engaged in restructuring in the DUTB. In the area of insolvency law, we do not foresee system interventions, but we will strengthen the effectiveness of the courts in implementing this legislation. This is also addressed by a working group dealing with operational issues for the effective implementation of the law, with renewed insolvency legislation with new instruments such as voluntary restructuring and simplified enforcement already producing good results. In January, the government also set up an inter-resort working group to restructure and resilient businesses, which is monitoring progress in restructuring and proposing new systemic measures. We are also working to help companies with a long-term survival potential, which, however, have a tax debt arising from the circumstances of the economic crisis, with specific measures to prevent their tax debt from falling into insolvency. Here we study a lot of things and take different measures, as I would say, we are preparing concrete as well as systemic measures. With the restructuring processes, we are also successfully reducing the volume of bad credits in banks and thereby increasing the stability of the banking system, so in particular, the Government repeatedly reiterates, because its powers here are limited, that in banks that have received State aid with tax money, these restructuring processes must be absolutely accelerated, thus eliminating this so-called credit crunch and actively participating in everything you think should be taken up. Of course, for all of this, it is also important to create an enabling overall economic environment and in this area we are preparing a strategy for the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy and we are doing our utmost to reverse negative trends where they have not yet been reversed in a positive way, in order to eliminate in some way those structures of weakness in our economy, in public administration and everywhere that have a negative impact on the possibilities of restructuring the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u25	Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u26	The restructuring of businesses is crucial. It depends on whether the company continues to live or will finally come to life. It depends on whether the matter is going to fail or whether we are going to create some new foundations on which the company can live, also pay taxes to the state and from which the whole bicycle will spin. In your reply, you have announced that you are planning certain amendments to the Banks Stability Act, but that you are not planning any concrete corrections to insolvency legislation adopted in December 2013 and in some ways constitutes the legal basis for the systemic extension of large and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. enterprises with more than 50 employees. This systemic extension was regulated in the form of preventive restructuring. Preventive restructuring is intended for companies which are not yet in insolvency proceedings but are likely to enter insolvency status within one year. This law, which has been passed, does not even know what the concrete effects of the implementation are, so I think that we can rightly expect the government to present concrete numbers of the preventive restructuring procedures initiated and completed. What I think is even more crucial is that we have already warned in the process of adopting this legislation in New Slovenia that it is a law that does not give the legal basis for the deleveraging of micro and small businesses. And it's these micro and small businesses that are the biggest. So my complementary question is: What will your government do to help these micro-enterprises, so that they can effectively repay, restructure and finally recover, because this also depends on the fate of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u27	The Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, will complete his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. First of all, let me reiterate that insolvency legislation, according to our assessment, does not need to be amended at this point in time, because it has started to apply well in practice. The first results of the additions and amendments already adopted are visible. In fact, we are now monitoring this, and of course we will present the numbers, I agree that they can be very useful, and we will strengthen, as I said, the effectiveness of the courts in its implementation. That is why we also have a special working group. And here we are making an effort to monitor the matter intensively, analyse it, and if it turns out that there is an additional need to amend the legislation, we will propose this to the National Assembly. I did not mention earlier that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is also preparing a new Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. This is in order to implement the European principles of restructuring and rescue businesses with minimum budget participation and through the use of a guarantee scheme to reduce the risks of banks and improve the liquidity of the economy. I think that there is also a part of the response to micro and small enterprises here, because I would like to point out that the government does not wish to forget this type of business. This is also our special Slovenian wealth and, therefore, in these frameworks I have mentioned, we will also be absolutely careful to stimulate and assist in the release of credit cramps and other methods so that they can also survive and prosper such companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u29	Mag. Matthew Tonin has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a general debate on the issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u30	The answers to the Prime Minister and my questions, I think, have made it clear that this topic requires further debate in Parliament in order to make such a debate useful. We have so far dealt with large mastodonts, banks and other large companies, which we have practically all dealt with, from the opposition to the government, what the state will do to ensure that they do not fail. In all this work for the big ones, if I may say so, too many times have been forgotten about these small family companies, which in Slovenia are the vast majority, which leave Slovenia or fall. In addition to the government measures referred to by the President of the Government, I believe that other stakeholders are also important in this restructuring and change of certain economic climate. And I'm gonna point one out. This is the Bank of Slovenia, which can play an important and active role in the restructuring of companies. If you read daily newspapers, then you can find that Banka Slovenije, for example, is very intensively involved in restructuring some companies. The last article revealed that in the event of the restructuring of Mr Petan’s DZS debts, some Bank of Slovenia employees actively engaged in restructuring, while other companies – just last week – called me an entrepreneur from a Celje, very successful, certainly all of you know him, and said that he had made an agreement with five banks that had already signed him to agree on how to restructure the company, and in five days, a concrete bank changed its mind and changed its decision. And that is, for example, a very specific thing, where it is clearly shown that if one thing is agreed, it is not possible from the point of view of good practice or should not be possible to change it all the way from today to tomorrow. And that is one reason why I think we should have this debate in Parliament. But the second reason is, as I said before, that we give little attention to small and micro-enterprises. I am sure that the parliamentary debate could also add some stone in the mosaic to the fact that the Slovenian economy could be easier and better breathed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u31	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Fourthly, Mr Franc Jurša will ask the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Dear Mr. President! In the past month, when the budget rebalancing was adopted for 2015 and the amendment to the Budget Implementation Act for 2014 and 2015, following certain tensions and complications, agreement was reached on the implementation of the pension coordination in January 2016, subject to 2.5% GDP growth in 2014. It was also agreed that funds would be made available for this purpose in the 2016 budget. Since Desus is a partner that we believe and trust in respect for the agreed agreement, it is precisely because of this compromise reached on the postponement of the reconciliation of pension rebalancing that we have also supported. This year's budget deficit is kept below 3%. A few days later, exactly 26. In February, at the meeting of the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and their positive decision on the extraordinary coordination of pensions, you, Mr President, have clearly recalled the coalition compromise reached a few days ago and made a clear commitment to re-coordination of pensions at the beginning of next year. Regardless of the compromise that has been reached just before we voted on the rebalancing ourselves in the National Assembly, and despite some of your concrete statements later on in this regard, Members Desus later, when negotiations with the Minister of Finance regarding the fiscal rule, took us a bit of a surprise, in fact, I would have said that we were already amazed at the statements made in our parliamentary group because we did not confirm the agreement reached between you, Mr President, and also those of us who participated in these talks. Given that the budget framework is already being prepared for the following year, it is absolutely appropriate and expected that from the start all of us play a fair game so as not to lead to unpleasant situations at the conclusion of the action when the National Assembly adopts the budget for the following year. I therefore ask you once again and ask you to make a concrete statement on what you have already stated in the future regarding the coordination of pensions. Our pensioners and pensioners, according to Slovenia – not Desus, expect a clear and concrete answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u33	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Ambassador Jursha. Let me immediately say that, just as I have done so far, I will stick to and adhere to my political commitments, which I am about to make publicly available. It is true that, as you know, we are in a difficult situation where the desires of this coalition are intertwined over and over again, because I think that we are thinking here all three coalition partners in a similar way, in order to bring a little more to people's salaries as soon as possible, a little more to the standard in order to allow them generally easier to co-exist in this society, i.e. a higher standard. This is especially true of our orientation towards those most vulnerable social groups, including pensioners. Of course, we are all aware at the same time, and he probably wanted to point out to the Minister of Finance that we can do all of this in some sustainable public financial framework, which is, of course, also, I am sure, your conduct and behaviour that we all have in the government and in our space. However, when such a commitment is made, as I expressed it under our common agreement just before the adoption of the 2015 balance, this commitment is and must be kept. Here the government will make every effort to fulfill this commitment. I am aware that pensions have not been harmonised for some time now and that this crisis has generally affected specific groups of pensioners. Of course, I would like to say that, earlier, when I said that economic indicators are good at this point, we have obviously achieved or exceeded 2.5% of the growth in informal data, which is a condition for such coordination of pensions in the future, that I count and appeal to all the factors in politics and even in the coalition, that we are taking those paths to ensure, at the same time, adequate public financial sustainability and that we are also striving for those projects that will lead to the necessary structural reforms, to adequate fiscal consolidation. There will be no doubt that, at this point, I should quote what I am actually saying with the coalition partners, i.e. with the representatives of both parties, he also said about Television Slovenia and what your party president has said so sympatheticly that now that I have said so, he will trust it. I said that we are bound by the coalition agreement and that in the event of this higher economic growth, which I mentioned, we should then approach the coordination of pensions, but since this is not possible in 2015, we will try to do so in 2016. And that's our deal now. You also summarized this agreement in the question of when you said that we agreed to implement the reconciliation of pensions at the beginning of the year, i.e. in January 2016, at the rate of 2.5% GDP growth in 2014. That is why we must all work together now to achieve this agreement. That would be my answer to your question today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u35	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to request that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u36	However, I must admit that I am somehow satisfied, but not entirely, with the answer. Of course, Mr President, I would also like to address you with one simple, simple question. I think that you are aware that the reconciliation of pensions is not an increase in pensions, but that the coordination of pensions is actually a reconciliation with wage growth and with the growth of living costs. I don't think I have to answer because I'm sure you understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u37	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u38	More out of politeness. Of course, Mr Jurša, I understand this, as I also understand that the goal of this government is not a nuisance, some would say a presentation of economic growth, an increase in credit ratings, a fall in interest. The aim of this government is to enable a Slovenian man to live a decent life. I'm thinking of a common goal. I'm saying, I'm sure, on behalf of everyone here. Everyone has a vision of how to do this. This government has its own vision, it is already very clear. It is true, however, that, due to the missed opportunities in the past, this government must now also accept and face some challenging challenges both in the field of public finances and in the field of social affairs. This is a very difficult task, and I would like to stress that the path towards this goal, which we are pursuing together, is not easy, but I think we are all committed to it. But I'm sure I'm committed to him, and of course I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u39	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Mumorr, will ask the Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor! I would like to ask you a question about Telekom's privatisation procedures, d.d. It is known that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision in June 2013 on the disposal of capital investment owned by the Republic of Slovenia. It has been more than nine months since the non-binding offers for the sale of this company. In the media, we can track information that procedures and deadlines for the submission of binding tenders are moving away. I'm interested and I'm asking you a question as a departmental ministry: Where are the reasons why the deadline for the binding offer is moving away and, in particular, where are the reasons and when this deadline for the submission of binding tenders for the purchase of the shares of the Republic of Slovenia in Telekom d.d. has also become binding when can we expect this? It is my personal opinion that all these procedures that have been taking place over the past period and that, over time, buyers are being acquired and the country is losing its prices by moving forward with the tenders it is supposed to receive, in particular the binding ones. We also know that Telekom’s last quarter has not done as it would have, and as a result, it is likely that when it postpones this deadline for the submission of binding tenders, all procedures will have to be repeated in some way – from the review of business results to the review of all actions and open items that can be traced to the court. I politely ask if you can answer my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u41	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u42	Dear Member of the Mags. Marko Pogačnik, thank you for asking. The procedure for selling State investments to Telekom Slovenije is based, as you have already said, on the decision of the National Assembly of 21. 6. 2013 which gave consent to alienate investments in Telekom Republika Slovenije, Kad, Sod, Blue Insurance, DSU and PDP. And then it was given to the Court, now SDH, to carry out these procedures. SDH shall conduct these procedures independently and independently. The government does not have direct information on the procedures themselves, so I am giving you the answer given by SDH below. As a result of the decisions taken in 2014, there was a certain delay in time, which means that, in accordance with comparable international practice, investors needed to be provided with up-to-date information on the company which reflected the company's business and activities during the interim period. Complementary reports on prudential checks of the company had to be completed and the data room complemented. All of this had to be ensured before the formal start of the sales process, as you know, was stopped. The activities also coincided with the end of 2014, and investors expected that all the reports would also relate to the situation at the end of 2014 and not only to the situation at the end of the third quarter of 2014, as previously foreseen, which could only be ensured in February 2015. In view of the scope of the documentation, investors requested that they have sufficient time to review all the data collected necessary to properly understand the situation in society and to assess its potential for future development. During this period, there was also an intensive coordination of the sales documentation with the tenderers with a view to ensuring the best possible final terms of sale for the shareholders and the company Telekom, d.d. We have once again asked for more accurate information on this process, where it is now and when it is expected. They answered our next question. With regard to your call, we would like to inform you that we have also aligned the draft reply to the question raised with the advisory company, which is a financial consultant, because it is sensitive information whose disclosure could harm the successful conclusion of the sales process. In the submitted draft reply — this is the one I mentioned earlier — the question put forward included the main reasons for explaining the time frame of the sales procedure. They stressed, however, that they ensure that the last short delay in the deadline for the submission of binding tenders was solely due to the increased competitiveness of the sales process.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u43	Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I thank you, Madam Minister, for this part of the reply, although in this reply I miss the time frame at least to indicate whether this will continue until the beginning of this summer or this matter will be extended. This means, I wonder when this deadline should be for the submission of binding tenders. I personally believe that this procedure, the disclosure of this information, is likely to have no undue impact on the reduction of the selling price or even to jeopardise any sales process. I am convinced that this is one transparent information that should be given by the offer. We know that sales procedures are not being renewed here, but that they are likely to be a deadline for the submission of binding offers by those who have already shown some interest in the sales process itself. There is no doubt, however, that, together, the question arises whether this postponement of the tender for the submission of binding tenders does not also have the effect of a disagreement within the Government itself with regard to the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. We all know that it is likely that the new Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding will have an important word here. I want to know: Is there any reason why the policy of the Government of Mir Cerar cannot be unified with regard to the appointment of supervisors in SDH, or does this have any connection? And last but not least, I'm curious: As Finance Minister, have you been informed of the analysis commissioned by the Minister of Defence to the Defence Intelligence in relation to positive and negative [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The privatisation of Telekom? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u45	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Like I said, I wouldn't want to interfere with this procedure, because I don't even have the authority to do it, but it's supposed to be in the short term before summer, according to my information. That's how much my information is. As regards SDH monitors, as has been reported to the public and as you probably know, the procedure by the Ministry of Finance has been completed, the proposal has been sent to the government. Various opinions on the quality of the candidates proposed by the Ministry of Finance emerged from the government, and finally the view prevailed that the dispute between at least two candidates was a reason for rejecting the whole list and for the process to be repeated. With the privatisation of Telekom and the other 15 companies, the remaining 12 on the list have nothing to do with it. But I wasn't informed of this analysis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Luka Mesec, Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for your word and a lovely greeting, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! My question will touch on privatisation. One of the main pre-election promises of the then Mir Cerar party was transparent, thoughtful, strategically oriented, smart privatisation. The policies that this government, led by the Modern Centre Party, has implemented in recent months could not be further from these promises. The airport was sold, sales procedures for the New Credit Bank Maribor are under way and the government is still delaying with the strategy and in particular with the classification of state investments. At the same time, it seems that the government does not intend to include the remaining 12 from that infamous list of 15 companies in this strategy. So, let's say there's no way for Telekom to judge whether it's a strategic company or not. And that's why I'm here first: Why does the Government not hope to put these remaining 12 companies on the list of 15 into this strategy? Why, for example, if Prime Minister Miro Cerar said on public television on January 12th, I quote: "The fact is that these 15 companies were placed on the list quite unstrategically, I would say non-systematic, without some solid logic." End of quote. Then why don't you put them in strategy and classification? In addition, I am interested in the opinions on the two privatisations that are now coming to an end. Firstly, regarding the sale of the New Credit Bank Maribor. This is a bank in which the country has invested more than a billion euros over the past two years. A bank that shows, if I'm not mistaken, 624 million book value. On Friday, however, we read in the daily newspaper that the sale was now concluded to the US fund Apollo, which was to be purchased for 200 million euros. It says: How can you sell a bank in which the country has invested more than a billion euros for 200 million euros? And a second time. Since you're advocating strategic privatisation, I'd like to know: How can you sell the second largest Slovenian bank fund known to be a speculative capital fund? So the most likely scenario will be that this fund will drain the bank, because it has bought it essentially below the price and will simply sell it forward. How can you advocate such privatisation as strategic? And just for a little while about Cincarna Celje. The Celje snitch has two problems. First time. The problem is land rehabilitation around the zinc factory. I don't know how you can guarantee that the new private owner will fix them. And a second time. It's a job issue. It's a very heterogeneous company. We have parts that produce a lot of added value, and we have parts that employ 400 workers who produce slightly less value added and I'm interested in: How will you ensure that this scenario is not repeated so many times that the new owner will simply be those 400 workers who are employed in less profitable departments, simply lay off and the state will remain? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u50	Dear Member Luka Mesec, with regard to your questions first a few answers about Telekom. With regard to this verification of the validity of the sales of Telekom, NKBM and other companies for sale from this list, twelve remaining, in view of the criteria set out in the proposal for a capital investment management strategy of the State, it should be pointed out that the State Chamber of Sales Decisions of these companies has already adopted 21. 6. 2013 on the basis of the arguments drawn up by the current government. The sale of 12 companies on the 15th list has not yet been completed and therefore all these companies are formally owned by the State and are therefore an integral part of the strategy. Of course, all these companies are clearly marked by an explanation that the National Assembly has already taken decisions on their sale, so that even after the adoption of the strategy they will remain portfolios and the sales procedures will continue. The reasons for this have already been clarified by the Government on several occasions when your requests for annulment of the decision of the National Assembly on the sale of 15 state companies. We have done a very in-depth analysis of what are the benefits, the downsides of changing this decision in the middle of sales procedures. We've found that the negatives are far greater than the positives. The negative consequences that would follow the repeal of this Decision would have a significant impact, in addition to costs and lawsuits, on the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia in international financial markets, and thus, of course, on the conditions of the Slovenian economy, which, with these improvements in conditions in financial markets abroad, is now in a completely different position and is significantly more competitive, as well as the country with these thirty billion debts, can be indebted at a purely different rate than would have been lost. In the case of NKBM, it should also be noted that the bank could have been recapitalised on the basis of clear and unequivocal commitments to the European Commission from the point of view of State aid, namely that Slovenia would sell the bank no later than 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also worth noting that only three of the 15 companies for sale were directly owned by the Republic of Slovenia. However, the common point of all these companies is that the country lost its voting right at the end of 2012 and at the beginning of 2013 on the basis of the ATVP Decision. In the case of Telekom Slovenije, this means, in particular today, that the State of Slovenia, SDH and Kad, despite 72.38% ownership, does not have voting rights or rights to manage Telekom Slovenije, and therefore is actually managed by minority owners. With regard to the price being discussed, I do not know the price at which the purchase contract will be concluded. However, manipulating one billion and getting 200 million for the bank is actually just manipulation, because one billion of us have invested in covering the huge hole that was in that bank, and thus only to compensate for the funds that were not available to maintain the value of the deposits that were in that bank and that investors in the banks would not lose their assets and their deposits. Of course, the bank is sold on comparable terms as sold abroad. The only criterion for whether or not the price is appropriate is the criterion of how such banks are sold abroad. This is usually indicated as a percentage of the book value or any other percentage or multiplier. And that'll be the only criterion, and everything else is a delusion. With regard to the other companies that are still in the sale of these 12, I can only say, as I said before, that the country, it is said, does not have direct control over this because we have put the system in line with these OECD guidelines, that we have two independent institutions, namely the DUTB and the SDH, in particular the SDH, manages state capital investments and they make decisions independently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Do you require a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer. If you don't mind, I'd like to state three objections first. First time. You say that the decision to sell these 12 companies has already been made. Yes, but without any parameters, no way we're gonna sell, not ever, not in any way. That's why I want to know: Why is the privatisation of these companies necessary now if we have never made such a commitment anywhere? Another time. With regard to NKBM, you yourself said that the commitment was to sell it by the end of 2016. I want to know: Why is it sold in the middle or in the first half of 2015, and this to Apollo's speculative fund, probably below the price? Third time. You're saying that one billion was invested in this bank to cover its hole. Perhaps, but the fact is that the bank currently has over 20% capital adequacy, which is once more than prescribed. It is said that the new owner will simply be able to take 10% out. And secondly, the bank shows 624 million bookkeeping value. So this money in the bank is still, it wasn't thrown into some hole without a bottom. So much for answers. I want to know one more thing. While we are talking about these companies, there is a silent privatisation in a bad bank. Radenska sold herself recently, now we hear that it was essentially a tycoon takeover, both the biggest Slovenian brewery, Union and Laško, sold by Elan. And I want to know: Why did the Government of these companies, the largest Slovenian brands established over the decades to obtain the status they enjoy today, why did the Government not provide for these companies to be included in the strategy and classification? Why do the biggest Slovenian brands not deserve to be judged whether they are strategic companies or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The last part is an additional question, but it's just a supplement. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As I said earlier about these companies, which were designated for privatisation in 2013, an institution was established and sales procedures were initiated. When these sales procedures were in different stages, we did an analysis. And I've talked about this analysis before about what stopping would mean, of course, the negative effects would be significantly greater than positive. With regard to NKBM, why are you selling 2015 and not 2016, just before you arrive. That's because then I would really lower the value if I waited until the end because everyone would know you had to sell. As I said before, you always point out, at a price. Once again, the price that is appropriate is the appropriate price for such banks today in these markets. With regard to the capital adequacy of the bank. Capital adequacy is appropriate. As we saw in the stress test, it's exactly the way it was supposed to be. Some recapitalisation of 30 million was still needed this year from profits. In short, right on the border. Why is it 20%? Because on the other hand, you have to look at how much capital adequacy is, and how much bad investment there is. Our NKBM has a far-reaching over-average level of poor investment. What is a book value and what is actually a value achieved – the difference is very clear. The price that someone is willing to pay for any capital investment depends on the future expected cash flows as much as this investment would bring me, no matter how much its book value is today. Therefore, these capital investments are also sold and purchased by a multiplier of book value. Could be 0.5, could be 0.3, could be 2, could be 4, depending on what you can do with such an investment in the future. But I'd say this about quiet privatisation. DUTB pulled loans from banks. And these loans are managed instead of banks. He's doing what the banks would do. Banks would try to maximize the knowledge of these loans in order to preserve the value of deposits. And that's what DUTB does. And that's not SDH.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you very much. You're asking me to do it on a procedural basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u56	Yeah, well, actually, if I may have a little more controversy. For this last thing you said that a bad bank does what banks would do, it's an optimized value, it's basically a different position from what you said to Mr. Tonin, Dr. Cerar, who said that this bad bank really works now, but that it needs to be focused on restructuring businesses, but not just looking at value optimization. There seems to be a discrepancy between the members of the government in what the bad bank's tasks are supposed to be. Another time. I propose that the silent privatisation that is going on behind our backs be discussed in the National Assembly. As we see, the second largest Slovenian bank is being sold to the speculative fund of speculative capital. Her future is being questioned. The biggest Slovenian brands are sold, such as Radenska, Elan, Pivovarna Union, Pivovarna Laško, and the public knows nothing about this. The National Assembly is looking away, so I propose that these matters be discussed, because these are key decisions for the future of the Slovenian economy and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 31 March, in the framework of the votes. Dr Jasna Murgelj will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! From difficult financial debates to people who can't care for different reasons for themselves. In Slovenia we still do not have a uniformly regulated system of long-term care for chronically ill, disabled and weak persons who need the help of others in carrying out everyday tasks. Thus for several years and after some unsuccessful attempts, we still do not have a law that will systematically regulate the area of long-term care and personal assistance and special insurance for it. The rules and areas dealing with long-term care for those in need are uncoordinated and long-term care should, on the other hand, be an integral part of the country's comprehensive social policy. It is also essential that the population in Slovenia is old and that there will be a systemic need to take care of this area. The need to regulate long-term care has also been pointed out several times by the professional public. Then we have another area. The area governed by the Social Protection Act of 1983, for which the Constitutional Court has already found that it is unconstitutional, already in 2007 and for which appropriate arrangements need to be found. With regard to these two areas, the Minister would ask the following questions: How far is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in the preparation of the law on long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance, or what will this law be called in the future? At what stage is the preparation of a new law, a law that would replace this law on social protection for mentally and physically affected persons? So it's supposed to be a social inclusion law. When will these two laws be definitively prepared and forwarded to Parliamentary Procedure? The participation of civil society is also essential in the preparation and adoption of these laws, so I would ask the Minister to reply: How is civil society involved in the drafting of these two laws? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, Dr. Jasna Murgel, thank you for asking. As regards long-term care, I would point out at the outset that the coalition agreement on government cooperation exposes the establishment of long-term care as one of the priority points. In line with this direction of the coalition agreement, I named last year's Inter-Resort Working Group, which continues with the work that has already been started. The basis for drafting the new law is the starting points adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in September 2013. It is crucial to establish a law aimed at introducing solidarity financing in the area of long-term care based on the principles of social security and ensuring a sustainable financial system of long-term care, ensuring access to quality individualised services or the rights of long-term care for all the people in need, with priority and priority given to services that will help people stay in their home environment for longer periods of time, achieving greater efficiency, transparency of the resources we invest in long-term care, linking formal and informal providers of long-term care in a functionally comprehensive, rational and efficient system, providing support to persons with disabilities in the implementation of those activities related to social inclusion and the use of modern information technology in the area of long-term care, simplification and renewal of procedures related to the identification, provision of support to persons with disabilities in the implementation of those activities related to social inclusion and the promotion of individual responsibility. So there's a system, the task force works. In fact, the regulatory plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides for this proposal to be considered this year. We have also committed ourselves to drafting legislation in the Social Agreement, but it must be said here that long-term care as a new system is strongly linked to both the health and social sectors, and health care reform is also essential, especially health care financing, so that we can establish this system. And here the Minister is making an enormous effort to prepare the review and the draft amendment of this healthcare work as quickly as possible by the end of the year, so that the long-term care that is being established will also have to be linked to the health change. And this is one of the elements that represents a certain obstacle, but at the Ministry we are aware of this importance, including a long-lived society, not only those who come, older ones, but all those who today are hard to pay home for the elderly. We know what the home funding system is, and the differences between the congregations are very great, so we are aware of that. The ministry will present a draft proposal, which will then be presented in a longer public debate and we want to involve the public, but we expect it to be in the second half of the year. In fact, I would like the procedure in the National Assembly to begin in 2016. However, there will also be a transitional period, as it is a matter of establishing a new system. You're exposing another very problematic area, thank you for that. It is, as you mentioned, a law on social protection of mentally and physically affected persons. We have written down this year in the Government's regulatory plan to draft the Social Inclusion Act by December 2015. I would like to inform you that we are currently at the Ministry collecting proposals for appointment to the working group to adopt the professional starting points for a new regulation and, in the second phase, to review the draft prepared law of the Ministry of Labour and to identify itself for key systemic changes. Indeed, it is clear from this that we want to involve the general public as much as possible in this regard. Unfortunately, things are also financially connected, always so, but we will work together and support the Government for the solutions that are necessary for this area. In particular, it is possible to move between different groups, so that there is not one decision that applies for life but for the greater accuracy of the social inclusion system of people with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Dear Madam Secretary! With regard to the preparation of the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation and its network, we have already called an urgent meeting of the Health Committee in the Slovenian Democratic Party in early February. This meeting was mainly referred to the initiative of the directors of public institutions and mayors who assessed that they did not have information on the very course of the preparation of this Regulation or were convinced that something was being hidden from them. At this urgent meeting of the Health Committee, there was also a desire, or demand, to have a profession present in the preparation of the Regulation. Minister, you said at that emergency session that your interest was sincere, well-meaning, in favour of people for better care. I believe you. You said we should give you two, three weeks of time and lock up your people and leave no one out until you've brought this rule into line. Now I hope, for a little joke, a little bit that you left them out or as much information as I have, I know that one of you has even escaped from this project group or you've cancelled it. That's what you said on February 13th. On March 2nd, I asked you again at the meeting of the National Assembly on this issue, and then you said, "Give us two to three weeks more time to prepare this regulation". I must say that, at that time, you have also very vehemently replied that the drafts are pretending to be put into consideration, if possible, I repeat, if possible, to the directors of public institutions and to the mayors. And you said you were only asking us for two more weeks of patience so that you could fully prepare this rule. Now it's also been these two weeks, so I'm asking you once again the question: At what stage of preparation is the emergency medical service regulation? When do you expect this Regulation to enter into force? Do you already have a time-table, in line with the directors of public institutions and with the mayors, regarding field visits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. Yeah, it's just like you said. Let me tell you that the draft regulation on emergency medical care, along with the annexes, is ready. It shall be in the final edition or in internal coordination with all competent services as well as with the heads of working groups. As you know, this is a very important matter that we have also discussed at this extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee for a transitional period. Why for a transitional period? In order to enable emergency centres, health centres and hospitals to be adequately prepared for the final implementation when this system part of the Regulation enters into force. We are just now in the stage where we are coordinating these so-called transitional provisions. By 15 April it will be prepared and coordinated schedule of visits to the Republic of Slovenia, as promised. Let me say here that I would not now repeat myself, because this is a key issue, that the component of the regulation is also an annex, with the entire network, not only emergency centres, but also satellite emergency centres with schedules, the number of vehicles of the ambulances, emergency ambulances and teams. However, we will be with all these local groups and stakeholders, especially those most affected by this, these are the directors of health homes and also the mayors of municipalities, which will be covered by the individual emergency centre, and we will visit them and present this network to them. Let me say that, on the occasion of the government's visit to the region of Koroška, we also had some kind of discussion on how this matter will take place. The transitional provisions will know what will happen on 1 January 2016. As I have already said, there are also final stages of preparations for the organisation and construction of dispatch centres, which will actually enable these emergency centres to function fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Do you require a supplement? Here you go, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thanks again for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you understand that all these questions that have already been raised would not come to light if you would stick to an agreement at the Ministry or what you said at the emergency meeting first, two to three weeks, and that you would present everywhere, then you said at the regular meeting, two more weeks to go to the field and present the emergency medical regulations, if possible. And that's how we get our doubts. This doubt also arose, at least so we were informed that on 17 March there was also an extraordinary assembly of public institutions in Slovenia, and on 24 March there was also a consultation on the reorganisation of emergency medical care in Zasavje. You have also been invited to this meeting by the Ministry’s professional staff, but unfortunately no one has attended this meeting, nor have you sent an apology, which was seen very negatively by the presence. Well, I'm glad to have this dedication in Zagorje, because it was also attended by representatives of the coalition. And all the representatives, there were three more besides me, assured those present that they would insist on presenting the draft regulation of the network on the ground. I ask you again, Madam Minister: Will the presentation be available to all directors of public institutions or regions, and will they be able to make comments at these consultations, which will then be taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for that additional question. Let me apologize for the non-participation or absence of our director of the Directorate. Unfortunately, he had to go to Brussels one day earlier than anticipated. However, I apologize for the failure of the administrative services to send apologies for this consultation in Zasavje. Yeah, the answer is yes. Of course they will, because this is the purpose of the public decomposition and the presentation that they will be able to make comments to present to them in fact how this will take place. This will then also be the basis for any changes or additions to the Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u70	Dear Minister, I know you will understand. In view of this, I do not know if we can entirely believe that this matter will come into force or that you will be 15. 4. Starting with the presentation of this Regulation on the ground, I would like to request that a public debate be held on this subject in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your request will be voted on tomorrow, 31 March, under the terms of the vote. Mr Jožef Horvat will raise the question to the Minister for Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk. The last one's gone. Here you go, Mr. Joze Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, dear colleague and colleague! With regard to the current violation of the so-called "pomurski law", I am primarily asking the oral question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počivalšk, who is the guardian of the said pomurski law, and to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is in some way the custodian of the state budget. The Law on Development Support to the Pomurski Region was adopted in 2009 by the Pomurski Region in the period 2010-2015. The purpose of this Act was to provide additional funding for development support to Pomurje through a comprehensive programme approach. The law adopted aims to accelerate the development of the Pomur region by creating new jobs and maintaining existing ones, establishing development infrastructure and addressing the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, which was particularly painful for the region when larger businesses in the region, such as Pomurka and Mura, collapsed. The Pomurski Law is the legal basis for the provision of dedicated funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of the Pomurska region. It is divided into four measures, the first to be referred to as the Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomeranian Region in the period 2010-2015 as the most important part of the region’s development restructuring, with a legal provision of EUR 33 million for the period 2010-2015. The expiry of this year shall cease to be valid and hence the obligation to provide budgetary resources for these purposes. According to the 2015 budget rebalancing documents of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by the National Assembly, under the law there is insufficient funding for defined development programmes. So this moment the government is in some way already a violator of the so-called "pomurish law". That is why I ask both distinguished ministers: Have you already begun the process of preparing amendments and supplementing the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region? When do you plan to pass the law on the government? What will be the time dynamic in providing the remainder of the financial resources provided for in the pomur law? Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Ambassador Joseph Horvat. I will have to apologize because this question is entirely within the competence of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology and, given my competence, I cannot answer it. The only thing I could say is that, at the beginning of March, MGRT had already submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the development support of Pomurje in the region for the period 2010-2015. However, all the content and financial resources relating to this provided within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology would be welcome if you could address the Minister of Economy, who is indeed responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u75	Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary for that explanation. Of course, I fully accept your explanation, as I also initially said that I addressed the primary question to Minister Zdravek Počvalska. However, what you have said is that the novelty of the Pomurian law is already in inter-resort coordination, a positive signal for me, of course, not for me, especially for the Pomur region. Because, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government, we simply cannot tolerate not all the funds provided by law and also being placed in Pomurje, i.e. those funds, in particular the EUR 33 million envisaged to increase competitiveness in Pomurje. Why can't I tolerate this? This is because unemployment cases have actually deteriorated dramatically since the Employment Service of the Republic of Slovenia, Murska Sobota. At the end of February, 10 thousand 184 people are waiting for work in Pomure. Ten thousand 184 men. Sometimes we operate with a registered unemployment rate, for orientation and for comparison with the Slovenian average, which was 21.4% at the end of January. So dramatic, frantic data and I believe that the government is also monitoring this and that it will actually fully implement its 2009 commitment. Mr President, I will be satisfied with the written reply of Minister Zdravek Pavlovalska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary will answer you in writing. Mr Zvonko Lah will raise the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and to the Minister without a portfolio responsible for the development, strategic projects and cohesion of Alenka Smerkolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am once again asking the question of drawing on cohesion funds. Indeed, last June the government adopted a decision or informed investors that they could start building these 11 cohesion projects with their own resources. In November, on the basis of the conclusions of the four committees, your government also adopted a decision to give priority to these projects in the new financial perspective. The operational programme was also approved in February. A partnership agreement had already been signed. We are now waiting for a regulation that will lay down the rules for drawing from this financial perspective or that these projects will be given a final decision to continue with the parts. We have a new construction season ahead of us. Contractors extend bank guarantees and wonder whether or not this is going to happen. All performers are almost killed by survival and it is very important to them that these buildings started by the castles continue. Investors have also organised themselves so that if phase construction could be possible, some buildings could be completed by the end of the year this year if it was possible to draw on other old financial perspectives. That's how they're organized. Every day is precious, ever since they can continue with the pieces. I think it's in the best interest of all of us. There are also rumors that some projects in progress will be difficult to implement by the end of this year. I hope that we will soon receive the drawing report for the first three months of this year and that it will be clearer there and that we can act as soon as possible. We still have six months of construction seasons to carry out these projects or complete these projects from an old financial perspective. That's why I'm asking you: When will these decisions really take place, and with what certainty can these contractors count on them to continue with these parts?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Smercolj will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Member Lah, thank you for asking. Some history first. Indeed, last June's government instructed municipalities in these 11 environmental projects to start implementing projects within their own resources. Some were hoping to do so, and they actually started building, some not. What we have done as a new government in November this year is that we have in fact introduced a criterion of principle that practically allows these 11 environmental projects to take precedence in the operational programme, which is the basis for drawing on cohesion funds in the new perspective. This, of course, is now crucial how quickly we will be able to establish a system. We had a monitoring committee last week in March of this year. The Monitoring Committee is the body that establishes and finalises the criteria and criteria in the new financial perspective. Not only are all the competent departments involved, but all the other partners, both cohesion regions and municipalities, NGOs and the Economic Chamber, are called an economy. In this part, I must say that there has been a little bit of a mix-up in the coordination itself, and I may then have more answers when I have another question from Mrs Andreja Potočnik on this very subject. That is why I would now prefer to focus on these 11 projects. As far as the regulation is concerned, it has been in intersectoral coordination since 20 February. Not everything went smoothly here either, because of course we have quite a few partners. And given that you are all aware that we have problems with the budget and integratively there are virtually no resources, all partners, both the departments and the external partners, want in terms of criteria and criteria and in some way in the regulation to ensure their own free living, because these are the only resources left. Therefore, the discussions and discussions on the subject of this regulation are much more critical because we are not talking about the system itself, but we are talking about how we will be able to satisfy it at all. We've decided to run another lap. In the meantime, the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Government of Law have proposed that the most critical part of the new system, which will in fact allow for projects that will not work, could also be taken away. In fact, we were asked to cover this part not in the regulation, but in the law, in the ZIPS. This week we will put a new proposal for the introduction and amendment of the law on our website, probably this Wednesday or Thursday at the latest. And we believe that, in essence, they will measure, the real establishment of the system, as well as the regulation itself, will go through the government procedure by the end of April. It's the establishment of the system. However, what we have done at this moment for these 11 projects is, for these four great initiatives, we have started our own procedure with JASPERS – I apologize, now I have gone a little too far to speak, Mrs Majcen, I will answer obviously only the complementary question – and in fact we have also maintained the co-financing rate at the same level. So the system will be set up by the end of April, which means about a month late from what we talked about, but I think it's worth it, because we're going to have a better discussion with all the other partners. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u82	Well, I'm glad you're going to try and save the marriage somehow. I would also like to point out that projects that will not be implemented are from an old financial perspective, because fear exists that you are also trying to solve in some way and perhaps by restoring those decisions, for example, for CERO II only some part of the right to spend resources from an old financial perspective, and that some project will be completed or completed by the end of this year. Then I'm interested in continuing: If the Regulation is adopted by the end of April, what is the environmental impact of the report now? In view of the fact that the former Minister of Environment said that, as far as their ministry is concerned, everything had been set up last year, all the projects had been confirmed, the intermediate body no longer had any questions and for them the projects were ready-to-go. What's on it now? because if we go according to the established order of receipt of these environmental reports and permits, it will take about a year or more. We think this is inappropriate, given that these reports are usually obtained during the building permit phase. These projects have all the building permits, even more, these projects are in operation. What if they don't do it? I think, according to our regulations, we could somehow let these projects go with someone [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the consolidation of these projects under new conditions. [[…]] And these projects will be able to continue as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Smercolj will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u84	Yeah, maybe just for a little while. I didn't touch the wedding before. We review existing projects with all the relevant departments monthly. Indeed, some are lagging behind, such as CERO Novo mesto, which you were talking about, is actually becoming evident that there will be no realisation. However, we have not yet received an application or the competent ministry has not yet received a refund application. And until that actually happens, there's practically nothing we can do about it. On the other hand, it is true that every month we go through all projects, we will find out whether it is still provided under existing added spending rights. It is known that we have 185 million more signed contracts there than it actually is, 30 million, if I recall correctly, is from this New City. For the time being, enough of these funds, which have already been agreed upon in advance, is yet to come. And those projects that run and run and run normally for the time being still provide 100% of the pumping. But I'm not going away from the fact that if it happens to us during the year because we don't know what's going on, whatever else is going on here is going to fall, then of course I'm not saying that we wouldn't be able to save any project even in the framework of 2007-2013. Thank you. However, it is possible for a competent minister to assess the impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Will you be there, Mrs. Irene Maycen? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Mr. Lah! In the Ministry's part, the amendment to the Regulation, which deals with environmental consensus, in particular to reduce the threshold for when and when the ODS should be acquired, which is certain to allow, in the search for such consents, to obtain building permits for projects where construction has already been obtained, a great deal of assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I would still use this procedural proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on the pressing issue. I am pleased, however, that the regulation will be amended, or that the criteria will be reduced, and that these projects will have any of them, or that they will be launched without any additional administration. I think all the projects that were ready were already going through some kind of review that wasn't just like that. The sharpening of these criteria under the new regulation would be considered very well, because I think that there is a lot of object in there that does not need to be tested according to these criteria. I hope that these projects will then go through without the required PSC. There may be a short conclusion by the Ministry that the decisions will indeed be issued there within a short period of time after the adoption of this Regulation. Otherwise, operators themselves and projects will have a major problem when they stand, stand, performers will have to go to other parts and create only economic damage. I think we should also be aware of this in the ministries and the government and really speed it up as soon as possible. I hope that you will also get a decision returned and that some project will be covered from an old financial perspective, because I think at the end of the year this will be good for you too. Do not think that we are completely complicated, we also want to help you on the one hand, but on the other hand we are under the pressure of all these operators and investors that we have promised them together that these projects will be implemented. Some already have difficulty waiting for drinking water, and the solution to the discharge and treatment of wastewater is the majority of these projects. I hope that this proposal will go through in the vote and that we will also hold one such debate, because I think that the right time is now spring for how to continue to draw on these cohesion funds, both old and new financial perspectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Dear Minister, Vila Vipolje is a monument of state importance and an extraordinary example of Renaissance profane architecture following a Venetian model. In 2013, its renovation was completed at the end of last year and the opening of the castle was announced for this autumn. The Republic of Slovenia has dedicated EUR 11 million to rebuilding the Vipolje Castle, the second largest state investment in cultural infrastructure in recent times. Of course, it is more than excellent that the country has restored this remarkable monument. As a Member I come from this region, I am grateful that the country has taken this necessary step. But there is no doubt an even more challenging task than the investment in castle reconstruction itself occurs at a time when it is necessary to manage and implement the programme. This is linked to additional costs, as illustrated by the examples of the castles we know. Only three castles in Slovenia can support themselves, namely Blejski, Predjamski and Ljubljanski Castle. But even here, public funds are indispensable. As the Brda Municipality website says that the Vipolje Castle will become an intercultural centre at the intersection of two cultures in which congress, educational and cultural activities will take place, I am interested: How many programs and what programme will be available to visitors in the renovated premises of Villa Vipolža? Who will be the manager of the castle and how much funding will the Ministry of Culture devote to the implementation of the programme at annual level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you so much for asking. Mr President, honourable Members, Members and Members of Parliament, Minister and Minister! I very much agree with your findings and, of course, thank you, Your Honor. I'm holding Bon Klanjšček, for that matter. True, Villa Vipolje is a very good potential for the development of tourism and cultural events. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture has decided that Vilo Vipolje, a monument of national importance owned by the Republic of Slovenia, will restore and revive with a programme of multicultural centre led by the future manager, namely the Institute for Tourism, Culture, Youth and Sport Brda, established by the Municipality of Brda, provided that it assumes the obligation of regular ongoing maintenance or those obligations also laid down in the law for the administrator. There will be various activities, workshops and meetings of artists from all areas of culture, educational meetings and workshops of young artists, conference meetings, events, exhibitions and international links of cultural content with Italy, Austria and Croatia. Multicultural events will also be accompanied by a hospitality activity that complements the centre’s offer and, on the other hand, can function on its own. For the purpose of management, a multi-cultural centre programme has been developed by an institution which has already been included in the basic investment programme of Vila Vipolže, as the well-known manager of the renovated facility has been one of the priority criteria in the application for the grant of European grants. I can say that less funds were allocated for the renovation of this castle than originally estimated, so the total project was worth 7 million 330 thousand 71.53 euros. At the same time, the European Union's contribution, as usual, is said to be a larger part, 85%. As far as the entire current content, which is supposed to be at the opening of the Villa Vipolje, which we obtained from the director of the Institute for Tourism, Culture, Youth and Sport Brda, are currently presented. Of course, these contents are still being supplemented and will be fully known when we place the facility in management. However, these contents are being judged in the context of what was originally set. In this way, a permanent exhibition, a presentation of the history of Villa Vipolje, prepared by the Goriška muzeum, was set up in the basement. A European choir singing school will be conducted at the villa with the cross-border cooperation of academic partners from Italy and Austria. Then collaborate with Nova from Nova Gorica, Academy of Young Music Talents, where many musicians from Slovenia and Italy will be actively involved. The international school, compositions in cooperation with SAZU, with the involvement of research projects from Slovenia, Italy, Austria and Croatia are expected to participate. The project will include intergenerational cooperation and the integration of vulnerable, vulnerable groups of young musicians as a hub of three cultures through space and time in the modern interpretation of music. It's supposed to be old folk songs in new musical disguises, professional research Modernizing the Old People's Music. The theatre performances of SNG Nova Gorica are then scheduled to take place here, namely, SNG Nova Gorica is expected to work with at least six performances a year in the villa. Then there was Gradnikov's room where we could present new works and manuscripts and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u93	Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I'm very concerned about something. The municipality of Brda is 6 000 inhabitants and has an annual budget of €6.7 million. It is therefore almost impossible to fully absorb the financing of a demanding and extensive programme, as required by Vila Vipolže. The municipality of Brda was unable to provide even funds for the already approved cultural project Spreaded Museum Brda. The latter best illustrates the abilities of such a small congregation. In addition, I would like to draw attention to €3.6 million worth of reconstruction of the Snežnik Castle, along with ports, which then waited until last year for an appropriate hospitality offer, without which the cultural and tourist offer of such a building complex cannot live. Another example is the €3.6 million renovation of the Pišeca Castle, which still does not have a controller and not a tenant. The Villa Vipolža, regardless of the model renewal, is therefore not in my opinion able to survive solely by means of the local community and by means of the funds obtained in the public tender, but has the potential to develop a specific cultural and tourist offer, but will require stable public funds from both local communities and countries at least at the beginning. That's why I'm asking you: Will you consider how to ensure stable funding and implementation of the programme in Villa Vipolje, which will be proud for all of us and for the region as a development incentive? Let me remind you that Article 67 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture makes it possible to finance programmes that go beyond municipal importance by the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u95	The Minister of Culture Mag is in charge. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much for these additional questions. If I may just finish what else is planned or what they intend to do in Villa Vipolje. So, at the same time, the Summer Youth Festival Tabu of Youth, organised by Miranda Brataševec, in memory of Silvano Furlan. In addition, the Institute for Tourism, Culture, Youth and Sport Brda addressed to the administrative unit Nova Gorica the application for registration of the wedding facility and the congress tourism facility to be carried out in Villa Vipolje. In short, I could say that I also went to see myself when she was even more in the harsh condition of Villa Vipolje, and I also talked to the mayor, including the director of the institution she was talking about. The plans are big. However, as regards funding options, in line with co-financing by the Ministry of Culture, this takes place in accordance with established procedures, in accordance with the law. So even if this is the 67th article you spoke of, then it must be proved that it is such programmes, which are of course of wider interest, which are not, we can say, something lasting, which is happening there, so that it is really something extraordinary. At the same time, public calls under these established procedures, as well as others applying for programmes at the Ministry of Culture, can also be made available to those who will manage Villa Vipolje. As far as governance is concerned, of course, the law sets out what is involved in management when it comes to these larger investments. Of course, there is a ministry here which owns the facility and which therefore also provides funding for larger investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u97	Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a general debate on the issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u98	In my view, it would be necessary for us to start looking at the development of heritage comprehensively from renewal to management and implementation of the programme. If we do not provide stable support for the lives of this and other state monuments, we will be rerun by Snow White and Peasants. Instead of enjoying a highly restored heritage and the new development incentives that such an facility can bring to the region, we will have to make another unused investment. Therefore, I would like to re-examine the possible application of Article 67 of the Fundamental Law on Culture, which allows the Ministry to finance programmes that go beyond the municipal importance, of course, if you recognize Villa Vipolje as a priority. This will be the only proper arrangement for the operation of Villa Vipolje. Only applications for public tenders will be too little, I think. On the other hand, I think that it would also make sense to have a debate on this subject in the Committee on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u99	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. And now she's going to be Minister of Culture of Mag. Lilliano Bizjak Mlakar asked the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! A colleague in front of me was asking about the castles, and I'm asking about the castles. The state wanted to sell cities, and it changed its mind. Borl, Viltus and Šraibarski Tour were envisaged for sale. As you can see at the Ministry, there is no interest in buying castles. At your ministry, you also gave an explanation that you would be working at the cultural ministry to provide the necessary means of maintenance. As we know for ourselves, there is no funds in the maintenance budget, the castles are failing. For the Borl Castle, the Ministry of Culture provided for reconstruction by the end of 2013 through the European Regional Development Fund. The relevant documentation, relevant consents and building permits are to be obtained. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: At what stage is the rebuilding and maintenance of this castle now? When can we expect events and events to be opened to the public and organized, and what will be its content? I also ask about the castle of Viltus, which loses from year to year. It belongs to a region from which I come alone. The castle has been losing its original form since the closure of the home for the elderly, looting and even gathering drug addicts in these areas. While the competent institutions are very careful about this, the decline is certainly taking place. The inside is completely dug up. The castle loses from year to year and even the original image. The Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017 states that the care for the preservation of cultural heritage is increasingly integrated and complex and extends from the professionalisation of institutions to cultural and spatial entities with the aim of protecting cultural heritage physically from deterioration. Viltuški castle is very important for the Municipality of Selnica ob Drava together with the Tourist Society Selnica ob Drava for the development of tourism, which is an integral part of the development strategy of the municipality. Thus, the Municipality of Selnica near Drava and the tourist society have long been committed to the maintenance of the castle and the arrangement of the castle garden. The castle is important and needs complete reconstruction. There will be a huge financial burden that the local community cannot afford. As early as 1988, a conservatory program was designed to prove that the building complex is in very poor condition and that maintenance and rehabilitation works are needed. The stakes in the castle's renovation will be very high. However, we need less resources to rebuild and organize the park at the Viltuš Castle. The park is an English-style park surrounded by many rare tree species that make sense to preserve. The tourism company has been negotiating with the competent ministry on the possibility of use and regulation since 2013. He loses every year, he loses [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u101	The Minister of Culture Mag is in charge. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member of the Mag. Bojana Muršič, I also thank you for these questions. That's right. As far as castles are concerned, matters are not easy because of the neglect of this area for many years. However, even when I came to this ministry, it was somehow said that the walls would no longer be invested, which, of course, meant the inheritance of what you were talking about. However, I do not think that this is the right approach. Also at last year's meeting of ministers of the European Union in Brussels, a working plan of ministers was adopted by 2018, which set the right cultural heritage among the priorities of the work of Ministers for Culture of the European Union. This is one of the reasons for such an approach that it is the protection, preservation, promotion and development of cultural heritage that is one of the four priorities of our Ministry of Culture's work today. Accordingly, the Ministry, together with the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, is also preparing a strategy for the protection of cultural heritage, a sectoral strategy based on the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and a national programme for culture prepared by the Ministry in cooperation with other departments whose tasks relate to the protection of cultural heritage. The Ministry of Culture is, of course, following the content of the national cultural programme in its work. At the same time, it also examines the implications of the current policy of free transfer or sale of castles with a view to preparing a strategy for the protection of cultural heritage, preparing a report on the implementation of the national programme for culture and, of course, preparing the necessary changes to the national programme for culture. At the same time, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Director of Heritage and also the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture and Media were given the task of acting in accordance with their competences in relation to castles, towns and castles, where there is a risk of their collapse. In this way, the Directorate, together with the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, will draw up a list of heritage, which must be protected without delay by the necessary measures in order to ensure that the heritage does not lose its monumental properties and that the owner is notified to the Inspectorate in the event of a threatened heritage. The Slovenian Cultural and Media Inspectorate was given the task of prioritising the control of endangered cultural heritage in the 2015 work plan, which will aim to protect cultural monuments from further deterioration and, of course, to protect against looting, theft and the like. The castles you're asking about have been sold several times. The price, I can say, has been falling shamelessly, so there was a public talk about the sale of castles. Most of the people who were advertised in connection with sales were critical to the sale of these monuments of national importance. As a member of state, I received letters from those who were disgusted about the sale of this cultural heritage of national importance. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture is preparing an evaluation this year of the implementation of the National Programme for Culture in 2014, and in this context it will also need to prepare, as stated, the necessary changes we are planning in 2016 when the first evaluation of the content of the national programme for culture is known. Among other things, provisions on sales or free removals of monuments of State importance. Free transfers as well as sales to private owners will need to be evaluated. For example, Graščina Sock, which was sold to the private, and the following unpaid transfers, the Garden next to the Fairi villa in Stanjel, the castle of Rihemberk, the complex of the castle Turnišče, part of the Dominican monastery and the Vićava Ptuj building, all three were transferred to the municipality of Ptuj, part of the complex of the castle Kostel na, we can say, an over-indebted municipality with a low budget for the maintenance and renovation of the castle, since the municipality should, according to the information I have received at present, give quite a few budgets for the renovation of the castle, which is likely a threat to the renewal of the castle. Heritage is by definition something society recognizes as [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u103	Mag. Bojana Muršič has the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for finding that there will also be a need to maintain these castles in the future. I'm guessing she didn't finish her word. Nevertheless, I would specifically ask: When can we expect the Borl castle to be opened, and what will be its contents? And second of all, I'm asking: Can the Selnica Tourist Board near Drava for a park next to the Viltuš Castle expect, through a contract of resolution, that it can start to manage the park's basket and use the park for tourist purposes? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u105	The Minister of Culture Mag is in charge. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u106	Allow me to answer the previous question, which also touched the castle, yet Mag. Bon Clanjschek. She referred to the town of Pišece as something that wasn't right, but things weren't right. This castle will be built after the parking lot, which is why we have not yet rented it or managed it, because parking still needs to be carried out. You mentioned the town of Borl. Castle Borl is already, I think, since 2011, I can't remember because there are a lot of castles that I deal with, but I think that in 2011 it was found that it is not safe for visitors. That was the reason he was locked up. Moreover, as far as I am aware, there is also a place where the dars is supposed to be rehabilitated, but because it was not in the budget, this has not been done. That is to say, security, as far as I'm aware, it's just that the security aspects are the ones that don't work. It's not lit either. There's trouble, there's no electricity, and so on. In short, this is the reason that matters have not yet been dealt with, but it is an interest in governance. So we hope that these things that are currently blocking the putting of the Borl castle in management so that we can save them. I don't know if this society has given any role, so I haven't been aware of it myself, but I will certainly ask and then I will tell you in particular when I find out what it really is, because I don't know why this offer should not be appropriate if they have given it in the right way. In short, it is of interest, but it is important to be very careful when it comes to cultural heritage, that is, a monument of national importance. The protection of cultural heritage must be taken care of here. Can't be too hasty here. We have examples of giving to individuals who are catastrophic, both by the municipality or by the state, such as Castle Javornik, Castle Podčetrtek. We have examples of good practices in public property, such as mentioning only Bled or something else or the last time I was in Slovenj Gradc [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u107	Now he'll be a magician to the Minister of Justice. Dr. Vinko Gorenak questioned Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I wouldn't talk about the castles we've been talking about for so long, but about justice. Now I think it is clear from the written nature of the question of parliament that I am asking about the constitutional legal relations between the government, parliament and the judiciary. And to ask you about your views on how to proceed in this area. And in the introduction, because I personally believe that there are many things wrong in this area and that this has been a long time, of course my question of departure is very much beyond your mandate, because I believe that the situation, as it is, has been many years since the independence of a single ministry, is probably not enough to remedy the situation in this area, even if it is full, in full time. So let me put it this way, I think that in 1991 we did set up the constitutional relations that we set up between the judiciary, the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of power, and that in many parts, if we call it simplified, sometimes happy, sometimes less fortunately copied systems in other European countries. Now what we have in our constitution and laws is actually European. It is, according to some principles, under which democratic states operate, but at least the area of the judiciary and where I consider the prosecution to be, in my view, it does not work as it was intended, or as it is in the constitution and laws. In fact, every system, every independent system that has no control mechanisms, basically starts to eat up erosion. And if we also have some relationship and control between Parliament and the government, as we know, there are 50 or 60 Members in the National Assembly after each election, and there can be changes in the government in one way or another, and we see that in the field of justice that is not the case. Justice for a closed system that increasingly visibly protects itself. He protects his own mistakes, protects people, he's not responsive and he's not responsible. That's why I'm actually interested in: How do you view this, or what can we expect from you in your full mandate in this area, which measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u109	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. President of the National Assembly, Ambassador Dr. Vinko Gorenak, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister! First of all, Dr. Gorenak, I'm thrilled that you're still allowing me to be a full term. [[Laugh]] That's the first thing. The other thing is, in one part, I agree with you. Not in yours at times, I think, is beyond criticism of the judiciary, but in the work that relations between key builders that affect access to the judicial system, control of the judicial system, the relationship between authorities, in Slovenia is not optimal. It has evolved over the past 25 years, constitutional frameworks have been given and are more or less comparable to foreign countries, except in one part, where, and this should be said when you say that there are no control mechanisms. They're control mechanisms. Maybe they're not as effective everywhere as they should be. But they are control mechanisms. In a certain part, even bigger than abroad — in that part that we are one of the few countries in Europe where the National Assembly or Parliament appoints judges. In many countries this is left only to the judiciary. I have, and you know, repeatedly stressed that I think there is a need to establish some new ratios of force and power, balance and brake, if you want a better term. For this reason, we also have the adoption in the normative programme, for the first time the adoption of the law on the judiciary, which is supposed to be the first step in this direction. Today the Council of Justice is the primary staff in the Slovenian system and in Europe we have judicial councils that are much stronger and perform most of the functions that you have mentioned yourself, in terms of ensuring the control, control and quality of the judiciary. Today, to a large extent in the Republic of Slovenia, this is done by the Supreme Court, which is extremely strong in this sense and also in the sense of the judiciary, which I do not consider to be bad, because it allowed them, at least in the field of judicial information and so on, to take significant steps forward. They have also been successful in drawing on European funds and so on. What this relationship should be like, we know that there is no unique answer in the professional public either, nor is there any good model that could be taken over from abroad. This has not been discussed in the past. Perhaps you are, I believe that you are aware of the contribution of the Vice-President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mateja Končina Petrnell, in Legal Practice, where she recently presented her view and her vision of the functioning of the Council of Justice in relation to the Supreme Court, for example. It considered that the Supreme Court currently has too many organisational and management tasks and responsibilities in relation to the Council of Justice. In one part, I can agree with that. But if I shorten, because we are not going to get to the end of this today, a wider working group will begin in April to prepare a long-term strategy of the Slovenian judiciary and a starting point for the drafting of a law on the Council of Justice, where we want to include in the first step both the representatives of the Council of Justice and the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice. True, this situation will not soon change. My personal opinion is that it is necessary to strengthen the Council of Justice, to withdraw the policy as far as possible from it, and that the judiciary must act even more transparently in this monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u111	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Even so that you have more time, let me give you some examples, and these cases, of course, are not obvious to you, because this is a matter of justice, but an incentive to step up. The appointment of Mrs Dolinska, you know what was going on, 82 Members refused. Look, that's where they called it an assault on a lawyer. That's where they called it an assault on justice. While the judiciary is absolutely forgetting Article 82 of the Constitution, which says that we Members are independent in our vote. It's like we're some kind of voting machine, that's how they act. Then, if we move forward, let's say, a case. Two days ago, or three days ago, the Attorney General, as you know, said, the inspection services, the inspection at my place found nothing wrong. Do you remember this case? They certainly do, don't they? At first he objected to the inspection, he said, "No, you won't look," so you had to cut that there was even an inspection. Then it is on its website and in the media, of course – WHAT it was and the media also – says, "No, but there was nothing wrong with me, Gorenak burned down with his application." See, then comes the minutes in which on 8 pages there are actually 16 irregularities listed. And the Attorney General – I'll just say he's lying. Even in court, let me make one case, because I'm running out of time. Your KPK decision, when you were still chief there, was ruled by the Supreme Court for 16 months. 16 months! Only then did it decide. Which, of course, very clearly protects someone else, protects Mr Fisher. In short, what I mean is that the system protects itself, that the system makes itself less capable if you want. And that's why you two or three minutes as long as you have to give up your view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u113	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I will not take full advantage of this, because, see, you have highlighted cases that I cannot comment on, because these cases were intended for the entire meeting of the Justice Committee and for the plenary where you have highlighted them and whether you have talked a lot about this. The system protects itself, every system protects itself, and sometimes it's the right thing to do. It depends on what kind of attacks he's protecting himself from. I've told you many times, you won't be satisfied with this answer, and the devil is to be between the floor and the forelock, because I don't believe that justice is okay. But I also believe that the system must be protected against certain attacks that go beyond the limit. And today we are in this system that in fact, people who feel that they are being attacked unjustly, either by individual prosecutors or by individual judges or by the system as a whole, are shutting themselves down and not even admitting those mistakes. And we talked about this in this room and also in the Justice Committee, when we changed the law that you told him was about cosmetic changes, where we also set out, we moved the provision essentially around that the judge should be personally fit to perform his function, which was in the past the proposal of the Council of Justice, of course the system felt attacked in the sense that such a article could be misused for some socio-political examination of judges who would condemn someone, whether it was such a policy or not. So, I would very much like to be able to sit together on this part of the judicial reforms. I don't know if that's possible as long as we're burdened with these cases that we're burdened with, and everyone's buried in their trench. But the fact is that certain changes will be necessary, but they will not be possible to change with the butcher and they will not be, as you say, more decisively in doing so. You have only tried this – I believe even well-intentioned – with the prosecution you presented, as I think, because it is not you, but well, you were then a minister, the government presented it as the Ministry of the Interior and you know that this has had much more negative consequences than positive. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u115	Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a general debate on the issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u116	Yes, thank you very much. Now, of course, 7 minutes to the minister or 5 minutes to me for such an extensive debate is not enough. For this reason, of course, I propose that the National Assembly decide on the proposal for a general discussion on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u117	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now I will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Restovalšk, who is rightly absent, the question of Suzanne Lepi Šimenka, asking you whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished ministerial team! The Minister of Economy is not ours today. Small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. companies with up to 249 employees, play an important role in fostering economic growth and creating new jobs. They are by far the largest, representing 99.8% of all companies in Slovenia. Of this, we have 94% of micro-enterprises, companies with up to 10 employees, 4.7% of small businesses and 0.9% of medium-sized enterprises. Overall, small and medium-sized enterprises generate 70% of their income and employ 72% of all employees. They are traditionally more focused on the domestic market. Only 12% are exporters and are also less innovative than large companies. In view of the data we have put down, we can see that they are an important driver of our economic development. Many of them are successful and have outstanding development potential within them. Many, especially micro-enterprises, struggle for daily bread due to high tax burdens and red tape. I want to know: How will you help small and medium-sized enterprises to stand firm and develop? How much funding will be earmarked for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2015? In short, as a government coalition, you also intend to introduce tax receipts, which we know are not a good solution, according to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Nor will they reduce the work in black, but to a greater extent they will represent an additional burden on the small economy in particular. You are also planning to introduce a real estate tax in the coalition contract. I am therefore interested in the opinion of the Minister for the Economy: How does it assess the impact of the introduction of tax and real estate taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises? Will small and medium-sized enterprises, in return for additional burdens, also have any tax and administrative burdens? I request a written answer from the Honourable Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you. And now the Minister of Justice is going to be a magician. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Information on the length of judicial proceedings, including judicial backlogs, is known and can be monitored through the SOSTAT web-based application. The results are not optimal, but at least they are publicly verifiable. However, I do not know that any analysis or at least data would be available indicating the length of the forecasting proceedings or judicial investigations. As far as I can tell, the length of these is also not legally limited. Cases of judicial backlogs and measures to limit them are known, but it seems that today, in particular in cases of economic crime or in relation to influential persons or policies, there is a particularly good practice of lagging behind at the time of detection or complaint and of the first activities of the detection and prosecution authorities, that is to say, the submission of a request for judicial investigation or the submission of an appropriate indictment or other termination of the case. In the political space, we have important actors who are known to the public because of serious suspicions that they are involved in criminal acts. These suspicions, however, are confirmed by the generally known fact that investigations have been initiated, as procedures often take place in the light of headlamps and in front of cameras. From the moment we read or watch the beginnings of house investigations, detentions, and so on, the year goes on, and many more years before the end of the criminal procedure, whether it is a conviction, an exoneration or a rejection judgment. In this way, there is a lack of confidence in politics in the public, as people rightly expect people in responsible places who are not involved in crimes. As the justice system does not work in time as it should, the impression is that politics is distorted by crime. Therefore, it would be in the eminent public interest to eliminate this social damage and to do everything possible to reduce the forecasting procedures substantially. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Does the Ministry of Justice have data on the length of forecasting procedures in dealing with crime, in particular economic crime, or does the State Prosecutor's Office have them? And secondly: Has or will any analysis of the causes of such a situation be carried out and will the Ministry exercise its powers and take appropriate action to reduce these procedures to a reasonable extent? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u121	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Member, Dr. Matić, Members and Members of Parliament! Your question is still in place. I'm afraid I don't have an answer for him. You have highlighted the issue, which I believe is also one of the key issues of the success of the Slovenian criminal justice system from the beginning to the end. So, from police action through the D.A.'s office and then the trial itself. As you yourself mentioned in the question, we currently have a relatively decent system of monitoring judicial backlogs, time management with individual procedures in Slovenia. These tools also include the presidents of individual courts, district, district, higher and higher courts. While we do not have common verifiable information, especially useful information on the duration of the procedures before this, in particular the procedures from the moment forward when an investigation is carried out in the sense of the house investigation, the seizure of liberty and so on. The only time limit in the marriage is in the case of detention cases. There are procedures that you have just mentioned and that, in my opinion, sometimes more than the conduct of the courts than is desirable in this House, lowers the reputation and faith in the legal state in the Republic of Slovenia when, after a house investigation or even in the case of detention, sometimes it is a matter of not having an epilogue at all in court, but of not knowing where the matter is for years and years after that. This is bad for the public interest and, of course, bad for respect for human rights, from the point of view of that suspect or accused person who is in such a process. A short answer to your question: No, there is no such analysis, it is not at the Ministry of Justice, it is not on the police and it is not on the State Prosecutor's Office, at least not an analysis that would allow targeted and targeted monitoring and response to these procedures. General statistics are, of course, only in general statistics somewhere and flags of delinquents and some small thefts of course improve statistics, according to local words. We have already begun to work at the Ministry of Justice, and we will take up two things. First of all, when the CAP changes, we will try to limit forecasting procedures in time by example from foreign countries. Not with a slip-through deadline. I'll tell you, there was a case like this at the time of the previous government. At the time, positive Slovenia tabled a proposal to amend one article in the CAP, which would say, in the domestic sense, if the case is not completed in the forecasting process within six months, it must not continue. That sounds great, but then we know that there would be just one bunch of things out of date, and it doesn't matter at the Ministry, but one particular name got this article, which, thank God, didn't even go into a further discussion. However, certain time limits are possible and are also known by other countries facing such a problem, and this will be the case with the changes in the CAP. The other thing is, within the framework of the administrative and organisational measures available to the Office of the State Prosecutor and the police, to achieve one monitoring, similar to that of the President's panels today in the courts, in order to inform the State Prosecutor's Office that the monitoring of such procedures would be more transparent, this would be one of the modules of our supervisor. The first step, however, I must say that the Ministry of Justice does not have absolute powers here, and it will need both the cooperation of the State Attorney's Office and the cooperation of the Ministry of the Interior, but an analysis, a review of these procedures. How long it takes, how many investigative activities have been arranged at all, because personally I cannot agree that always an excuse is just that, it is complex matters and therefore it must take three, four, sometimes even five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u123	Dr. Dragan Matić has the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u124	Dear Mr. Secretary! I am pleased that you are thinking in this direction that the system needs to be upgraded, but as you yourself have mentioned, this is a very sensitive area, because it is a matter of several competent institutions, which are also independent among themselves, and it is true that this is the case. However, it is in the eminent public interest to ensure, as you can see, some transparency here, that there will be no appearance of abuse in the system itself, that certain procedures are deliberately delayed. Once again, I would like to point out that there are very well-known public figures, who are also politically active, who are burdened by serious suspicions of crime, that individual investigations have taken place in front of cameras, and that then the media and the public all rightly wonder when a reasonable epilogue will occur within a reasonable period of time. For once again I would like to point out that politics would also be burdened. Since politics itself is burdened with certain individuals, as well as the economy or public life in general, and until we have a transparent system, as you yourself have mentioned, perhaps even in the essence of a register that will be publicly accessible, so that we can verify what is happening and where the issue is at a certain point in time where the ball is, if I may say so, it will, of course, remain this problem. However, it was in our pre-election programme that the rule of law was in fact the starting point of our action. I think it's also in the coalition contract, so I'm counting on you to keep us informed of progress in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u125	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. There's nothing more to say than agree with you and they're leverage for these two. One is a marriage, where it is a little easier at the end of the matter to regulate and prescribe some hands. But we know how to handle it. If they are lax in criminal proceedings, if they are specific, then there is a risk of a lapse. If you say so, one investigation can't last more than six months, because otherwise you can't investigate another person, it can be problematic. And abused. But they're in between, and we'll talk about it when we get there. However, I believe that in one piece, as far as the CAP is concerned, the Criminal Procedure Act has been in place since this year. The other is organisational and administrative and, in view of the support of information systems, and I can tell you that in the new financial perspective of e-Justice, we intend to pay much more attention this year in this perspective, and then in the coming years, together with the Attorney General's Office of the State, and to inform the Prosecutor's Office in this area, because there is a marked gap between the capacities of the Supreme Court and the capacities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which has only recently passed over to the electronic register. This information is not their fault, but it is the Ministry of Justice's fault, because it is responsible for their information infrastructure, but it is only today that they have at least a substitute for electronic data allowing them to monitor such data. Nothing but this, and I commit myself here, publicly, that we are aware of this problem painfully and that we will try to solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u127	Now he'll be a magician to the Minister of Justice. Ms Eva Irgle asked Goran Klemenčič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption states: "Integrity is expected to operate by individuals and organisations in preventing and eliminating risks in order to ensure that authority, function, authority or other decision-making powers are used in contravention of law, legally permissible objectives or ethical codes." Of course, we all know that integrity is not only linked or, in particular, to a current function performed by someone, but rather represents a way of dealing with a particular individual. Mr Minister, you are covering the area of justice, and the judiciary itself is a particularly sensitive system, as it must follow evidence and truth in its decisions, while respecting human rights in procedures. I have also pointed out several times at our meetings of the National Assembly that they are at the highest levels of the judiciary, here I am thinking of Mr Masleša and Mr Fischer, a person who does not follow the definition of integrity mentioned above. For both of them violated human rights, both in the previous system and in the current system, Mr Maslesha in various judicial systems even more than 14 times. They often act politically instead of independently. Even after your Commission's findings to prevent corruption, Mr Fischer acted unlawfully and perhaps even corruptly in the event of Mr Škrlec's employment. I will not comment on these final decisions in this regard. Since I know that you will not do anything about them as Minister, because we have invited representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party to do so many times, I ask you the following questions: How do you intend to protect the integrity of the judiciary as a minister of justice because of compromised and disputed persons in such high positions, especially because there are a large number of people in the judicial system who do their work properly and qualitatively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u129	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Now I have found out what your question will be, because your announcement has been so general: I will ask the Minister of Justice about the integrity and respect of legislation. That was the forecast of the question. Look, I can't answer your question because the question is based on a submenu that I disagree with and that I don't think is appropriate to answer. You say, the President of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the violator of human rights, often act politically and so on. I do not share this opinion with you, and I do not believe that the questions to the Minister or to the Government are not intended to clear up the issue that you know we are cleaning up all of them once a month on committees, as well as in plenary. I also can't agree that in both cases, it's a compromised person, as you said. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yes, because of the above-mentioned things, which, you know, are a matter of political view, or that they often act politically and so on. My concern is within the purview of the powers I have as Minister of Justice. When we talk about integrity and ethical behaviour, a month ago we prepared a change, a set of legislative changes, which were a small step for you, a cosmetic step in this direction, you said, in this direction and aimed exactly at strengthening integrity and ethics within the functioning of the justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u131	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to ask for a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Such an answer, which is not an answer at all, I also expected from you, Sir Secretary-General. Probably also because you have an extremely large problem with the definition of integrity. Look at why I'm saying this. Last year, the Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion on the Commission's action to prevent corruption when you led it and your two deputies. At that time, the Court of Auditors found that as many as eight laws and several regulations were violated, including the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is in fact a basic law, there is some reason for the functioning of your then commission, which you led. Recently, the Supreme Court, too late, as we have repeatedly pointed out, because it was deliberately delayed, your report on the property situation of John Janša found that you had violated the Constitution because you had unlawfully intervened in the Constitution of a certain human right. But for this act, you were rewarded with the role of Minister of Justice. Because of your report, we all know, and we don't need blindness here, the government of Janez Janša has fallen. But you are, Mr. Secretary, because you are exactly the Minister of Justice, the first to respect legislation and set an example for all of us. Mr Erjavec, Minister for Environment and Space, resigned from the Court of Auditors' findings. You may recall this, but these violations were significantly smaller than those reported to you or to the anti-corruption Commission. That's why I'm asking you: Do you believe that you still have the necessary integrity to serve as Minister of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u133	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Again and again, this report of the Court of Auditors is coming back, and again and again this has been explained, but once again. In order to prevent corruption in the Senate I led, the Commission itself ordered an external audit six months after the appointment, which revealed a number of irregularities in the functioning of the Commission. On this basis, certain measures have also been followed, including the filing of criminal complaints and the elimination of these irregularities. However, I would like to say because, say, I do not know the report of the Court of Auditors concerning Minister Erjavac, but I do know the report on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. And in those 18 or 8 laws that are supposed to be broken, let's say, two laws are broken because we published a job where we wrote that we're looking for computer science with university education. The Court of Auditors found that we should write that we are looking for information technology with a university education in social or technical terms. The contract for electricity was controversial. It was closed in 2008 and we were paying bills for this electricity and that's why the breach fell on us. The lease was contested, which was concluded in 2008. At this time, we reduced it from EUR 25 per square metre to EUR 10 per square metre, but we could not stop it, but it was a violation. However, in the Court of Auditors’ opinion itself – and therefore it was also a negative opinion because it was large amounts, which were mainly related to rent. But, okay, from this point of view, I think I'm maintaining all integrity. And also, by the way, in the Court of Auditors' opinion, there was not a single corrective measure envisaged, because before the audit was completed and, above all, before the audit, most of the problems had been resolved. However, I would like to point out that the two governments, yours and the former, have received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors on the establishment and operation of the DUTB, EUR 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u135	Ms Eva Irgle has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the question of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, I think that the debate on the Minister's response needs to be held, because, in particular, I have not received a complete answer to the first question. Today we have discussed the integrity and violation of legislation and why it is essential that officials have integrity in their positions, because then some things can be accomplished to the end. Mr Klemenčič, as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, you also did not report, say, your wife's businesses and you did not know why the house you are staying in was not entered into the GURS record. I can tell you why it's important that we discuss this. Nor did you want to explain that you received loans cheaper than they were then available on the market. You asked President Janez Janš, for example, for every account, including electricity, 10 years ago, but you yourself did not wish to submit to the Commission the bills relating to the renovation of your house. I was personally a member, and I'm still a mandate-holder commission investigating your assets, and unfortunately we haven't come to an end. It is certainly a questionable issue of integrity for the Minister, especially if he is in charge of justice. Because now we have seen that there is no respect for legislation, even a violation of the Constitution, and at the same time it does not want to act transparently when this minister is asked about his own property. Of course, this transparency in the role of the President of the Commission to prevent corruption at that time requires others. Even since it is obvious that, at least this is how I understand from this first of your answers, the integrity of the people in the highest positions of justice means nothing, it is said, in those top two functions, that I propose that we hold a broader debate on these answers from the Minister, who were extremely flawed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u137	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes I next ask Matjaž Hanžek and this Minister for the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we have been monitoring water in Slovenia since 1986 at a very high and quality level. Monitoring of water conditions in Slovenia serves to assess the chemical and ecological state of surface waters, the quantitative and chemical state of groundwaters and water conditions in areas with special requirements. In Slovenia, the water monitoring area is governed by the Regulations on monitoring of surface waters and the Regulations on monitoring of groundwaters, and the criteria and methods for assessing water status are laid down by the Regulations on the Status of Surface Waters and the Regulations on the Status of Groundwaters. Monitoring of water quality in specific areas with specific requirements is also provided for by certain additional rules. The basic principles of water monitoring and assessment are laid down in Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23. Ten. 2000 laying down a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, water directive and certain other water directives. The Water Directive lays down uniform principles for the adoption of water assessment for all Member States of the European Union. Members of the European Union are thus obliged to report to the European Commission on the water condition. Before this year's budget rebalancing, €862 000 890 was allocated to the monitoring and only €287 000 and a few more after this year's rebalancing. Because of the above, I ask you: Will monitoring of all surface and underground waters, as required by legal provisions, be even possible with the envisaged funds this year? Maybe there's somewhere else that means something. How will you justify to the European Commission the fact that Slovenia will not fully carry out monitoring if, of course, these funds are not sufficient? How will you justify the cost of European Commission penalties to taxpayers and taxpayers if this alone finds that we have not complied with the directives? And this: Do you think about when you will decide to introduce the Environment Keeper? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u139	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Matjaž Hanžek, thank you for the questions raised. I'd like to give you the next answer. With the funds currently provided, as you yourself have already stated, there will be monitoring of chemical parameters in rivers on border profiles with neighbouring countries, monitoring of biological quality elements on those aquatic bodies whose assessment is between good and moderate, monitoring of bathing water quality, chemical analysis and analysis of phytoplankton in Lake Blejska and Bohinj. Currently, part of the monitoring of the ecological and chemical state of rivers and reservoirs is excluded from the programme. The chemical and ecological state of the sea, the chemical state of groundwater and the analysis of hazardous substances in living organisms and sentimentality are also excluded. Together with the representatives of the ARSO, we are also working to find the means that will enable us to carry out the remaining monitoring we are obliged to carry out in the future. I would like to say that reporting on monitoring is annual for bathing water. However, for both the nitrate directive and the water directive, these periods are longer. For the Nitrate Directive, reports should be submitted every three years and for the Water Directive every six years. We have also intensified the preparation of the water management plan, we call it 2 because the first plan has already been confirmed, and it is in this part that I see a lot of attention to be given to this work, especially because the European Union is following us with a pilot when drawing up the water management plan. So I can say that I guarantee that we will carry out the monitoring in full, but we need to ensure or transfer these funds from other items so that this year the monitoring will be carried out in the expected amount and taxpayers will not have to justify the cost of the penalty following the monitoring. I am also sure that the professional services will now be recast by the Water Management Plan Preparatory Group, which they will complete by the end of this year. In order to introduce, if possible, the introduction of the Ombudsman, I say that the Ombudsman is also responsible for the protection of the right to a healthy living environment in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Environmental Protection Act, in addition to the Ministry of the Environment and Space, and I am confident that, if necessary, they will ensure that this Ombudsman is established when they assess that this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u141	Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You still haven't completely convinced me. I believe you will try to find funds in other items. It's not just your fault that it's too small, I know the finance department is putting pressure on all ministries to cut funds. However, I am convinced that water in the world and especially in Slovenia is an extremely important thing. For water, clean water, healthy water is the oil of the future. In some countries this is already known, and almost wars are preparing for water because water is what will save us in the future. That is why it seems to me that much, much more attention needs to be paid to this, even because of ourselves, not only because of the European directives. Because if we just look at what European directives and regulations require us to do, of course we are acting very irresponsible to our own waters. For the time being, I believe in your wishes to try, but it's not just your jurisdiction. However, I want you to succeed in the government and in contrast to others who want to reduce funds. That's why I'm more specifically interested in: Do you know at least about where we could get these missing, about half a million euros? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u143	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you. I fully agree with you in the part where we say that water is our good, our greatest wealth. In terms of wateriness, Slovenia is, of course, a country that transcends many countries after this wealth, i.e. drinking water. Then we have many watercourses, many lakes, groundwater, the sea, to this extent, that is, in a small space such as Slovenia, so many waters, this wealth is reflected also in the costs needed to monitor and I admit that our task is, of course, to provide these necessary resources, if this could be done, I would say, so simply, in fact, we would not need to discuss this today. So I'm making sure we do our best and get things out of here as expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u145	Matjaž Hanžek has the floor for a procedural proposal to discuss the question of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I am partly satisfied with the answer, Madam Minister, but I still think that this is, and of course, also within the United Left Group, that this is such an important thing that further debate in the National Assembly is needed. Slovenia has a small amount of oil it uses, but it has a lot of water, which, as I said before and we both agree with the Minister, is the oil of the future. And so we must also keep thinking, not only that this moment, we are talking specifically about monitoring, but we must even think about water, protecting water in Slovenia as well as health and everything else. I would therefore suggest that we discuss this further in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u147	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now he has the word Urska Ban to ask questions to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Public Administration, Mr. Boris Koprivnik. In the SMC Group, we welcome the preparation of a strategy for the development of public administration 2015-2020, as no comprehensive strategic document has been adopted in Slovenia since 2005 as the basis for its renovation and modernisation. We can conclude that it is precisely because of the lack of vision so far in this area that the public administration in Slovenia is, by efficiency, below the European average. The European Commission considers that an inefficient public administration is one of the main obstacles to business competitiveness and economic development in many Member States and has therefore placed public administration reform among the five most important tasks. In 2012, the OECD also issued a review of the functioning of the Slovenian public administration, which notes, inter alia, that Slovenia's exit strategy does not contain strategies and measures to help the public administration become more effective and consequently stable in the long term. It is therefore crucial to renovate and modernise the public administration in Slovenia, so I welcome the efforts of the MJU to finalise the strategy and follow-up measures resulting from it. I am interested, however, in the Minister of State, in particular, in the renovation of information technology, which you discussed at one of the last meetings of the Government. We know that the Republic of Slovenia spends EUR 75 million annually on state information, which is extremely large. I'm asking you: How will the reform of state information technology be carried out, at which levels and in particular how much savings are envisaged for our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u149	The Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u150	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member Banova, as you yourself have found, is a strategy for the development of public administration one document that we really need, but not just a document, but we really need clear decisions in which direction, with what tools we will actually improve the efficiency of public administration. Informatics is a key tool in this area, because it is with information technology that we allow the public administration to operate, to monitor all its activities and also to direct all flows of information that are the essence of our work. The preparation of the strategy for the development of information technology began already in the essence in 2013, when a discussion on solutions, a plan for reconstruction and a so-called quantum jump project and the construction of a state computer cloud was prepared. An important step forward has been made by the coalition contract of this government with the Government Act and the State Administration Act, which have set it up as a special, otherwise organised area, so we have fully revised this document and have also proposed to the Government in the past weeks to review the decision on the appointment of the Strategic Council for the Development of Information Technology Group and the two subgroups, namely, the guidance and technical framework that guides these entire projects, including the timeline by the end of 2017 by which we will re-consolidate the information technology of the Council of State, build a computer cloud in three versions, if you want, one state computer cloud that is already being set up in 2015, now that we are speaking, the second computer cloud for public administration, which will probably be built in a public-private partnership and will be accessible to the whole public sector, and the third is a so-called development cloud, which is expected to be set up in cooperation with some kind of public administration, which is likely to be an open-innovation and will also be accessible to innovation. Of course, the key processes of this process include four key areas. It's one thing to regulate data management. In this country, we have great problems with data editing and transparency – what are the keys, how are the keys, who is the data carrier, who has the base – and therefore there is a lack of consistency, urgency and duplication. The second important component is the consolidation of infrastructure. Here we speak everything from the server capacity to the security line and the entire infrastructure structure, at the end of the table equipment that we use in the state administration. The third important component is the consolidation of application solutions. At present, we are in a very unacceptable situation to use for the same purposes very different applications which are incompatible with each other, or even to use the same application or application of the same manufacturer, which is repeatedly charged and adjusted and therefore we also want to regulate first the consolidation of this application level. The fourth important package, in my view, is quite neglected and extremely important – the single security policy of the entire information system. To ensure that the exact vein, what are the competences of views, access, data creation, and also to ensure the traceability of data insights. These are key components, which, in implementing the area of central information technology itself, are strictly separated from each other in order to avoid duplication with operators who at the same time carry out tasks of more than one of these four sets, coming into a situation from which we are now gradually winding up to be crucially dependent on individual suppliers. By doing so, we can solve this problem of dependence on suppliers. Of course, we are dealing with key stakeholders in the information process itself, namely: ministries, bodies, public servants, and, on the other hand, information companies, infrastructure providers, networks and all the other resources we need to establish this. It is also important that we have also clearly identified risk factors in this single financial plan for the consolidation of staff, the consolidation of infrastructure and the centralisation of procurement functions. According to the project, savings are estimated at EUR 20 million in the first three years; this year the budget has already decreased by EUR 9 million. Exactly how we're going to achieve these savings, we're going to see it through the years to come. However, it is also important that the structure of the use of maintenance resources is much greater to move into development. And that's an essential achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u151	And now Dr. Dusan Marble's Minister of Finance is going to ask the Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance, the Slovenian public has in some ways shaken and waved the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. We paid taxpayers around €5 billion to the Slovenian banks at this second rehabilitation, and some of us had to pay twice for this rehabilitation. Some even three times. By way of additional costs, through the write-off of shares, over 100o thousand Slovenians and Slovenians had to pay their savings to the NKBM and some additionally when purchasing subordinated bonds from state banks. Slovenia currently has a Venezuelan banking market. Nearly 70% of banks are state and Slovenian governments have committed themselves to privatising the banking system in the next two or more years. In view of the fact that we have discussed the subordinate financial instruments and the entry of subordinates here in the National Assembly in considerable detail, an extraordinary meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, the Committee on Finance, was convened, but we have not received any more concrete answers in this respect. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance here, given that the President of the Association of Banks, Dr. Arhar, and his predecessor, Mr. Cuffer, have made a public statement to seek some legal basis for the payment or partial payment of those who have lost their savings in deleting subordinated financial instruments: Does the government in this area draw up a law, a legal solution? Does he agree with such an action? What is the total value of the deposit of the natural persons who, after appealing bank officials to state banks for their savings, instead of depositing them in a savings account, committed in, say, the 26th issue of subordinate bonds of the New Ljubljana Bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u153	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u154	Dear Member, mag. Anže Logar, the rehabilitation, as you yourself said, was carried out in the Republic of Slovenia in a way that ensured its compliance with the European Union rules governing State aid. That the measures implemented by the Republic of Slovenia have been appropriate and necessary, representatives of the European Commission have recently been publicly endorsed. The European Union rules on State aid require that, when the capital deficit is lower than its debts, the burden of the bank's resolution is also borne by the holders of subordinated financial instruments. That requirement of the European Union reflects the fact that in this case their subordinate financial instruments are less valuable or worthless. This means that those who enter the bank would immediately lose part of their deposit, as money would be spent to increase the value of financial instruments that could have been worthless at the time of its entry. As no private investor would do so, the European Union does not consider it appropriate to allow this to happen to the State. If the State had done so subsequently, as would have happened in the case of Slovenia, it would still constitute a violation of the European Union State aid rules. With regard to the subsequent partial payment of certain holders of subordinated financial instruments, I explain that in some cases this has indeed occurred — the response to these proposals by the President of the Association of Banks and the former Minister of Finance. However, the legal basis on which such payment was made is important. For example, in the case of the Dutch bank SNS Real, payment was not made because the deletion would be illegal, but because the bank sold subordinate instruments without explaining the risk to the buyers. Therefore, the payment was not done by the State, but by the Bank itself, and by its own resources. Since Slovenian law already allows such a request today, no specific changes are envisaged in this respect. With regard to the question of the value of subordinated financial instruments sold in bank windows and then deleted, I stress that it is important to establish the responsibility of the bank whether consumers have been misled in the purchase and not how they bought the financial instrument. Otherwise, we explain that the total value of the NLB 26 subordinated bonds issued was 61 million euros in the context of the issue, and we do not have the data on how much of the issue is to be sold to so-called uneducated investors, these are the smaller investors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u155	Mag. Ange Logar has the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I have not received an answer. You have mentioned or stated that the deletion of subordinates should be carried out in accordance with the rules that the measures were appropriate and proper and that the representatives of the European Commission should confirm this to you. Okay, but the representative of the Slovenian profession Dr. Arhar, representative of Slovenian politics Mr. Chufer, your predecessor, however, feel slightly different. And allow me to quote what they said on committee 13. 2nd in this high choir. Mr. Arhar said, "I also know how the procedure went. So if we take the example of what happened somewhere, I suggest we find a solution before the courts for these investors. For these investors have lost confidence." And Mr Cuffer, "...but I am actually close to this initiative to seek some compromise proposal." So, even Mr. Chufer, who has carried out the recommendations of these experts in the European Commission, is of the opinion that we should find a legal basis in order to justify or resolve this problem, which is now before the Constitutional Court. However, that is a serious problem, we are also convinced by the last conversation with the fund that buys NKBM, where, as you know, they want a special agreement on the payment of these subordinates in the case of the Constitutional Court judgment. This testifies to the fact that if a foreign investor places such conditions, I think the Minister of Finance must find a solution to this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u157	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u158	Of course, at that time I was not part of this government team that conducted the procedures and I, when I became a finance minister, tried to get an insight into how they were running; whether these procedures were in line with EU rules or not and whether the European Commission had essentially competence for such commitments as they were given. In all of these verifications, the result was that it was in accordance with the rules and that the European Commission did not make a mistake in this case, and also on our part it was appropriate to comply with these requirements of DG COMP. As you yourself have said, this is now before the Constitutional Court. As you have seen, not only did the Constitutional Court want to take a decision without Europe's opinion but it has asked for the opinion of the European Court of Justice and is now before the Constitutional Court to decide. Until then, I believe that, however, this conclusion I have reached, in essence, is that the findings of a team at the Ministry of Finance that this is in line with the rules are appropriate. Then what will be the decision of the Constitutional Court, and we will see.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u159	Mag. Anže Logar has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the question of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. See, in the first part of the reply, the Minister of Finance cited the case of the Netherlands and described that the bank did not explain the risks to investors and was therefore forced to pay these obligations. In the case of the 26th issue of subordinated securities or bond securities, the same is true. From this we can conclude that we will have the same problem in Slovenia. Mr Maramor stated that the State is not obliged to pay for the damage caused by this. But in Slovenia we have an interesting problem, as I said, almost 70% of the banking market is state-owned. These banks concerned in this case are state-owned. So we're going to have to pay for this question. I mentioned earlier the statements made by Dr. Arhar, Mr. Chufar. Both said that because of this act, especially Mr Arhar, investors lost confidence. He's said those words twice. I remind the Government of the third paragraph of the first page of their coalition treaty, which says, "The main mission of this government is therefore to restore the confidence of the people and the state." See, in the case of the banking system, Slovenian taxpayers, essentially citizens and citizens, have lost confidence in the country. Some, I repeat, even three times and with some handball response, when European officials, European Commission officials said it was okay, the previous government did it, we have nothing with the previous government, and see, the Netherlands has done it, and we have nothing with it; but with such a burning question it will not work. I therefore propose that the National Assembly hold a more detailed debate on this subject and that the Ministry of Finance prepare a horizontal answer, or horizontal answer, to this complex question and provide all relevant information that might give the Slovenian public more insight into this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u161	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, will now ask Mr Jernej Vrtovec a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u162	Madam Minister, honourable President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! Our health system has many anomalies and one of the major anomalies is certainly long waiting species, which have grown enormously in the last year. Some facts, which were also written in one of the Slovenian daily newspapers. At the beginning of February, 105 thousand patients were waiting for outpatient examinations and interventions. An additional 87,000 patients are waiting for surgery and some other, of course important, interventions. Long waiting lines result in costs on the part of employers due to both the patient and, last but not least, which is of the utmost importance, the quality of human treatment is deteriorating. By 189%, waiting lines have also increased beyond the allowable period for those with a quick travel guide for operations and some other services. Madam Minister, you yourself admit that the system we have now does not work. You have recently said or expressed your belief that waiting types are also abused by hospitals. At the same time, you pointed out that the problem is not only a lack of money, as waiting types are often misused just to make health care institutions receive more money. Mr Fakin recently said that by the end of the year there should be no more waiting time for examinations by specialists, but at the same time, Madam Minister, the Minister, said that if this is not the case, the Government will be to blame. Well, Mr. Fakin has already turned the blame on you in advance. For the end, there is still a very specific question. People who are taxpayers are rightly expected to be treated quickly and qualitatively in this hall, which pays a considerable sum of money to the health care department. We are not interested in analysis, strategies, but in concrete measures, so a clear and concise question: What will you do to reduce waiting lines? What will be the measures to put an end to these long waiting lines as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u163	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members! I am very grateful for this question — and why? It is because too many uses are used in the public or, if you want, it is also partly misused that waiting periods and excessive waiting periods are solely due to lack of funding. I can assure you what the inspection also showed by the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia in some hospitals when they examined these waiting lists so that this is not the case. It may be in one part — where these waiting lists are properly created, watered and distributed — in fact, some lack of money. However, there are many such waiting types that do not actually deserve to be waiting species because they are not properly created, watered, analyzed and no patient distribution. As I have already said, this is why I will say something about concrete measures, because unfortunately the experience of the past has not taught us about it. That is why I have called on hospital directors these days, this is either the first phase or the first measure to first review their waiting lists on their own, inside the house, or through internal audit or through other controls. We know what I've already mentioned from these inspections that there are a lot of the same people that even appear in two or three waiting lines. At the same time, we have proposed or are also preparing amendments to the waiting rows rules, where the problem is in particular the definition of "fast" and "necessary" passengers, so that these waiting lists can indeed be regulated in a comprehensive and centralised manner. Of course, when we introduce e-procurement and e-reception, it will be by the end of the year, in all of Slovenia, then we will really be able to have a centralised, computer-guided waiting list of waiting types, where we will not be able to manually intervene and repair even back. Let me mention that waiting species are unlikely to be completely avoided, but the point is that they do not exceed a certain period of time and are those who need an urgent or very rapid examination of specialists in a very short time. In fact, we note that unfortunately this system is not regulated and does not work as it is intended, so after obtaining reports of these internal audits in hospitals, we will also require a review of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, as they also have their powers through their supervisory doctors, where this control could be done much better and more, especially when a general agreement is concluded before a programme contract with a particular contractor is concluded – now in the case of 2015. Therefore, the second step, or this second measure, will also require the Health Insurance Authority to determine, before concluding a contract with an individual operator, what is the necessary programme that an individual operator can implement and enter into a contract in this context. For this reason, family doctors will also have to be called back on that it is impossible and unnecessary to extend the hospital stock because of the reason for waiting for the operation, because then it will always be necessary to remind again all those where someone is unreasonably waiting for some emergency intervention and to tell him that the proposal is being extended by the hospital stock. This will be a whole series of measures, including this Regulation, because unfortunately there is also no sanctioning instrument for violating these waiting periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u165	Mr. Jernej Vratvec has a word, asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u166	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I believe you personally. But I think that in the case of waiting species, it is such an anomaly that it is a cancer of our sick health system and that we will also be able to reduce these waiting species or eradicate them only by making a system law that we will witness some comprehensive health reform. If we're just gonna call either the ZZS or our doctors, I'm not sure we're gonna get to the end of these waiting lines. But I have another complementary question, of course, also concerning waiting species. In fact, even waiting types and other accumulated health problems are not least due to the failure of the Government's multiple conclusions that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance prepares standards and standards of services. Since these conclusions have not yet been realized, the doctors have taken the lead. I want to know: Have you examined the Blue Book of Standards and Standards of Doctors and Dentists that they have prepared? In what way will you advocate for their realization, since otherwise, in April, you are threatened with a pre-announced sentence? What do you think is the main obstacle that the CFSP has not yet complied with the Government's conclusions to develop standards and standards of services and other compulsory health insurance rights, which are the basis for determining the prices of health services, which would provide a more adequate funding system at the time of tight employment conditions? You know that the government, both the first government of Janez Janša and Pahor's government, has decided to urge the ZZ to make standards and regulations. But, ZZZS, led by Mr. Fakin, he hasn't done that until today. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u167	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you, too, for that question. It is true, what you have said in the end, that the government has already ordered the Institute of Health Insurance to prepare these standards twice in the previous mandates. After this application, given the time period, it is difficult to assess why these standards and norms were not prepared, but let me tell you that we know these standards, the standards that have been drawn up by the coordination of health organisations in the form of the Blue Book. We have also met with representatives of these organisations, a mixed working group has been established with representatives of both these organisations and the Medical Chamber and our Ministry. On the basis of these prepared baselines for these standards, they will somehow be prepared by summer together – as you know, for health care as well, they are intensively prepared within the Strategic Council of Health and Nana Care recommendations or the starting point for the standards of this care, because a recommendation for the so-called "what" will also be the basis for 10- and 15-year human resources planning for the needs of health workers, together with the Health Care Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. This is how the work at both starting points is done, but let me mention, nevertheless, that very few countries in Europe are either at national level or even legally adopted standards. This is more in the direction of recommendations as to how many doctors or who are on one team for a specific health programme. And I can assure you this because these working groups have hands and a way of working to make it ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u169	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the question of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u170	Dear President, Madam Secretary! Of course, I propose that we discuss the issue at a regular meeting or an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, because this debate is very important, and in particular it is productive. Because the health system in the Republic of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, is, at first glance, a very complicated system that knows, I have already said, full of anomalies; on the other hand, it touches us very much when we get sick ourselves when we are patients. That's when we see how these anomalies are. For the benefit of all taxpayers, all patients who do not last pay in this health - care, large sums of money — we do not put so little money into the health system — and it is right to discuss this thoroughly, and it is right that we somehow agree on certain things in a social way. For this reason, I propose that we also discuss the waiting lines, as well as the standards and norms already imposed by the government twice, thoroughly in the National Assembly. For this reason, I propose a discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u171	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Dr Dusan Maramor will be asked by Mr Marijan Pojbič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Secretary! The introduction of tax registers once again excites entrepreneurs and craftsmen who, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, claim that such a solution will not affect the grey economy. If this is to be achieved, tax rates should be reduced, barriers to tax administration removed, tax morality raised and tax incentives introduced. It is a fact that adequate data should first be obtained on the effects of the introduction of tax warehouses in the countries which take them as examples in this case. It is also true that the introduction of the tax registers is not significantly affected by the reduction of the grey economy, even in the view of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which shows a 10-year average of the volume of the grey economy in the European Union countries by the introduction of tax repositories, where they range from 25 % to 40 % of the gross social product. It is particularly important to emphasise that, for example, in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, where they do not have tax registers, the level of the grey economy is among the lowest in Europe. I am therefore convinced that a sufficiently effective measure against the grey economy was already introduced by the introduction of virtual cash registers in 2013. It is clear from these facts that the introduction of tax warehouses is not necessary and will needlessly impose additional financial burden on entrepreneurs and craftsmen, in addition to the already overly high levies they must pay for the award, i.e. for the functioning of the public and public sector. I am absolutely sure that instead of tax receipts, we should complete a system that works well in neighbouring Austria and is also verified – i.e. I am talking about flat-rate taxation – which brings more money to the state treasury, while at the same time allowing more employment and smaller administrative burdens for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Obviously, we are doing exactly the opposite in our country; instead of making the country cheap, we are additionally burdening the economy with new and new measures and thus strengthening the power of the state and its officials. That's why I'm asking: Have you also gone through different solutions at the Ministry, such as flat-rate taxation? Have you made a decision to set up the tax registers on the basis of the data collected by those countries that have the tax registers in place? I'm asking: If you introduce tax receipts, who will bear the costs incurred by introducing them? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u173	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u174	Member of the Commission, in accordance with the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for this term of office, the introduction of tax registers is one of the coalition's priority projects. As part of the objective of bridging the grey economy, it is therefore envisaged to introduce tax warehouses for all operators engaged in an economic activity, thereby achieving an expansion of the tax base due to the capture of the overall turnover of each entity. The Ministry of Finance is aware that the introduction of tax warehouses is only one of the measures that will contribute to the pursuit of the objective of bridging the grey economy, and that this objective cannot be achieved only by the introduction of tax warehouses. To this end, it shall be paralleled with the preparation of legal bases for the introduction of tax repositories or the introduction of a system for the transmission of invoices to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to registering them before their issuance. Additional activities are also being prepared or are already under way, which constitute a comprehensive set of measures aimed at bridging the grey economy and, in parallel with the drafting of the bill, the Ministry of Finance will also prepare additional measures and incentives for the debtors with a view to promoting the issuance of accounts. While FURS is already in the process of tightening its controls for risk management in cash operations, as mentioned above, and enhanced surveillance in the field of job prevention and black employment. Likewise, activities are being carried out to raise the awareness of the debtors and to raise the general culture of voluntary compliance with tax obligations and, as a result, to increase the fair distribution of tax burdens among all taxpayers. For example, young people's awareness and payment activities are carried out in this regard. The experience of the countries that have already introduced the tax registers has also been taken into account when deciding on the introduction of the tax registers. The tax office has already introduced types of EU Member States, such as Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Croatia, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Portugal and Romania. In addition, Austria and the Czech Republic announced the introduction of tax registers. In the past periods, a so-called flat-rate taxation was introduced in the context of the search for measures in the field of the management of the grey economy in 2012, when the system of standardised expenditure in the field of taxation is being upgraded or introduced for legal persons. The imposition of tax cans and the imposition of flat-rate taxation in a given situation is not appropriate to treat them as alternative measures, as they focus on the different phenomena of the grey economy. In particular, flat-rate taxation is aimed at administrative simplification and increasing legal certainty, thereby reducing the volume of work and employment in black, while the tax measure focuses primarily on inadequate reporting or recording of business events and thus on the appropriate presentation of income and expenditure or turnover. In accordance with the tax rules – this as regards the reduction of the tax base or the cost of the introduction of tax rebates – these costs of purchasing tax rebates, the rules of access to the Internet and thus continue to be recognised as tax-recognised expenditure which reduces the tax base. In the case of the purchase of computer equipment, the taxable person may apply an depreciation rate of 50 % in the year of purchase and, in addition, the taxpayers may impose a tax relief for the investment of the tax box in accordance with the legislation already in force. In accordance with Article 55 of the Law on corporate income tax, the taxable person may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40 % of the invested amount in the equipment and in intangible assets, but not more than the amount of the tax base. Pursuant to Article 66 of the Income Act, the taxable person may impose a reduction in the tax base of 40 % of the invested amount in the equipment and in the intangible long-term assets in the fiscal year of the investment. In addition, we are further considering the possibility of a certain financial burden on the purchase of a tax box for taxpayers in the form of a reduction in the tax liability in the year of the imposition of the Treasury in a fixed amount. All these measures should facilitate this transition.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u175	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for this answer, but I must say that I am not pleased with him at all, despite the fact that you have said very well what I expected in some way, but not what I wanted. I think entrepreneurs and craftsmen, now that they've heard your answer, can't possibly be satisfied. I also come from one reason, if you remember or very well remember that the recently signed Social Agreement between the Government and the social partners for the period 2015-2016, which contains the government's commitment not to burden the economy further. The introduction of the tax registers goes in the opposite direction and is a breach of the agreement, as the cashiers will additionally burden the economy. Mr Minister, I simply do not understand how the Government can sign a document a month ago, and then, in a further step, change its opinion within a few minutes and do what will be done with the introduction of these tax registers. This means an additional burden on the economy. I mean, if you've signed an agreement, you should stick to this agreement too, otherwise you're becoming uncreditable. In fact, I've been feeling more and more lately that this government is talking one way and doing another, and that's what's bothering me. All agreements, all documents signed by this Government shall not be implemented and shall not be adhered to. The government doesn't stick to what it signs. I think that's extremely irresponsible. Therefore, Minister, in your reply, I expect you to say, among other things, that if the Government has already decided to introduce the tax box, it will also bear the costs. Not only are certain reliefs possible, and so on — what I listened to — but they should also bear the costs if they have already decided to do so [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u177	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much for this additional question. I will make it very clear that, within the framework of the social agreements, there were two laws in the tax area, namely the introduction of tax registers and the Real Estate Act, which have been dealt with all the time and have been on the table. With regard to these two amendments, the view was also expressed that these two amendments were still acceptable, in the case of a property tax, in the sense that those who were paying now the compensation for the use of the building land and the remaining property taxes to be paid equally, and in the case of the tax warehouses, would be introduced in such a way as to minimise the burden on those who were liable to have these bills. From this point of view, all of these burdens, which I have mentioned and which have already been in force and which have, of course, been in force in the introduction of these, I would say, virtual tax warehouses and, in addition, what we are studying now, are in our opinion in accordance with the social agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbič, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u180	Dear Mr. Secretary! See, the Chamber of Commerce wrote to the craftsmen: "At the introduction of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Slovenia expects that the costs for the purchase of the register will not be borne by economic operators. The cost shall be borne by the State, including the cost of mechanical equipment, or the cost of renting them to the debtors free of charge." Traders and entrepreneurs had to cover their own purchase costs in 2013 to prevent the deletion of accounts. As a result, they have the costs of maintenance contracts and the new tax bills would entail additional costs for internet connection, which is an additional burden on the economy. At the same time, this craftsman was very clearly written, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where the key problems are if we want to curb this grey economy. and that these are not in any way in the introduction of tax registers, but they wrote: "The main reasons for tax evasion: excessive tax rates, overly complex tax administration, excessive contributions to employees, costly operating conditions, standards, certificates, permits, no rewards for tax correct taxpayers, no lack of a good-looking state." Proposals by the Chamber of Commerce to reduce tax evasion: the introduction of an incentive tax relief in principle is considered by each account to reduce tax rates, to remove obstacles to tax administration, to reduce employees' contributions, to reduce transparency in budgetary management. Dear Minister, how long will it take our institutions to identify and listen to those segments in this society, which clearly indicate where the key problems are, to achieve the goal we want to achieve together, and also to improve the situation in this country, to greater prosperity and so on? But with additional burdens and with the approach used by the current government, we will not have these effects. I don't understand all this stuff that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry writes as if it doesn't exist. Like it doesn't exist. I expect that one day this government will start not only listening, but also hearing what they are saying and then we can expect the solutions to go in the right direction. But if we do not hear those who create in this country to survive this state and public administration, then we are going this way, as all the left governments in our dear country of Slovenia have done. I therefore propose that a broader debate be held on this issue in the National Assembly, of course in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 31 March, i.e. tomorrow, under the vote. Ms Marinka Levičar will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings for both ministers and all your colleagues! Madam Minister, instead of improving the health situation, the situation in health is deteriorating in many areas. After a good half year of your ministry management, we're disappointed because we haven't even noticed what systemic measures you're preparing in health care or when they'll be ready. Time is neither your nor our ally. The regulation of the health situation is essential, which we must all be aware of. Judging from your statement at the SMC Congress that you do not agree to urgent action because this can lead to mistakes, this suggests, at least in my opinion, that you are not aware that we cannot or should not wait to remove these unsustainable situations. In fact, my question was only about waiting species, because there are many problems, so I wanted to focus only on the issue of increasing waiting species. Well, this same question has been asked by fellow Vrtovac and you have answered it quite thoroughly from all aspects of what you are going to do and which actors will be involved in reducing waiting lines. That is why I am now interested in waiting species only because you are not in this good half year since you are Minister and when the waiting years have increased considerably this year, especially in the case of specialist reviews, as he has already pointed out in his colleagues' statistics, so I would not repeat them. Why didn't you take action? When can we expect the citizens and citizens of this beautiful Slovenia to settle this health situation? So that we do not tremble at how much longer we will have to wait for a specialist’s examination, so that our health will not deteriorate in such a way that there will be no more solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u184	Your Honor! Your Honor, thank you for asking. Allow me first a brief answer to the first part. I think that the Government's normative programme of work, and thus the Ministry of Health, at least this year, and also for the second year, is very detailed and it is clear which measures or system laws are either linked to the implementation of the European Directive or to the whole system law as part of the beginning of the upgrade or, if you wish, the reform of the health system. We are therefore in the final stage of the Resolution on the National Health Plan for Slovenia for 2016-2025, which will include all the activities, measures and targets we want to achieve with it. At the same time, together with the analysis being prepared, as well as with numerous laws, either by a reduced procedure or by amendments and additions. So much for your first statement or question. Even waiting periods, as I have already replied to Mr Wrotec, we cannot really believe that what is being published is really real and real waiting types. Why am I saying this? Because we have now received a comprehensive review report from the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been reviewing the waiting lists of various hospitals for quite a long time. The findings were as I mentioned earlier in the answer to the question. We need to establish this control at all levels so that we can actually get to the real waiting lines, and then we can talk about how long they are, how long they are, how long they are, and so on. That's the first one. And second of all, you say I haven't done anything in five months. Unfortunately, I have to tell you, you have probably noticed that at the Ministry of Health we have taken a strong stand and succeeded in the framework of Annex 2 to the 2014 General Agreement only for waiting types of 6.6 million You know, in addition, a lot of noise caused in the public visa of the Health Insurance Office – we have also been able to provide 30 million additional funds for programme surpluses and partly for waiting periods. So unfortunately we can't agree that in these five months [[…]] I think we have done a lot, but I agree that there are many things inherited and unresolved from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much! Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Karl Viktor Erjavac, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, Minister! As you have already mentioned, I also wanted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because the problem I am talking about and will be answered by the Minister for Environment and Space is, in fact, both of them. But it's a gas terminal in Zavaje. According to the media, we read again that the Italian Ministry of the Environment should start again by thinking about putting a gas terminal in Žavaje. In 2013, when the idea of building it first appeared, the Slovenian government strongly opposed it. While the situation is different now, the European Commission has repeatedly warned Russia that the European Union should reduce its dependence on Russian gas due to the imposition of sanctions. The Slovenian and Italian municipalities around the Gulf of Tržaška are calling on Italy to stop the procedures for the Žavlje gas terminal. They also point out that in 2014, the European Commission established that Italy should seek a location for a gas terminal in the northern Adriatic in cooperation with Slovenia, but Italy appears to have different plans as it did not place any gas terminal in the northern Adriatic on a new list of priority energy projects. This could also be done without the consideration of Slovenia and the European Union. The fact is that the new European priority list, which will be prepared in a few months and which does not have a terminal in Žavaje, will eliminate all rights and obligations under the old 2013 Charter. Thus, the European Commission's provision that a location in the Adriatic should be sought for a neighbourly location, on which gas terminal opponents in Žavaje are also betting. The withdrawal from the priority list also means that they are obviously no longer counting on European money, but they can place it in their own procedure. Indeed, they are still committed to the EC under the Convention and Directive on cross-border environmental impacts, but the obligations are significantly softer. It is true that Italy still has to keep us informed, but there is no more mandatory agreement and a mechanism of complaints and complaints. That's why I want to know: Does Slovenia have any relevant information regarding Italy’s behaviour with regard to the gas terminal in Žavaje? Indeed, according to the information provided so far, the Italian Environmental Impact Assessment Commission considers that this is in line with the design of the Trieste port, and at our Environment Ministry, you point out that the plan you received in the cross-border procedure does not contain a terminal. That's why I want to know: What is the position of the Ministry regarding the planned construction of a terminal in Žavaje? Have the ministries acted in any way? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much! Mrs. Irene Maycen will answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Member, Mr Daniel Krivec! I will take this power to reply to you first, which was prepared at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I have been asked by Minister Karl Erjavac to give it. That is, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs operates in accordance with official Slovenian positions, which is against the specific location of the terminal in Žavaje. As far as you are aware, Slovenia considers that the potential environmental impacts of the potential terminal in Žavaje are harmful, as well as other serious reservations based on the proven negative impact of the gas terminal on the environment, the population and activities – the protection of navigation, fisheries, tourism. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participates in the Interdepartmental Working Group on Terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška and together with other departments, in particular with the Ministry of Environment and Space, and is working closely to coordinate the preparation of Slovenia's concrete responses to the fact that the Italian Ministry of the Environment and Protection of Space and the Sea has again adopted the 2009 environmental agreement, which was previously frozen. The Slovenian DKP network is active, both the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Rome and the Consulate of the Republic of Slovenia in Trieste and the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. Friday, 27. 3. 2015, Mr Geržina transferred the Slovenian rejection position to the terminal in the conversation to the Italian Ambassador to Slovenia. The Slovenian position, which was transmitted to the Italian interlocutors, refers to Slovenia's expectation that, in further internal procedures under the Italian Government, Italy will not approve the Zavlje gas terminal project and therefore do not issue a construction agreement and notify Slovenia of the final environmental decision in accordance with Article 6 of the Convention on the Transboundary Effects on the Environment. It also points out that when a European list of projects of common interest was adopted in 2013, in the presence of the European Commission, it was agreed that the terminal location in the northern Adriatic would be decided in agreement with Slovenia and Slovenia therefore expects Italy to cooperate with Slovenia on the location of a potential terminal in the northern Adriatic. In addition to enhanced bilateral contacts, it has also been proposed to revitalise the participation of all countries in the North Adriatic as part of the tripartite North Adriatic Working Group on Energy and Transport Infrastructure, which could help to find synergies in the region in line with sustainable development. Slovenia is in contact with the country Furlanija-Julia Krajina, which, according to our information, maintains a negative attitude towards the project. Our Ministry is working closely with the Ministry of Environment and Space, and I am personally aware of the activities that Minister Majcnova is leading to Italy and other entities. This is the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while the Ministry of Environment and Space, according to the statement, considers that the Zavlje gas terminal is unacceptable, as it will also have a number of harmful effects in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the water environment of the Straza Bay, due to the dispersion of toxic cleaning agents used in the process of heating the fossil gas with seawater, and the dispersion of metallic compounds, in particular the remobilised mercury, with the resuspension of sediments at the construction and operation of the gas terminal in Žavlja – especially when the gas pipeline is carried out on the seabed – on fisheries, mariculture, solubility, tourism, public health, on the biodiversity of the marine environment of the entire North Adriatic, on the transport and safety conditions due to the requirements of safe navigation to the terminal in the Gulf of Žáža, the general safety situation due to the potential for the unforeseemated effects of the seabed and to the unforeseem. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia has been involved as a party to an administrative dispute brought before the Administrative Court in Rome, but from 2009 to 2015, the procedure stands and the main public hearing has not yet been brought. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia then adopted a decision on the preparation of an action before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, the issues were prepared but the action was not brought for the temporary suspension of the environmental consent issued in 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u189	Request for a reply, Mr Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you for that first set of answers. There are a lot of things that have already been known, I have asked more whether you have relevant information on what is actually happening at this time, including in this respect that other countries in the neighbourhood are placing certain facilities without Slovenia's participation – I am talking about the potential oil extraction in the Adriatic and also the gas terminal in Krk, which is being built by the Croatian state. However, I am more specifically interested in what our responses are, given that you also discussed this at the beginning of the month with your colleague from the Italian side, who claimed that the Italian Government had issued an environmental agreement for the construction of the terminal in Žavaje, and explained that they were still waiting for the approval of local or regional authorities. If we know how things are going in Italy, it is reasonable to worry that in a very short time some things can be done very quickly. In particular, because the link between the current land government and the government in Rome is also very closely linked, and it can be a very rapid change of attitude at the level of the country of Furlania-Julia. That's why I want to know: Do you have any scenario to react to at any given time? You have already mentioned that some of the procedures that are currently in place, but as I recall, also other countries obviously, in the light of the experience we have with the Italian side, place their facilities, irrespective of all the conventions signed on both sides. So I ask again what is the position – we have already got the answer, but I am interested in: Which direction have you already taken in the ministries and what measures do you have in store if any of these things start to take place again intensively?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you. For the terminals in Krk, I would say that after the request for inclusion in the process we obtained documentation and there was a public decomposition on our website. In the case of Italy, the question is indeed essential whether it is the same purpose as it was in 2009, whether it is possible to change. Therefore, in this Interdepartmental Working Group, already referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we decided at the beginning of March to write to the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Economy in Italy and to write to the European Commission. 20. 3. In 2015, the letter was sent to ministers on the way envisaged for this purpose, and in this letter we say that the Commission for Strategic Assessments and Assessments of Environmental Impacts at the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of Space and the Sea issued opinions that the gas terminal project in Žavaje is not in line with the port plan of Trst and the assessment that the environmental agreement of 2009 is in force and that we are surprised by their information. Please note that when deciding on the European list of projects of common interest in 2013, it was agreed that Italy would decide at the terminal location in the northern Adriatic following an agreement with Slovenia. We propose further discussions with Italy on the location of a potential terminal in the North Adriatic and on other relevant aspects of this topic and taking into account pending cross-border procedures. It is a gas terminal in Tržič and a port plan for Tripartite North Adriatic and Tripartite North Adriatic Working Group on Energy and Transport Infrastructure. We expect an official explanation of the current procedures for the Žavlje gas terminal project and the transmission of the final environmental decision in line with Article 6 of the Convention on the Transboundary Effects on the Environment, and we want Italy not to confirm the Zavlje gas terminal project. The letter to the European Commission is still being prepared and the content is being coordinated among the members of the Interdepartmental Working Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. of 22 December 2007 This year, the legal deadline for the completion of the transfer of the Official Control Laboratory of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, JAZPM, to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, NLZOH has passed. The UKL under JAZPM has ceased to operate. But did he start working under the NLZOH? Not according to our information! At the moment, Slovenia is without an operational control laboratory. On our market, pharmaceutical companies can feed as they please, and as we know, they can benefit from it, and there is no health. According to our information, the UKL is in fact unable to perform its function for several reasons. The first reason is human resources. The transfer of the UKL did not transfer its most vital part to it, which is precisely what employees, as the Pergam trade union confederation has warned, will not be able to get a new staff in time, and that is exactly what happened. The UKL cannot operate within the new NLZOH framework for human resources reasons. The second reason is the standards that the laboratory must meet to be able to perform the function of an official control laboratory. NLZOH also provides an analysis of the quality of medicines for private companies. In addition to the obvious conflict of interest at the expense of citizens and their health, the European network of control laboratories has a serious problem, as it explicitly prohibits the double role. According to the Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, NLZOH cannot obtain accreditation at all. Not only that we have no UKL, we can't reach it at all, and this is a much bigger problem in scratch than breaking the law at the time of the transfer. We have no control over medicines, and we cannot put them back in place just like that, and in the given situation this is not possible at all. By destroying drug control, who actually gets it? Due to the specificity of the situation, human resources cuisine and policy are, as usual, a highly unconvincing reason. There is also a reason for saving policies, as saving this transfer is quite doubtful. The only valid reason for a person to have a baby is that it is in the interest of someone who does not have an operational control laboratory in Slovenia. In such situations, pharmaceutical companies can throw on the market, which they seem to be. That they serve only their profitable interests, not the interests of public health, and that the lobbying of the powerful do not choose resources, we already know. That's why I'm asking Minister Milojko Kolar Celarc: What are the envisaged public financial effects of the transfer of the UKL? I am not interested in the possible cost of the transfer itself, but in the difference in operating costs sooner and later. How will the transfer of the laboratory benefit public health in the Republic of Slovenia? At present, the official control laboratory does not have this word in any significant way; nothing shows that it will be better in the future. How will you remedy the situation and within what time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members! The National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, hereinafter referred to as NLZOH, has, pursuant to Article 207, paragraph 1, of the Act on Medicinal Products from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicinal Products, Medical Devices, Reduced JAZMP, taken over the premises, equipment, materials for carrying out the analytical examination of medicinal products, documentation, archive and unfinished matters relating to the performance of the tasks of the Official Control Laboratory, located at Ptusjska 21 in Ljubljana, and has remained at this location. In answer to your question, therefore, how this transfer of the laboratory will either benefit public health in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as more effective and better control and control of medicines, should be based on what is essentially the task of the country or what the state has to provide in the field of drug quality control in order to protect public health. The country, even if we are looking at the area in question in a legal manner, is carrying out regular, extraordinary and specific controls on medicines. So, an effective regulatory and supervisory function. Thus, JAZMP and NLZOH cooperated professionally, so they signed a special interinstitutional agreement, which also works in practice in assessing the risk to each medicinal product or group of medicines, as provided for by the Medicinal Products Act, which ensures the implementation of official quality control of medicinal products in our country at a high professional level. An official control laboratory which, within the framework of the NLZOH, will be able to carry out its official analytical testing activities more rationally. It will optimise costs as it has all the laboratory infrastructure available to NLZOH, as well as all the equipment taken over from the Public Medicines Agency; it will also include its trained analysts in the laboratory, the work of the laboratory, if necessary. Thus, through joint procurement, it will be possible to reduce the costs of purchasing the necessary laboratory equipment, in its system execution, in the case of mandatory calibrations in the laboratory, in the case of laboratory materials for analytical work, as well as in the quality maintenance system in the laboratory. As a result, the NLZOH combined all the necessary laboratory expertise in the country in the field of public health with the inclusion of the UKL. It is said that all related activities and their control are thus united in one place. These are water, food, materials, plant protection products, cosmetic products, general use, medicines, food supplements, tobacco and so on. For this reason, I should say that the UKL has also implemented control of about 300 healthy a year in recent years in the framework of the JAZMP, which is barely a good half of the needs on our drug market. This was mainly due to the lack of resources available there, and backlogs of official controls were also accumulated year after year. It is true, however, that certain controls can also be obtained through the international or European network of these laboratories. Therefore, in NLZOH, activities will be strengthened and developed to the extent possible in order to ensure optimal control of the quality of medicines in the country and thus ensure the safe supply of medicines to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much! Request for a reply, Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much! It was clear from the Minister's reply that the answer to my question was how it would resolve the situation around the Official Control Laboratory, how it would cut through this Gordy knot – but it was clear from her answer that we had no problem at all, because this Gordy knot is not there. But I clearly asked: What about the question of finance, what about the question of some savings generated by this transfer? I am particularly interested in the costs at this time of the official control laboratory under the NLZOH, and in the costs incurred by NLZOH under the JAZMP. I'm interested in a very specific number here. That's the first thing. Secondly, the official control laboratory does not exist as an official control laboratory without the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. This thing is problematic in at least two points. Firstly, because the UKL is not nearly as perfect at this time as it should be; it is said that it is with a competent staff who knows what it is doing there, which is highly qualified for its work and so on. Secondly, even if this staffing complement were there, this does not help in a situation where the European Directorate does not recognise that at the same time such an institution carries out a drug control activity on the market in certain commercial contexts. In short, I estimate that your answer was incorrect, that your answer was flawed, because it just started by not recognizing the problem at all and avoiding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much! Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u200	Just a few more numbers. Indeed, the situation is not problematic as regards work and ensuring control of the quality of medicines. As long as the UKL was in the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, between 2012 and 2014, its revenues ranged from EUR 600 to EUR 700 000 and total costs ranged from EUR 850 to 970 thousand. It is said that the costs or expenditure were higher than the revenues. NLZOH, however, has a planned revenue of approximately EUR 580 to 600 000 for 2015 and expenditure is at the level of the planned revenue. Therefore, because there are lower labour costs, lower costs of services, support and investment in equipment. Which, if we look closely, is not going to be an organisational unit that is independent and separate, because there is no conflict of interest, doing business without loss. However, the final effects and the final savings will be determined after the one-year operation of the UKL within the NLZOH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's response be discussed at one of the following meetings. It is particularly problematic here that, while we can talk about numbers and it is right and my question is also a criterion for this, but there is a problem at the point, as I said earlier, that the Official Control Laboratory is not without the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. And following amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products of 2014, this Act entered into force on 22 March 2014, it has just expired one year ago for the full transfer of UKL from JAZMP to NLZOH. This may have happened, as you yourself, Madam Minister, in some material sense, but this has by no means happened in terms of the actual ability to carry out the tasks of the Official Control Laboratory, as it had previously done. In particular, as I have said, there is simply no official control laboratory without the gist of the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. Many a year ago, in our public space, there was a spate about how things would be arranged by March, how things would be taken care of by then, and that is not at all true. Yes, the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines was indeed scheduled to visit us – an inspection, if you will, for March of this year. But that was totally impossible. This has been completely impossible from the point of view of employment and the timetable of the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. What awaits us now is, in fact, this judgment in July. This is quite a few months over the legal deadline, so at this point the law is actually broken. The second issue here is whether the UKL under NLZOH will even pass this assessment by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. At this point, as I said in the introduction, we do not have control over the quality of medicines, because we do not have an institution that can do so. In any significant sense, we do not have this institution: accredited, in human resources terms; in short, there is no control over medicines at this time. This is certainly some point that we need to talk about, which we need to open up, because it's kind of past the public at the same time a very large and very problematic area is unfolding here. However, these are areas of public health, the issue of medicines and the issue of pharmaceuticals, which is a strong lobby here, as we all know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March, under the vote. Dr. Franz Križanič will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much, high choir! The characteristics of the banks' recovery in 2013 were, inter alia, questionable legality, possibly the illegality of the dispossession of shareholders and owners of subordinated bonds with NLB, NKBM, Banka and Banka Celje, the prohibition of the recapitalisation of NKBM in December 2012 and then again in June 2013. At DUTB, according to the bad bank, quality companies with record or 71 other estimates were transferred – there was no such write-off anywhere else in Europe. It is clear that the bank rehabilitation project has final beneficiaries in the buyers of these rehabilitated banks, we are now looking at the case of NKBM: the country has invested around €870 million, selling it at a price, according to public information, €200 million, the book value of this bank is €640 million, some fair minimum value would be €1.4 times that value, €900 million. The bank is subject to a strong export-oriented growth economy and one of the least indebted people in the euro group. In 2013, the Bank of Slovenia carried out three stress tests in cooperation with the contractors, one on its own and two on its own. One showed two billion 700 million bad claims; the other showed 3.3 billion bad claims; the third showed 4.8 billion bad claims; and the worst possible scenario was chosen automatically, as far as possible, increased public debt. This public debt, of course, will now be paid no more due to the cheap sale of the bank, regardless of the difficulties the Slovenian economy will have when banks are wholly in foreign ownership, branches and the like, we are left with a huge public debt. It was basically an attack on our public finances. I want to know – and this is my question: How much of the budget will be allocated in 2015 to pay interest on leased loans or bonds issued for the resolution of the banking system in 2013?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question. A little longer answer, because it's not quite easy. In accordance with Article 81b of the ZJF, which was supplemented at that time in December 2013, the State acquired capital investment in banks and savings banks in 2013 in order to ensure the stability of the financial system by means of monetary payment and real investment, including for this reason a decision by the Government. The capital investment funds were provided by borrowing the fund from the extent of the country's indebtedness in a specific law governing it annually and from Article 81 of the ZJF and from the State budget's free funds. On the basis of all these decisions, the recapitalisation of banks and DUTB was carried out in the following total amounts: 2 billion 81 million in money and 984, 985 million in securities of the Republic of Slovenia – rounded. The funds for recapitalisation in money were provided in 2013 from the debt carried out under the statutory scope of the debt in accordance with the annual programme for the financing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the fact that the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with this programme for each year, covers the debt for the financing and implementation of the State budget, which includes the financing of the deficit in the balance of revenue and expenditure, the financing of the deficit in the financial claims and investments account and the financing of the principals of the debt to the state budget in the current year, and the payment of the principals of the sovereign budget over the next two years, it is not possible to directly determine the source of the debt intended for recapitalisation. For the purpose of assessing the cost of the budget in 2015 under the recapitalisation of money, the assumption was used that the loan was made from the commitment appropriations made by the issue of the 3-year bond in November because the recapitalisation in December and partly by the issue of the 5-year-old USD, according to the US bond, in the US dollars in May 2013. On the basis of the above assumptions, the interest on recapitalisation in 2013 represents a total of EUR 96 million in money in 2015. For the purpose of recapitalisation of securities, long-term and short-term securities issued by the Republic of Slovenia amounting to a total nominal amount of 998 million, of which 873 million long-term securities and short-term securities, amounting to 124 million euro. Long-term securities were issued by re-opening existing RS bonds and short-term securities of six- and nine-month treasury currencies with additional new issuances. The interest paid on those securities in 2015 amounts to a total of 35 million. The total cost, according to these assumptions, is estimated at a total of 131.7 million — say 132 million — in the amount of the 2015 budget interest on the recapitalisation of banks. However, it should be pointed out that the recapitalisation of banks was financed by commitments, if this is a rule of law, with those commitments which were relatively short-term, which will be subject to more favourable conditions at the time of maturity of debt refinancing, as our interest rates have fallen significantly since then, which also means an appropriate lower cost for future fiscal years. I dropped the DUB here because the interest paid on bonds issued by DUTB amounting to a billion-and-a-half is financed by DUTB itself. In 2014, it paid EUR 46.2 million in interest. That's for what the DUTB betrayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior of the Magi. Spring Györkös Žnidar [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I've received a notice that you'll let go of the question if the Minister doesn't, or I apologize if there's been a misunderstanding. Bojan Podróšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me say that, given the Minister's absence, I expect his oral answer at the next meeting, and I will ask the question today. My question concerns self-sustainment with vegetables in Slovenia. All of us have been finding for some time that self - care of vegetables is very poor. This percentage is low, it is below 40% and because many farms are thinking about producing this very demanding sector, it is vegetables, but the problem is that the Income Act in Article 49 speaks about the fact that intensive vegetable and vegetable production is not considered a basic agricultural activity, so it cannot be taxed after the cadastral income. As an intensive crop of vegetables and herbs, it defines the production of one or more vegetables in a given year. This means that if more than one type of vegetable is produced on a given farm, it is not considered a basic agricultural activity. Given that we have a new perspective, this is from 2014-2020, also a lot of uncertainty as regards agriculture, especially with these uncertainties facing smaller farms, I ask the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture: What measures do they foresee that vegetable production on farms will be considered a basic agricultural activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. At the next meeting, you will receive the reply of the Minister. Mrs Andreja Potočnik will ask the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smerkolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Cohesion policy is the main investment policy in the European Union, as it represents a good 32% of the total budget or slightly less than €352 billion. Of these, Slovenia has 3.2 billion, and together with agriculture and fisheries policy it has 4.1 billion euros. For the successful start of drawing, a national regulation prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development and European cohesion policy is a very important document. In addition, a number of changes were announced, including open calls, the combination of funds with revolving funding sources, e-examinations, the establishment of a single point where all relevant data will be collected for potential beneficiaries. You have also announced that you will simplify the implementation of the budget as much as possible. One of the key orientations is to change philosophy, where the goal will not only be to spend money, as it has been many times before, but will be to use it wisely for projects that will have long-term benefits and effects for Slovenia. I want to know: How far is the Government, with the preparation of all the necessary normative bases for the launch of the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for 2014-2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u212	Dear President, honourable Member, other Members! What an intense period is at this moment not only for our work, but also for other departments. The two key documents are in preparation, the first is the national regulation, which was also mentioned by Ambassador Andreja Potočnik, and the first draft of this Regulation was forwarded in accordance with the plan for inter-sectoral coordination at the end of February and 20 February of this year. We have received quite a few comments on this draft. In view of the fact that we also wanted to receive comments from all stakeholders in this process, from the same date on our website, the proposal for a regulation has also been published and virtually all other stakeholders have also come forward. Therefore, in March, we consulted all stakeholders not only with the ministries and the competent departments, but also with the other stakeholders. These are the economy, local communities, regions, very important NGOs and eventually trade unions. We are trying to get the regulation to the government, but we have decided to run another round in all our comments in order to make the system better. We therefore expect that this week, this Wednesday, the second draft regulation will be sent to new inter-departmental coordination and will also be published at the same time on the Internet of our service, so that we run another round. I believe that this is good in terms of partnership. However, we are all agreed not to apply the whole 30-day deadline so that we can adopt a regulation in the Government by the end of April this year. Another round of documents is very important. These are basically criteria and criteria. This is a document which is important for the establishment of the system and confirmed by the Monitoring Committee. The monitoring committee took place on 25 March, this is last week. At that time, the European Commission was also here, and all other stakeholders and all competent ministries are present in the Monitoring Committee. The Monitoring Committee has identified the high level of preparedness of the document and, at the same time, the date-table procedure as to how the criteria and procedures will be adopted. In short, we expect the framework for the establishment of a new cohesion policy to be put in place by the end of April. Then there will be another supplement, which will now be updated on the proposal of the Government's Law Service, not in the regulation, but in the law on budget implementation, says ZIPRS. This will be the part that is extremely important and with which we have had quite a few problems in previous cohesion, and this is that we have not been able to withdraw funds from projects that have not worked. This will now be settled, not regulated in the regulation, but on an even more important basis, according to the law. We agree with the Ministry of Finance to include this proposal in the May session. However, this is not important for the establishment of the system itself. In fact, at the end of April or later, with the law at the end of May, we are ready to start implementing the new cohesion policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec is not. Mag. Bojan Kranjc – he is not here. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please. She'll ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring of Györkös Žnidar, which is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u214	All present in the Hall! Then I ask for a written answer. I just hope I get it as soon as I can. At the first regular meeting of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, a large-scale material was presented on the chemical and murder resources of the former State Security Service, which poses a major social threat. It is particularly worrying that some of these life-threatening assets are still privately owned today, hidden in so-called bunkers, depots and bases across various parts of Slovenia. It's estimated that there would be about 300 of these bunkers. According to known information, this weapon is a weapon and we're blowing it up for a small army, actually. We are therefore talking about means that constitute a serious security problem and require rapid and effective intervention or detection. Their detection must by no means be left to chance or to a lateral matter. In fact, among these means are firearms, explosives, means of silent liquidation, pharmacological agents, i.e. various organic, inorganic toxins, narcotics, chemical, incendiary agents, crowd alarm ampoules, and much more. The central problem we have here is that these funds are still in the so-called operational function, and the big problem is the records that are not there. It is also frightening to note from the documentation at one of the depots that in the event that the depot opens the uncalled, a mine that destroys the entire contents is activated. Can you imagine children or families finding such a thing in rebuilding an object? It's just that we can't play with security, and the Minister knows that. These funds are uncontrolled matters that can endanger entire cities. But worrying is much more information because it has the power to dispose of these funds without authorization. In short, it is a serious problem that requires the acquisition of accurate information or locations and, finally, the safe destruction of the found substances. Since the minister knows the problem, at least she should, I'm asking: What is concrete about this, and what else is he going to do, knowing that we are talking about the threat to property and the lives of people?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The answer will be given in writing. Mr Hainz will now ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u216	Madam Vice President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much, but my secretary isn't, either, but I'm going to ask you a question, and I hope I get an answer. Actually, it's the next one. For the constitutional definition that Slovenia is a social state, it is extremely important to regulate the field of health care for people. In the Coalition Treaty, we have stated that the government will advocate quality and effective health care, compulsory health insurance will maintain its universality and accessibility to legally defined health services while providing funds in solidarity. In the field of healthcare, we will advocate a clearer border between public and private health activities. At these basic points, I would like to give you a thought and ask you a question. The first thought must be the next. I hear the Ministry has ordered a study on the problems of Slovenian health abroad. As far as I know, they have submitted full analyses of Slovenian health at the Ministry, and Slovenian civil society has also been involved in the debate and published a number of articles from doctors and also people who know health care, so the question is how much is necessary to order abroad. At the same time, what we need to know or what is essential is that the same measure in a foreign country or situation in a foreign country is not comparable to ours, and the same measure, the same law, for psychological or political reasons, can lead to different results at home. However, regardless of the other parts of the health reform, we could decide very quickly to change supplementary health insurance, which is the essence of my question. We could mathematically calculate how much money is collected today from voluntary supplementary health insurance and just distribute it by a socially defined scale and not the same for everything as it has been so far. This is especially important for Desus or for the people we represent and are mostly from the lower part of the social ladder. That's why I'm asking: When will the Government take up supplementary health insurance arrangements as an important part of the health reform? I know I've simplified this calculation a little bit, but I think the answer can be very simple. Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Health, Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Primož Hainz, thank you for the question. As you have already rightly stated, in fact, in the coalition agreement, there is an obligation to convert or abolish supplementary health insurance into a form of duty that will compensate for the revenue now collected from such insurance. As you probably know, the normative programme for this year provides for the preparation of the Health and Health Insurance Act by the end of this year, which will also include such amendments. This law will parallel the law on long-term care and insurance. Therefore, not only will it be necessary to reshape this insurance in the context of demographic movements or the ageing of our society and the need to regulate long-term care, but it will also be necessary to include such requirements or expenses in this transformation or changes in this insurance, together with a levy which will be collected on a solidarity or reciprocal basis, and also that part that is intended to remain for commercial insurance companies for the so-called real voluntary insurance products, either in health care or in the work of long-term care. If only to change the supplementary insurance in the current context, it is known that the average nominal premium of around EUR 28,29 for persons insured in this system is approximately EUR 420 million, a million 430 thousand, could indeed turn this into a certain duty and thus obtain, at least, all the operating costs that insurance companies now need for their operation and also the part that will eventually require additional capital adequacy recapitalisations at the time of the introduction of the Solvency Directive on 1 January 2016. In addition, this conversion will have to take into account different options or ways, with one of the possible ways of equaling the nominal amount for all, but perhaps other combinations where this income solidarity would be taken into account and, for example, this nominal amount would depend on the income status of the individual insurer. To conclude, this proposal will go to public debate by the end of the year, together with a long-term supply law with all possible solutions and combinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Otherwise, it would be much easier to ask if the minister were in the hall. According to my information, she did not predict absence, but I hope that she is listening somewhere, but, above all, it will be good if the answer is both substantive and positive. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment about the airworthiness of Slovenian rivers with motor vehicles. This is a question that touches a number of municipalities and places that lie at one of Slovenia’s major rivers. As we all know, the municipalities have the opportunity to regulate the navigation of certain parts of the rivers where they lie, but when the issue is raised with motor vehicles, this is in accordance with Slovenian legislation, i.e. the Inland Water Navigation Act and the Water Act, under the authority of the Government, which has the possibility to regulate this issue with individual regulations. Each river has its own characteristics, so that there has been a general response from the representatives of the Minister for the past decade that some common law on the navigation of Slovenian rivers with motor vehicles cannot be made up of a common equation that each river or section of its river must have its own regulation, so I am interested in, for example, good practices in foreign countries, especially those we follow, Austria, Germany, when they want to contribute to the local economy and, above all, tourism to enable them to sail by motor vehicles. But in our case, it looks like a case of good practice, kind of like this. I come from the lower Sava, where we already have several hydroelectric plants built: the Bosniak, Blanca, Krka hydroelectric power plant, before completion, Brežice hydroelectric power plant, and all Posavci hope that once we have built the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant and obviously every hydroelectric power plant will have to have its own regulation if it wants to sail with motor vehicles. I asked Mr Židan, the predecessor of the Minister, in May 2013 how the regulation on the use of motor vehicles at the Bosniak hydropower plant provided for the adoption of the regulation in the first half of this year – that is, in 2013. One year - nothing happened. The same question in May 2014, the answer: "The possibility of sailing will already be in this season" – and nothing happened. I have already asked the current Minister of the Environment twice how to navigate the Boštanj hydropower plant, i.e. by motor vehicles, and the second time it was said, "We are telling you that the regulation is on the list of the Government's regulatory work programme in 2015 and is expected to be adopted at the end of March 2015." The minister has one more day to adopt the regulation, but we've been waiting two years for nothing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Tomaž Lisec, do you request a written or oral response to the next meeting? [[advertising from the hall]] You didn't say anything. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. The Regulation is expected to be adopted at the end of March 2015. This is in accordance with the normative work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I was expecting an oral response today. I expected a positive oral response. If I wait for the oral response of the April session, the date will be delayed. If I wait for a written reply, given that the government usually barely adheres to a one-month deadline, at least what I have personal experience, I have received the latest reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who waited three months for an answer, and probably again the Lower Council will receive the same oral or written replies in 2013 – this year, 2014 – this year. I really hope that any response will be that there will be no response in 2015 and I will ask again in March 2016 when any regulation will be adopted. I expect a written answer, and I expect it within one week. If the government keeps its promises, let it fulfill them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u223	Okay, we're going to give your opinion to the Ministry, and I hope you get an answer. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will raise a question to the Minister for Finance, Dr Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, Minister, Madam Minister! Dars and his employees are currently carrying out toll control tasks under the Public Roads Act. By carrying out this task of toll control, revenue generated from the issued payment orders shall be generated, i.e. fines which are the total revenue of the state budget. Total direct and indirect costs such as work, services, material, depreciation, prisons, administrative costs are the full burden of Dars d.d. This is a unique case in Slovenia where the road manager exercises toll control, all revenue is the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the contractor himself is charged with the cost of carrying out this task. Mr Minister, I know that this area is not direct, in short, an area falling under the Ministry of Infrastructure. This area is governed by two laws: the Roads Act and the Tolling Act. Since this task is also linked to the revenue of the budget and because without your consent, it is said without the Ministry of Finance, it is not possible; Minister, I ask you: How do you see the future reimbursement of the toll control costs to Dars?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u226	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Unfortunately, as you have already determined, this question does not fall within my jurisdiction and I must not interfere with the powers of other ministers. This issue is such that it needs to be addressed systematically; you have already mentioned this, it is said in the sectoral legislation, which I have already discussed in my conduct. I, as I said before, cannot interfere with the substantive decisions of the other ministers. Also in the Public Finance Act, the provisions are linked to the decision of the heads of directors of direct budgetary users and the key responsibility for the legality, purpose and efficiency of the management of budgetary resources. Why am I exposing this? Since the reimbursement of these funds to Darsa should come from the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and is therefore under the full responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure. In inter-sectoral coordination, we coordinate both substantive and financial aspects and cooperate; but how the whole system of ideas is put in place; it is a matter of the Minister of Infrastructure. I'm very sorry that I can't answer you, because as a professor, I really want to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. If I only make it more concrete now, what kind of order of size in a financial sense is this? A little less than €7 million is contributed directly to the budget annually from fines. However, the cost of implementing this toll control is slightly more than 3 million. That's actually going here, if I say so, to reimburse Dars for these good 3 million. I also absolutely agree with you that this is a matter of system order. Now I'd like to ask you: Are we talking about good 3 million a year in this cross-cutting coordination, because this is an intervention in the budget -- we are talking about good 3 million a year -- if your agreement were to change the rest of the relevant legislation if it was to agree here that these costs would be reimbursed to the beneficiary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. At the Ministry of Finance, we do not interfere with the individual budgets of individual ministries. If the Ministry of Infrastructure provides these funds within its budget, of course, within the framework that is being set up and negotiated on the whole government, then we do not object. Each minister shall set his priorities and determine where the money will be allocated within that common limit. There's no harm done here, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u232	Dear Minister, thank you for this addition. But here, entirely over this change or amendment of the law, only the Secretariat Ministry is not entirely independent because it is linked to the state budget. Secondly, if these fines were to go within the framework of the departmental ministry, then this is exclusively and unique only to their domain, how they are allocated to the revenue and expenditure of the departmental ministry. However, since these funds go to the state budget, the Ministry of Finance has competence for the state budget. We know what the state of Dars is, that he has a lot of financial obligations, that he has to build the remaining motorway sections in the future, and that it will require quite good maintenance of the motorways. Including an exceptional increase in freight traffic, this year-on-year maintenance is so much more expensive. Dars is a company that is 100 % owned by the State and for which the State has also made a guarantee. We can't care how Dars deals with his income. Each euro must be turned rationally in this society. I do not think it is primarily Darsa's job to fill the Slovenian budget, but to build and manage Slovenian roads well. For this reason, I propose that a public debate be held on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 31 March. Mrs Erika Dekleva will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Well, I, too, wanted to ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen. Since this moment is not present, I ask for a written reply; and like my colleague Lisec, I hope that you will not have to wait for him for 30 days or more. In autumn 2014, Slovenia suffered large-scale flooding affecting most of the country's territory. During this time, there was a lot of talk that watercourses were not properly maintained, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 27. 11. 2014 adopted an action plan for flood-related interventions prepared by the informal interdepartmental working group in cooperation with the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The action plan is divided into several sets; in the first set is defined a set of urgently needed intervention works on Slovenian watercourses and water infrastructure, which will prevent damage in the event of a flood, of course we are talking about similar intensity or volume in 2014. A selection of parts was prepared by the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in cooperation with the economic public water management service operators and was to be carried out within 6 months. For these works, up to €11 million, 949 thousand 500 is to be provided, up to €841,000 in the 2014 budget and up to €11 million, 108 thousand in the 2015 budget, to be provided in January. In connection with this, I am interested in: What is the realisation of the works carried out after the half-life foreseen for the implementation of the first set of action plans? At what stage is the implementation of a second set of watercourses, water infrastructure and water and coastal land for 2015, which generally ensures greater flow of Slovenian watercourses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President; Mrs Erika Deklava, honourable Member. In 2014, you have already said for yourself that work has been done; we also now have all the means for intervention works that have been launched differently on different watercourses. For example, for the Mura basin we have completed 1/4 of the planned measures, for Drava also about 1/4, the Savinja basin also about 1/4, the Sava below is practically in the final stage, as 6 out of 7 measures have already been made. The central Sava basin is about 1/2. At the upper Savi, it's 4/36, that's 1/9. We still need to take a strong grip on the upper Sava. The Soča River is also about 1/11. The Adriatic rivers – 3/18, we are also at the beginning of the intervention work. Many other measures are listed in the Action Plan itself, not only the provision of flood safety in implementation. Thus, millions of euros are currently available for regular maintenance work in the budget, and we are also in the process of adopting a water fund plan, where we will be able to provide an additional €7 million through the revised climate fund plan, so that we will have a total of €8 million for regular maintenance during these initial months. However, I see the success of this action programme only in that all the work we have planned has been fully carried out, especially because it is essential that the watercourse is fully regulated in order to ensure higher flood safety. If not, then it means that on a particular section, on a particular section of the watercourse, if the works are not performed, how soon will the flood take place? It is probably already well known that during last year an invitation to tender for the selection of concessionaires was concluded. The contracts were signed, the decision of the Government was taken, and complaints were made to the audit committee which confirmed the elections, except in two parts, so that we are required to re-examine the procedure for selecting the concessionaire for Soča and the Savo. This means that in the future there would also be a slightly lower price for concessionaires. In this programme of implementing works, I also take as very positive the fact that mayors in many cases have decided to contribute with a share in their area also measures that ensure higher flood security, which means that these measures are given more resources and much more attention than before, because, of course, damages and compensation are not done to prevent these events. This can only be done with works performed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister and Minister! Mr Vice-President, I must point out that I expect that in the future, if the Minister happens to be unannounced, and our fellow Members ask him a question, at least for a few minutes, you will cancel the meeting of the National Assembly because I think it is a matter of underestimating the opposition. Or say we don't want to keep these items on the agenda, and let's end the National Assembly. Well, my point is, I'm disappointed about this government attitude. Let me go to the content now. Madam Minister, the question of the Ptuj Emergency Centre – I can say that we have been talking about this for six months about long and wide, what is going on, when something is going to move. At its 2nd regular meeting on 11 February, the Health Committee adopted a decision proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the network of emergency centres. This decision was adopted unanimously, with 15 votes in favour, which I am pleased that the members of the Committee recognized the need for the lower sub-level region to organise an emergency centre in the area. In doing so, I would also like to point out that the total number of hearings for 2014 amounts to as much as 44 000 366, which means these urgent ones, which according to the data of the other comparable environments is completely comparable and expected. At the same time, it also exposes the clear justification and need for the organisation of the Ptuj Emergency Centre, even C2 levels, as it will continue and deepen the inequality in the treatment of residents of the area, which has been receiving significantly less health programmes and money than has remained comparable to the environment for years. At the same time, it should be noted that the General Hospital Ptuj is very far away with its activities. An application for a building permit is being prepared, and the General Hospital itself has invested over 100,000 euros in its own resources. After the meeting of the committee, I also attended the College of Mayors of Lower Podravje, which was on 9 March this year, where they did not propose or ask to organise an emergency centre in Ptuj, but demanded. Because we find that, unlike asking and somehow doing with force, nothing can be moved in this country. At the same time, I would also like to point out that we have already proposed amending the budget in the SDS Group in the framework of the budget rebalancing. With the amendment, we wanted to provide €3 million for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre; this initiative was supported by as many as 20 mayors of Lower Podravje. I can go list them, from Slovenski Gorica, Haloz [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I express or submit to you the request that you proceed to work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you very much! Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, honourable Member of the Council, the other Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Health is reviewing in detail the project to obtain a building permit sent from the General Hospital Ptuj and their compliance with the adopted methodology for setting up emergency centres in Slovenia. As soon as this comprehensive project review is complete, all comments and open questions will be forwarded to the General Hospital of Ptuj. We also expect appropriate clarifications about the scope of the project from the General Hospital Ptuj. In the 2012 investment project identification document, which informs our ministry, it is only a project of an emergency centre or the construction of a ground floor facility for this purpose, while the project building documentation we have at our disposal includes a two-level project. It is therefore crucial for General Hospital Ptuj to inform the Ministry of Investment Programme, from which it will be clear which activities will be devoted, who will be the funder for the programme of this activity, who will be the investor of this part of the facility. Only after the coordination of the above mentioned, the approval of the investment programme and the available budgetary resources will all conditions be met for the Ministry of Health or the Government to classify the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre or to include this project in the development programme plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you for the first part of the answer. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the emergency center in Ptuj has been discussed — without talking, with me not yet present or in the National Assembly — since 2003. As far as I've been able to find out, you can expect documentation about the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre tomorrow or tomorrow. This is documentation from the past, and I would also like to point out that the General Hospital Ptuj and the local community need a specific commitment or a decision by which you place the emergency centre Ptuj in the network of emergency centres. There are a lot of rumors today, or people say what you've been doing these past few years. After all, the general hospital did not know what to do, how to develop its activities in the future, but when the paper did not have this confirmed by the state, by the Ministry, that they were included in the national network of emergency centres. That's why I'm interested or I'd like to know: When will you send the papers to General Hospital Ptuj, with which the hospital will then approach the development and design of the emergency centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u244	As I have already said on the Committee, I cannot judge and assess why the emergency centre in the past has not been included in the system of so-called NRPs or the development programme plan. Apparently, there have also been some regional shortcomings, if I may put it this way, on the other hand, the hospital is called. But no matter what, you have to look to the future. I will be able to determine when the Ptuj Emergency Centre or NRP will be involved when all the conditions and project documentation that will be able to assess and respond to be included in these NRPs are met by the Ptuj Hospitals, as required by the budgetary rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u246	Excuse me, Mr President, I will use the possibility of procedural. I'm not going to make a procedural proposal myself, but I'd like to pass on the invitation. Madam Minister, in the local community, so on Ptuj, the mayors and hospital representatives are ready to adapt and we invite you to Ptuj to sit at the table as soon as possible and agree on specific activities in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbic will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Member, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The European Commission recently published the results of a survey entitled Justice Scoreboard 2015. Comparative results for Slovenia are encouraging in some respects, with others slightly less. Among the latter, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is an important area of accessibility to published judgments. According to the published data in the study, Slovenia is comparatively weak or at the lower half of the scale when it publishes its first-degree judgments. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Secretary in charge of justice, the following questions: Do you consider these results satisfactory? Are you planning to prepare additional measures to enhance the transparency of the trial, in particular in the context of public accessibility to all judgments or other writings of the courts? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, chairman. Member and Members, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Verbich, thank you for asking. Since they will be called Justice Scoreboard, you have beautifully translated them, these results will be the subject of a separate debate at the Committee on Justice and probably also at the plenary session; I would only briefly agree with your conclusion that these results are generally somewhat warm. In many cases, Slovenian justice is above average. Even Commissioner Jourov commended him on certain things. This is today, when the great target of justice, which is being shot at from all sides, needs to be stressed. On the other hand, you might also want better results — and precisely in the field if you allow it, as you have pointed out. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia was one of the first, which is a huge judgment, even from the time of the former, to bring the Yugoslav Paradise online. I also remember that, as a student in the DOS system, I was able to access certain judgments on the old computer. Here the Supreme Court has made great progress in recent years. Judgments are available on the Internet. The problem that this study also perceives is that this does not apply to the judgments of all levels, that this is primarily the case for the judgments of the highest courts, but not for the first-degree judgments, particularly in civil and economic disputes, and for the judgments of the Administrative Court. Your conclusion is correct, and it must be accepted. What can we do? The judiciary, in my discussions with them, upon the outcome of this review, this study or the report of the European Commission agreed that a step forward should be taken here. You know my starting point on the Judicial Supervisor, which should contain all the judgments and also any other decisions of the courts, as is the case with some countries, such as the United States of America, where it would be difficult to say that they have a simple justice system. I think we could get to that part by the end of this year. The practical problem arising from this is simply to establish a system that will automatically process these judgments in order to exclude personal data and data that cannot be made available online. We have also started certain activities at the Ministry of Justice, particularly in connection with some colleagues from abroad who already know such a system. I would add that, even in the context of the new financial perspective and projects to be implemented and prepared under the 11th development axis, there is a need for effective justice, in which there will still be e-Justice, to this end too. In short, in the shortest possible time – we are talking not only about months or weeks, but I believe that less than one year – in Slovenia too, we should get to that point, so that businesses and individual citizens can search the entire judicial collection with easy access to the Internet. And this applies not only to, as it were, judgments, but also to other decisions of the court. I am firmly convinced that transparency increases quality, but also legal certainty. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will raise the question to the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, distinguished Minister and distinguished ministers! Every day we are asked a number of questions, and consequently ideas, ideas and solutions, how this country could be made more open, more friendly and, above all, less bureaucratic in relation to economic operators, especially to people, to natural persons. Of course, it is not about thinking after improvements only and exclusively at national level, in state institutions; it is also at offices and windows at local, municipal level. On this occasion, I will not ask, even though the temptation is severe when the land law will come to life. I am firmly convinced, but I must say this, despite the temptation that the provincial institution would actually mean that it will revive local self-government in the true sense of the word, as well as regional development. Mr. Minister, I want to ask you: What are your plans regarding changes in local government legislation and what activities can be expected in the short term on this topic? First of all, I want to know: What can the municipalities promise in the context of decommissioning in an increasingly wide range of tasks, as well as the complexity of the country's transferees? As a result, will there be a clear, transparent and, above all, a long-term financial sustainable way of financing local communities as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! Thank you, Mr. Prickl, for that question. With regard to local self-government, it is important to stress that we are now at the time of the preparation of the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government, which we have set up this time slightly differently from other strategies and fully in line with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. This means that we have opened the key questions and with these key questions we have gone into coalition coordination, discussions with and seek common answers from the representatives of the associations of the municipalities; exactly what is also the subject of your question. This means how to burden the congregations, how to make them more effective, how to secure that constitutional principle of independent financing. Here is an open question of whether to establish regions or how to establish regions, which are also a constitutional category. Perhaps all I can say is that in the starting points for these talks, including with regard to the creation of an intermediate provincial level of authority, we have come from the view that the entire sum of the powers and tasks shared between the State and the local community must be recognised and decided on what powers and tasks are exercised at the municipal level, which are regional and which are national; that no province should be established out of a purely political desire to have the provinces as such. And so we would set up a new mechanism that would not carry out a completely clear task and thereby undermine our country and increase the bureaucratic burden that could possibly be borne by the established provinces. At the same time, we agreed with all stakeholders that the whole range of tasks, which are also very meaningful at the provincial level, is very important. This strategy will give more precise answers to what are the tasks that we can also perform at the provincial level and make more united. In particular, perhaps the result of the discussions we had last year or early this year with representatives of the municipalities is also important for the relief of the municipalities, namely the formation of well-targeted working groups, which are looking for specific legal changes to relieve the municipalities in individual sets of legislation in cooperation between the competent ministries and the representatives of the municipalities. At the same time, it is also an important part of the Strategy for the Development of State Administration, which, as a strategy, is being concluded, but in practice it is already being implemented to a large extent. This also concerns the functioning of the municipalities, as it addresses issues relating to the effectiveness of public servants relating to information support, non-derogation of tasks, concentration and integration of bodies. This strategy is also closely linked to local action. It is important to know that whenever congregation representatives wish to reduce a congregation’s burden in terms of financing a certain activity or a bureaucratic obstacle, on the other hand, we are faced with the provision of a standard that the congregation must also finance. If it's not a congregation, someone else has to. Here is a dilemma as to how, how, how, and how, as a result, we can reduce the standard of some public activity. Another important issue is bureaucratic unloading. We are constantly faced with the dilemma that certain procedures can be very simplified, very relaxed, very much left to the discretion or much freer decision-making of individual authorities, in this case to municipalities; on the other hand, we face the demands at the same time daily to eliminate certain anomalies in a way that makes certain systems more clear and more subject to regulation. In both cases, there is some weighting of the arguments for and against. I have recently seen the greatest achievement we have been able to achieve, namely that we have established close, periodic cooperation with representatives of local communities and representatives of individual departments, who actually need to prepare and implement these legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Uroš Prikl, a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Koprivnikar, I very much welcome and am pleased that you have embarked on a strategy for the development of the local community, although we all know that the strategy itself does not yet have those obligatory moments, such as legislation itself. However, it is certainly one step further in the search for long-term sustainability. Once again, the clear delimitation of myself and you, I will repeat, the clear delimitation of tasks between the country and the congregation is essential. We like to talk about the so-called lean country and the local community, but above all this is essential for the optimal functioning of the country at all its levels, especially for the benefit of citizens. Why did I ask you this question right now? For the most part, the adoption of the budget for 2016 and 2017 is at the front of the door. I certainly do not want to be under some time pressure again, under some time pressure looking for the last minute and such or other solutions as under the headings "close" the budget for the next two years. At the same time, you need to know that we are representatives of the people, of all the people, but coming from the individual local communities that are addressing us. The municipalities are turning to us with the desire to help them. Of course, we want to like and help our congregations to do their best, but let us take advantage of this opportunity, and in some ways we encourage the department to do even more at times than at a given point in time of resources and opportunities. I'll be very happy if you bring into life this so-called amphibian that will [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] an intermediate article between the basic organisation cell, i.e. the local community, and between the country as a whole. Thank you very much, and thank you for your written reply, which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u258	If you'll excuse me, a few more explanations. It is a matter of delimitation and therefore we also point to the State administration's Development Strategy, because this is a question of the jurisdiction of the municipalities, and then also those which have been transferred to administrative units. It's a question of integration. I strongly encourage the participation of the congregations in ongoing tasks through the common municipal administrations and the integration of the municipalities into development tasks. So far, we find that these integrations are already ongoing in practice. For example, 195 or 197 municipalities are included in the Joint Municipal Administration and, on the other hand, these forms of integration should also be given a more formal form due to the performance of European funds – that is to say, it is going in the right direction. However, as regards budgets and financial burdens, the fact is that we are all operating in certain financial circumstances, which are limited and we need to allocate in some smart way these funds that are available to us. It is precisely the case in 2015 that we have made very strong commitments to agree on the average in the second part of the government that the legal changes will be regulated. This also requires a change in the funding of municipalities in the second half of the year. We will also continue this way of dialogue in 2016 and 2017. The question is, where is the most rational exercise of those powers and those shared among the congregations, potential provinces and also the country? This is also the answer to this question, which, in my opinion, is also in the interest of citizens, voters, citizens, that their funds, taxpayers, are used as rationally as possible for the development of local communities as well as for countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Procedural? No, no, no. Thank you. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that. A warm welcome to the ministers, both to the ministers, our ladies and fellow Members! I'd like to ask the secretary about a story that's had a goatee for a long time. What's this all about? For the gas terminal in Žavaje. The Italian Ministry of Economy or Economy has somehow completed this story two years ago, it has been frozen and is now being reopened at the initiative of an investor named Gus Natural from Spain. It is clear that this is probably part of these stories with the energy sovereignty of the European Union and also because unfortunately the South Stream has been shut down. The fact is that this gas terminal for the coast and also for us Primorce is very dangerous. Dangerous in terms of environmental impact, jobs and, God forbid, accidents. Various initiatives took place years ago. A negative opinion has also been made clear by the Slovenian Government. At the time of this reopening, Renzi's government gave a green light to redesign and to the actual continuation of this process for the construction of this gas terminal. In great fear, the mayors on the Italian and Slovenian sides, civil initiatives and all other stakeholders in our coastal life feared that this process would continue. That is why various initiatives and public tribunals have also been convened. Recently, there was a representative of the SMC and the United Left in Cyprus where we were also present. It was this concern that the mayors and other media have also seen that we are afraid of what the Italian government will do next. My question concerning you is: What is the position of the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, the Slovenian governments? I hope it is negative and that with some letter or pressure you will do so because I know that this project without any express permission, Slovenia will probably not be able to go. Do you also have in mind possible actions against the Italian government? Let me also say that in the Maritime Members' Club, we have taken our stand and applied against this gas terminal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u262	Dear President, honourable Member, Mr Marko Ferruga! As you stated in your work and in the circle of the wider Slovenian community, especially in Primorsk, the news that the government has confirmed this environmental permit, which has been resting for a long time, has been very resounding – and in a negative sense. According to our information – also in local communities on the Italian side. The MOP's position has not changed in any way. We believe that the Zavlje gas terminal is unacceptable, as it will also have a number of harmful effects on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the water environment of the Straza Bay, due to the dispersion of toxic cleaning agents used in seawater heating procedures and the dispersion of metallic compounds, in particular of remobilised mercury, at the suspension of sediments at the construction and operation of the gas terminal in Žavlja; in particular when a gas pipeline is carried out on the seabed. Furthermore, it will have a negative impact on fisheries, mariculture, solinary, tourism and public health, the biodiversity of the marine environment of the entire North Adriatic, the transport safety situation due to the requirements of safe navigation to the Gulf terminal, the general safety situation due to the possibility of unforeseeable or uncontrolled combustion of the steam cloud of the combined natural gas and the heat radiation generated by it; and the cumulative and synergistic effects of these factors. Nevertheless, or precisely because there have been many changes in the process since 2009, with the help of external experts, we will be amending studies on cross-border impacts, following these findings. You've already stated for yourself that this story has had a beard for a long time. It started in 2009 and then Slovenia became involved in an administrative dispute brought before the administrative court in Rome, but the procedure stands. The main proceedings were not even called for. At that time, the decision to bring the action before the European Court of Justice was also adopted, but since the proceedings were later frozen and did not proceed, no such action was taken. As an expert opinion was issued on 6 February that the gas terminal in Žavaje is in line with the plan of the port of Trst, the said environmental consensus and procedures were also revitalised. The Interdepartmental Working Commission on Gas Terminals reopened its work and adopted conclusions at its first meeting to respond to contact the Minister of Environment on the Italian side and also to the Minister of Economy and to write to the European Commission. We have already sent these letters to the ministers on the Italian side, we expect an official clarification from the point of view of our follow-up, particularly because of the Convention on the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts; and a letter to the European Commission, which we are still waiting for and expect to respond to from the Italian side. I am dedicating myself to this event, and I must admit that I have already received my first responses from this meeting at the seaside, which you yourself described. We will continue to monitor it and take appropriate measures together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you very much. With this we have completed the first round and are moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. Mr Franc Jurša will raise the question to the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smercol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u264	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Even on my part, everyone has a very nice greeting! I would like to ask the Minister for Environment and Space if time allows her to remain in the Chamber at the time of my question and the Minister's answer, because this question is very relevant. But I have just decided to ask the Minister without a department, for strategic projects and for the cohesion of Mrs Alenka Smercol. In the introduction, let me say that I have been associated with this Pomeranian water supply for more than ten years, I was also the mayor of one of the bearer municipalities, I signed the first contract, 26 of the municipalities signed the contract then, and the 27th of the municipality where I was mayor did not sign. I have estimated that these activities should be carried out so that all citizens, citizens and citizens, including our congregation, will receive healthy drinking water to their homes. The Government's development and European cohesion policy services carried out inspections due to expressed suspicions of fraud in Pomurje's drinking water supply projects. The Ministry of Environment and Space has proposed stopping payments from the European Cohesion Policy budget line until the situation has been clarified, which has also happened. The state has stopped payments for the work done and has been delaying them for more than two months. The country's debt to the builders of the waterworks is as high as EUR 6 million. Independent expert committees have verified the suspicion of fraud and rejected it as unfounded. As a result, the Ministry of Environment and Space of the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy already proposed the release of suspended payments on March 9th, and then again on March 17th. Unfortunately, to this day these funds have not been released, at least until today I have not received this information. On the first call from the Ministry of the Environment, your service informed that all conditions for the release of suspended payments had not yet been provided. That's why I want to know: What are these conditions that have not yet been met? When will your service release these funds? I also ask you about finding responsibility for the situation. Who is responsible for even stopping payments based on unfounded suspicions? Who is responsible for the fact that the Murean pipeline will not be built by the end of this year – I hope it will – as envisaged? What will be the consequences for those responsible or the person responsible for the delay in construction and thus economic damage?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u265	Thank you very much! Madam Minister Alenka Smercolj will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u266	Dear President, honourable Members! Mr Jurša, I thank you for this question, and I am also pleased to clarify some things. What really happened? 29. Last year, just before Silvestrov, we received a letter from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy, which was not addressed to us, but to the specialized state prosecutor's office. It was sent by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for transport, energy and space. In this letter he reported a suspicion of the offence of fraud at the expense of the European Union. Then what did we do? On the basis of such a declaration and on the basis of the fact that the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport, Energy and Space is a separate state authority, and also because the request for inspection did not come from our service, we were able to react in our service as a management body in only one way – and this is to stop payments until all situations are clarified. On the basis of the Inspectorate's application, we have requested a competent ministry, saying the Ministry of Environment and Space, to clarify immediately or as quickly as possible what actually happened. In fact, the ILO reacted immediately and, as an intermediary body, sent and carried out more on-the-spot checks. They informed us of their findings with two letters. With the first one, 9. 3. – we asked for further clarifications, which we then received 17. 3. In both letters, the ILO, as the intermediate body, indicated that, on the basis of the findings of the expert committees of beneficiaries and the identification of the operators with whom they communicated, and the findings and opinions of the intermediate body listed in the on-the-spot reports of the extraordinary on-the-spot checks, it was not possible to detect irregularities in the drinking water supply project. This means that the irregularities identified by the Inspectorate have simply not been established. On the basis of this response and the ILO's explanations, we are as the Government for Development and European Cohesion Policy by letter of 19. 3. found that there are no more reasons for the retention of payments and reimbursements of European cohesion policy funds on the Pomeranian Drinking Water Supply Project. The letter was sent to the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Finance in the role of the paying authority, the Ministry of Finance in the role of the audit body and also to the representatives of the beneficiaries, to the municipalities of Čresnjevci, Grad and Ljutomer. This has released European policy funds from this project. Let me stress once again here that there is still a procedure under way coordinated by the specialised State Prosecutor's Office and carried out by the National Investigation Office. This procedure is independent of our actions or of all other stakeholders, and we cannot influence this procedure. We did what was in our power. Since irregularities have not been identified, we have released funds. Let me also point out that I believe that the construction of all three or all four steps of the waterworks will be completed in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Here's a request for a reply, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u268	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer. But I would still ask you specifically, because I didn't get this answer: When will the congregations receive this money?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u270	We're 19. 3. the funds have been released; everything else can now go according to the established procedure – through the intermediary body that examines the accounts and then the certifying authority, which then executes the payments from the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! In the Alliance Group, we are pleased that the Law on Marriage and Family Relations has been adopted, as we see in it a solution to many questions. We're all the same before the law. And only by consistent respect for this principle and by not imposing our way of life on each other will we be able to make progress as a society and, above all, to become more patient. Unfortunately, I have to go back to 2012, during the referendum decision on the Family Code. We have also heard similar arguments from opponents, who have strayed from the content that the Code has brought. It was about combining family law into a single code, which brought some new solutions and solutions to the legislative level, which had already been drawn up in court practice and at the level of social work centres. Among other things, he regulated the relationship between parents and children, the form of State aid for difficulties between partners and the duty of survival, adoption, foster care and guardianship. Most importantly, it also allowed the country to intervene more quickly in family relations where this is necessary in terms of the protection of family members. In Slovenia, 722 foster families have 977 children. So 977 children who do not have a family or for various reasons cannot live with their parents. Matrimonial care is intended to be a short-term measure of its original nature, but in practice this has become a long-term relationship that extends far beyond the full age of the breeder. More and more, we hear that with such a foster system as we now have, we do not help our children. The solutions offered are quite something. In the Alliance Group, we are convinced that only by taking the child away from biological parents and putting the child in a foster family have we achieved nothing. It would be wise to consider a limitation of a certain period of time, such as three years. If biological parents did not respond at that time and remained discouraged, they could be deprived of their parental rights and put them in foster homes, where they would enjoy the inner peace that every child seeks. The possibility of so-called open adoption is also offered as one possible solution for children in long-term care and when forecasts of return to their home family are poor. These are adoptions where parents and children can maintain a certain range of contacts taking into account the needs of the child. I want to know: How far is the adoption of appropriate comprehensive family legislation, as already prescribed by the Family Code? What solutions will you propose in the field of child care and decision-making when faced with dangerous family situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u273	Here you go, Minister Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u274	Dear Member of the Magi. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, thank you for asking. Honourable Vice-President and all Members present and Members of the National Assembly! The family code was not essentially called the code. It was actually a comprehensive arrangement of these relations, it still deeply grieves me that the Family Code fell at the referendum, but that's how it happened. Part of the story will be regulated, I hope that now; that it will also enter into force with the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as you mentioned. However, there is certainly a key part at the Ministry, this is a re-regulation of child protection measures. Preparations are now under way, professional bases, even when the Family Code was being prepared, all discussions were opened about the institution of foster care, adoption, and also about custody. This is one of three measures in the field of child protection where, in fact, parents should be biological or social, they are not concerned in accordance with the interests of the child. At that time, the State has the right and the duty to enter into this most sensitive family relationship. Back then, there was a lot of talk about foster care, about the duration of foster care. In the proposal for the Family Code, fostering was, in principle, limited to three years, while exceptions were made because they were necessary. Nursing now after we look at the situation, we find that there are quite a few children in foster care who are of full age, who are in their interest, that for various reasons this foster care lasts longer and that they are not deprived of the possibility of fostering at age 18. Another is when parents who have differences, such as mental disorders and want to care for their children, but cannot. In such cases we have long-term foster care and then foster care in relatives. We have a lot of them, too. I agree with parents, biological or social, i.e. parents who have parental or parental rights, as defined in the Family Code, if they are not concerned, and that in intensive work with social work centres, who have to provide assistance to the home family, to address the reasons for which they cannot take good care of the child, it does not offer him a good enough environment to develop, so that in this very intensive work, which must be reasonable, there is no need to eliminate the consequences, the most drastic action must be taken – this is the removal of parental rights or our current law-designated parental rights. It is certainly open and that is why the working group is working in this area because the institutions of family law are changing very quickly abroad. It's not easy to say, we're going to copy decisions that were in the Family Code. That is why the team at the Ministry is working in cooperation with the expert and will also have a public debate. This year we are preparing these measures and would also like them at the Government and the National Assembly. This is one of the areas that we want to settle this year. Also interesting is the question of open adoptions. We've had some discussions here. The study was also carried out. She prepared it for the Family Code, I think, Dr. Darja Zaviršek and the researchers. They are positives and minuses of open adoptions, especially the need for discussion. The decision will eventually be an expert decision, but at this point I cannot predict how it will be. But there are some institutes, for example, France has the possibility of partially open adoptions, and there are different options. But it is necessary to separate, we have a custody measure, we have a fostering and adoption measure that is for different purposes; and it is the same. Many times it turns out that children need to be taken away and put into adoption first. Yeah, little kids really want to be adopted. When children are older, these options are not so large that adoptive parents suffer. There is a need to pay attention to these institutes. The legislation is clear in line with the intention to write, but also to make exceptions because situations are very different. However, I certainly agree that we need to recast these measures, which have been in force since 1976. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšek, request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u276	I would like to thank you for your comprehensive response. I am pleased that this issue is your priority; I hope and wish that you will also take it away this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Then there's no need for an answer. Dr. Franc Križanič will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u278	Dear President, Minister, High Council! Economics is an activity, theoretically taken, that reduces people's resource constraints. If we go to the level of the national economy, it is divided into 4 major stages: production, consumption, distribution and exchange. With optimal production and exchange, or if we consider that we will not focus on problems with them at the moment, then we have a decisive second stage in management – these are division and consumption. In the modern national economy, we believe that in all textbooks, they practically assume that the goal is prosperity. It is said that all people living in a given national economy benefit from the results of the management; not, for example, the accumulation of capital in a minority, or the power of the state or even the benefit of foreign owners, if the country is already in the post-colonial stage of development, or the power of their country. Even when we observed the effectiveness of foreign investments in the Irish, which have been most effective in promoting these investments, we saw that, in terms of prosperity – also ecologically oriented – we checked whether the investment made sense or not. And now I'm asking a question. More information has emerged recently that there has been a serious deviation from the principle of welfare in the abuse of working time, particularly in foreign-owned companies. My question is: What measures is the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs implementing or planning equal opportunities for sanctioning the abuse of labour law by employers in commercial activities, in the area of shorter, four-hour working hours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you. The Ministry, in particular the inspectorate, which is the body of the Ministry of Labour, is responsible for the supervision of employers. In the event of a chain of trade, he has carried out more controls. In 2014, the Republic of Slovenia Inspectorate for Work, the trade activity carried out a thousand 396 inspections. Among all the violations identified by labour and trade inspectors in 2014, there were a thousand 13 violations, violations involving payment of work – 240 infringements; and working time, rest and rest – 133. The inspectors also found several infringements in the field of protection of the dignity of workers at work – 45 or infringements in relation to the conclusion of fixed-term contracts outside the cases provided for in Article 54 of the Labour Relations Act, there were 54 infringements. The controls were also carried out with employers Hofer Shop, d. o.o., and Lidl, where there were no major derogations. As it was also often public about the conclusion that Hofer and Lidl had a shorter working time in the trading network, there was no breach in this area, but the inspection did not. The Labour Relations Act provides in its 65th, 66th and 67th Articles for the possibility of short-term contracts. When we talk to employers about the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, it is largely exposed by employers to the fact that this is not cost-effective in Slovenia. I found it very interesting to hear that the Hofer and Lidl network were doing this. It is also interesting and should also be seen in the collective trade contract, which has been concluded, which allows for a different division of overtime work; at the same time, it is a contract where the consent of workers is concerned, as well as in accordance with the collective trade agreement. Even Hofer and Lidl, when it came to this; I think Hofer sent an explanation, even in some way advocates that wages are higher than the average in the trade industry. The flexibility of the Labour Relations Act must, of course, allow, we have provisions that the law, when it comes to parental care or health care, that the State pays contributions for work for shorter working hours. This must be about these workers and workers. We'd probably prefer to work full-time, but maybe not. The question, of course, is how much volunteering is in this or the obligation of coercion, just as some flexibility in marriage must be given. Of course, we are concerned about what this will mean for these workers and workers in the event of pensions. We need to know that lower contributions are paid for pension and disability insurance for shorter working hours, which of course will be known in the end. In fact, there are no elements of a violation of the law in order to be competent. However, it is interesting and the law in connection with the collective agreement for this industry must be read together, because elsewhere, for other areas, it is usually explained by restrictions such as overtime, the division of overtime. There were no other branches of this agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Križanič has a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thanks for the answer. I'd like to ask: In this case, is it not the legal basis for reacting and establishing some normal relationship that is expected for someone who, just from our market, draws his income, does not bring exports, but gives work, at least to pay for it? Do you foresee any changes in the legislation?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you. This is a way of determining whether to limit the total free will of people and also in some way those who accept them; all European countries are aware of the possibility of receiving and working part-time. And in this case, Slovenia's arrangements in this area are not different. Even if we look at the proportion of people working for shorter working hours in Slovenia compared to other European countries, this is absolutely below the average of the European Union. We're actually on the tail working with shorter hours. However, the question is whether legislation can only prohibit and thus prevent those who might want to work with shorter working hours on a voluntary basis. I agree that it is difficult to define this element of volunteerism or coercion. The aim of the legislator is to protect a more vulnerable category, but in fact it only occurs in the trade sector, which is, in my opinion and in the light of the review, mainly in relation to the collective trade contract; and not only the subject of the Labour Relations Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u286	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! At the end of 2014, you presented a new Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia for public consultation and discussion. When we talk about long-term strategic orientations, let us talk about transport, housing policy, youth, I think it is good that a good, quality debate is held before this – not only in the field of other stakeholders, but also in the National Assembly. I am interested when we talk about this development strategy, because I attended the round table, which was held a few weeks ago in Ormož, where I took note of some of the objectives of the strategy. I want to know: What is the approximate timing of coordination and adoption of this strategy? Will it also be decided in the National Assembly? But I am certainly very interested in Ptujčana because I come from the lower sub-regional region, which is one of the less developed: Have you also taken into account in writing these strategic guidelines that we have a law on coherent regional development in force in Slovenia? Every Member needs to know where it comes from, and somehow it would be logical to advocate the development of its places. We note, however, that in Slovenia certain centres are still developing much faster at the expense of the underdevelopment of other parts. Here I also think more of the northeastern part of Slovenia. I want to know exactly: How will this strategy affect the development of transport in the less developed parts of Slovenia, i.e. the lower sub-level work? How will this strategy affect the construction or completion of projects that should have been completed in the past, but may not have started to build at all, or have they stopped? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gasperšič will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members and honourable Members Mr Andrej Chuš! With regard to the issue of the strategy, I would like to say the following. The strategy, as the name itself says, is a strategic document and as such refers to the issue of transport development in fact at a strategic level. It treats all levels of traffic, so road, rail, maritime, air and also public passenger transport. And the strategy is to identify transport needs, in fact transport problems in some observed planning period based on a transport model, which has also been internationally verified and incorporated into the wider area; it is not only a transport model in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this transport model, the actual needs were then identified and the need to ensure an appropriate transport link between Ormoje and Ptvo and Ormož and Maribor was also identified. In this context, the strategy has also addressed this issue of this region, but of course it does not provide concrete answers to how this transport problem will be addressed. This part is then planned to be processed by means of a so-called operational plan, which will follow up on the basis of the strategy adopted. What's this timeline, a plan? We expect that the strategy will be prepared in the draft government hearing by summer. We expect that it will then be adopted in the government by autumn, until September. However, it is not envisaged that the strategy would be a document to be adopted in the National Assembly. In this respect, this will be a government document and, as it is said, an operational plan will then be drawn up. On the question of what will happen to projects that have already been included in some previous documents, such as the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme. As we say, on the basis of this result, which will be drawn up in the operational plan, where we will take into account these real needs and implementation options, where we also want to explore alternatives in terms of reconstruction, upgrade within the existing network. If this is not possible and thus ensures an appropriate transport standard, there will also be checks on the possibility of carrying out new road sections. In short, this way these matters will be examined and the results can be different from those of the past, for example, in some other times already imagined. In particular, in this part between Ptvo and Ormož, we know that there was an attempt to place a four-way fast road, but with this installation there were quite a few problems, at the section by Ptuj Lake. This arrangement encountered problems and, in fact, was never successfully completed; and in those parts, it was already closer to Ormož. We know that even certain sections have been built in the past and are not actually in their full function now. In short, all these facts will be taken into account and then the corresponding transport links will be defined, which will actually serve the needs and will also be economically justified so that they can then be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplemental request, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Minister, for the first part of the answer. I'm also kind of glad that you gave an example of a quick connection between Ptvo and Ormo. I attended the round table myself in Ormož a few weeks ago, and I must say that she was very well visited. At the same time, in the previous term of the National Assembly, I had an office in the municipality of Markovci. There they relied largely on me with questions, but it was individuals from the congregation of Ormož, from the congregation of Markovci, the congregation of Gorišnica, what is now with this fast road. We can read a lot, but no one knows exactly what's gonna happen. And now that I've heard of the strategy for the first time, I've got a bad taste, because in Slovenia, usually everything is somehow packed into strategies and then it's focusing on the strategy to sweep something under the rug. In this connection of the Ptuj-Ommož fast road, I would like to say that the municipalities have already committed more than €10 million in the past. The construction has already begun twice, and the result is expected, the product has been 20 years – and it is something really amazing. The project's taking too long. All living things have happened and the anger of the people from that region and places is justified because the road should have been completed in 2013 even after the 2004 projections. The location plan was already developed in 1997. At this round table, the representatives of the civil initiative also made it clear that they will not sit at the crossroads of time and that they expect the government and the Ljubljanaians to be upset about taking these desires into account how much money and resources have gone into this in the past. In the final phase, we are taught by the past, as we look at today, at last something is happening on the Dražanci-Gruškovje route, that we must be persistent and stubborn and be able to fight everything. And that's what I'm predicting in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gasperšič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I would just like to say that we are aware that a lot of effort has been made here in the past, but the result has not been desired. As a matter of fact, there was no passage past Lake Ptuj, and the work was closer to Ormož. Our job now is to find a way to find this connection in some other way possibly, rather than with the new four-passenger, to solve this connection with Ptva. I hope and hope that we will also be able to establish a dialogue here with the local population, so that we can look at this problem with a slightly different view and yet overcome this need for a better connection with one appropriate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Then we're done. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 31 March 2015, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
