ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mr Ivan Hršak, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Joseph Horvath, mag. Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Branislav Rajić, mag. Bojan Krajnc, Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Tillen Christmas from 5 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. On behalf of the European Court of Justice in the case number 60642/08, on the basis of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Methoda Dragonji, while at the same time informing you that the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, is currently in Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Government, I would also like to apologize to Minister Dusan Mumorr, who today has international obligations, for taking part in a European Council meeting on the question of Greece. He specifically asked me to apologize. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to briefly present a proposal for a law that is currently under consideration in the National Assembly. The Republic of Slovenia has addressed the issues of payment of foreign exchange deposits guaranteed by the SFRJ as soon as the adoption of the third paragraph of Article 19 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the subsequent Act on the settlement of obligations under outstanding foreign exchange deposits. The outstanding foreign exchange deposits lodged in banks in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia were transferred to public debt in accordance with the law. The Republic of Slovenia basically assumed liabilities to banks that then paid foreign exchange deposits to their depositors, but not under the terms of the Depository Contracts, but in a special way, as laid down by the law. The proposal for a law on how to enforce the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Ališić and the other regulates the foreign exchange role of savers in branches of the old Ljubljana Bank in an area outside the Republic of Slovenia, based on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Ališić and others. The judgment requires Slovenia to take all necessary measures by 16 July 2015 in order to ensure equal treatment of these savers with those who have received applications paid at the domestic branches of the Slovenian banks. As is known, the judgment is final and Slovenia is obliged to respect it as a member of the Council of Europe. The question is whether it is also fair and justified. There is no doubt that this is a violation of human rights, but we believe that all the successor countries of the former SFRY should be responsible for the situation. The proposed law is therefore required to address this issue in the future, not to limit it exclusively to the question of inheritance. The time, financial and international dimensions make the matter very complex. The Interdepartmental Working Group and the Group of Legal Experts have been working intensively to find solutions. The bill thus includes comprehensive solutions that are considered professionally and which we believe are appropriately addressing the elimination of human rights violations on the one hand and the protection of the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia on the other. It reflects the fair relationship between the property rights of the savers and the public financial interests of the State while ensuring the prevention of potential abuses. The public financial burden for Slovenia is estimated at EUR 385 million and includes an assessment of the principal with interest by the end of 2015, the costs of administrative procedures and other costs related to the enforcement of the judgment. The law defines the outstanding old foreign exchange role relating to the branches of the Ljubljana Bank in Sarajevo and Zagreb and defines the beneficiaries of the payment, which are either original holders or have acquired the claim on the basis of an inheritance or a valid legal business. The law lays down the verification procedure to be carried out by the Succession Fund following the administrative procedure. The procedure will identify the beneficiaries, the existence and the level of the principal and account for the interest. First payments are expected in the second quarter of next year. We estimate that it is extremely important for Slovenia to ensure immediate payment to the bank account in order to exempt payment of taxes and interest in Slovenia. This is also closely linked to the solution to the remuneration, which we will later be able to explain more precisely. An important challenge is also the implementation of the database, which will allow for the verification of eligibility and the level of the principal. The Council of Europe is responsible for the supervision of implementation, which has already expressed its satisfaction at how Slovenia is working to resolve this issue. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to endorse the proposal for a law as set out in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u4	Dear President, representatives of the Government, fellow Members and Members! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 31st urgent session. 6. 2015, i.e. the previous Monday, as the parent working body, addressed the Proposal for a Law on the method of enforcement of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Case No 60642/08 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In the introductory supplementary explanation, Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, presented the financial and implementation aspects of the bill. The High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia presented the background for the drafting of the bill, the difficulties encountered by the Interdepartmental Working Group and the key guides that the Group had to take into account. It further clarified the aspect of human rights violations and, in this regard, the reasons for the judgment and its effects and referred them to the question of the outstanding negotiations with Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the succession. The Legislative and Legal Service presented an opinion in which the draft law examined, in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects, some comments of principled nature and specific comments to each article. The proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups took into account, in their view, a large part of the comments. In view of the fact that this is an issue that has been open for over 20 years, a suitable broad debate followed. The members of the Committee agreed that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights should be respected, but at the same time highlighted the need to be informed of the reasons why such a judgment had taken place. In this context, the responsibility and the long-standing failure to resolve the issue of savers and heirs in general, the available and used remedies and the possibilities that Slovenia remains. The issue of possible consultation with Serbia, which was in a comparable situation, was also raised. They were also interested in the financial implications, the finality of the reimbursements, the setting of interest rates, and the possibilities to object to the information calculations to be received by the savers. Particular attention was also paid to the potential risk of additional requirements for the recovery of intangible damage. With regard to the impact on the budget deficit and the payment timeline, several issues related to the rate of payments and the impact of those in the light of the ESA methodology, which is the basis for EU reporting, were raised. The completion of the envisaged financial structure was also addressed from the point of view of the lack of data for the assessment of the range of Bosnia and Herzegovina savers, where there is a serious problem with non-existent or insufficient records. Furthermore, members of the Committee also wondered when it would be known whether the law to be adopted by Slovenia was appropriate and when the burden imposed by Slovenia would be deemed to be met. In the course of the discussion, representatives and representatives of the Government answered the questions raised. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled to the article of the bill and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 has not been adopted. As a result, their amendment to Article 19 became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you also have a very good greeting together, as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. We have before us a proposal for a law that we will unanimously support in the parliamentary group. We don't have an alternative. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Ališić case is final and pilot, which means that it concerns all other similar cases. For Slovenia, this means the obligation to enable the payment of old foreign exchange depositors in the Ljubljana Bank, the main branch of Zagreb, and in the Ljubljana Bank, the main branch of Sarajevo, which has not yet been paid on any other basis. We need to adopt the law by 16 July of this year at the latest, otherwise the European Court of Human Rights could have defrosted all other foreign reserve procedures against the Republic of Slovenia. The judgment for Slovenia is clearly a severe blow, but in the Desus Group we agree that the fact that an individual has been unable to raise his savings for more than 20 years is a violation of human rights. The judgment is final and Slovenia is obliged to implement it. Unfortunately, the public financial burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will not be small. The overall assessment of the financial implications of the legislative proposal amounts to EUR 385 million, which includes an assessment of the principal for both branches, interest until 31 December 2015 and the costs of administrative procedures and other costs related to the enforcement of the judgment. The law also lays down the verification procedure and will follow the administrative procedure. It will identify the beneficiaries, the existence and the amount of the individual outstanding old foreign exchange deposits and account for the interest. The administrative procedure will implement the Succession Fund, which will require substantial human resources reinforcement to that end. In order to carry out this task, it will be necessary to employ approximately 30 people in the coming months, and I hope that they will be redeployed within the national authorities. A good deal of thought was devoted to issues of interest and currency conversion. In the Desus Group, we believe that the competent authorities have followed the sentence of the judgment to the greatest extent possible, while at the same time pursuing the objective that Slovenia should not be harmed in this segment. Since the relevant data for the main branch of Sarajevo exist only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and since this data has not yet been provided, despite our numerous efforts, the law contains a provision to decide on the requirement to verify the outstanding old foreign exchange deposits at the main branch of Sarajevo until all relevant information is obtained. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we would like to draw attention to another request in which the same court in Strasbourg ruled against our expectations. It is an action by the Ljubljana Bank against Croatia for the payment of the debt owed to the bank by the Croatian sugar factory in Osijek. The judgment is written in such a way that, in other cases, the Ljubljana Bank, through the European Court of Human Rights, will not be able to recover the claims it has on Croatian companies. In the parliamentary group, on this occasion, we appeal to the competent institutions to take full advantage of the possibility of reaching an average solution on this issue. Slovenia will fulfil its international obligations by adopting the law in question and is also entitled to the payment of the claims made by Ljubljana Bank to Croatian companies. In the parliamentary group, on this occasion, we appeal to the competent institutions to take full advantage of the possibility of reaching an average solution on this issue. Slovenia will fulfil its international obligations by adopting the law in question and is also entitled to the payment of the claims made by Ljubljana Bank to Croatian companies. We are aware that the Ališić issue is very complex because of its time and daily political aspect. We believe that the proposed solutions are professional, well-thought-out and designed to remedy human rights violations on the one hand and, on the other hand, adequately protect the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia, as far as the judgment permits. Therefore, as I have already said, we will confirm the proposed solution in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u7	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! Today's law, which we are considering, provides for the fulfilment of the obligation to savers on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and that is why we will also support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. While it is the payment of old foreign exchange savings at the branches of the Ljubljana Bank in Zagreb and Sarajevo, and despite the fact that the judgment also shows that the issue of old foreign exchange deposits is also a hereditary issue, the fact that this hereditary issue has not been adequately resolved throughout this period can also be said to be guided, so that some of the serious issues relating to the rights of natural persons remain unresolved. Of course, this has created a significantly greater obligation than it would have been if we were aware of this in time, and people, natural persons, were exempt from these procedures. This is how we talk today about the financial implications of almost €400 million, an estimate of €385 million is made in the bill, and this is certainly a number where we need to be very careful. Many of the procedures we have been carrying out in Slovenia over the past period to try to balance public finances will also depend heavily on this fact. This is a very high amount, and in these debates, which were also held on the Committee and which were linked to responsibility for the situation, these procedures and these solutions could not be supported because the European Court of Human Rights did not determine the responsibility for not paying those applications, but rather addressed the role of savers who did not receive those applications and therefore suffered very great damage. So the very procedure for determining responsibility must be defined separately. However, this is also one of those procedures that we will be able to include in the list of outstanding issues in the business of Slovenian banks. However, the financial obligations that have arisen are currently taken over by the Republic of Slovenia and it may also be necessary to say that all the deposits that we have already paid in Slovenia and have been paid to all those who have lived in Slovenia have been transferred to public debt. So, for these too, they will become an integral part of public debt and an integral part of interest, if I may say so, of all people in Slovenia, because this then touches every individual. It will not be too much effort to put an end to the procedures relating to the succession issue as soon as possible. It will certainly not be too much to ask whether all these procedures taken with regard to these savers have been correct and, but not elsewhere, this sum of funds does not exist. As I said in the introduction, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support this law because it is a matter of enforcing the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and I hope that this will at least mitigate the serious consequences already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! The Slovenian public must first of all say that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is not criminal to Slovenia, but that it was the injustice of the Government of Demos and all subsequent Slovenian governments to Croatian and Bosnian savers. The savers of the Croatian and Bosnian branches of the Ljubljana Bank are not responsible for the conduct of Croatian and Bosnian authorities, while the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the conduct of its banks. The judgment of the European Court of Justice has only exposed one of the negative consequences of unilateral secession. The Assembly adopted the guarantee law only for foreign exchange accounts with Slovenian banks in the Slovenian territory, but not with Slovenian banks in other republics. The territorial principle was not the only option. It was the option that best suited the Republic of Slovenia or the Republic of SerbiaThe only banks that operated in other republics, so they waived their obligations. On the other hand, banks from other republics did not operate in Slovenia and Serbia, so they did not have to pay foreign banks' obligations due to territorial principle. The situation of the other republics was just the opposite, so that the territorial principle was not in their interest, so it cannot be said that these republics acted improperly. All the heirs protected their narrow financial interests. Slovenia could not rightly expect to do otherwise, so the responsibility to the savers is primarily our responsibility. I stress this because the Slovenian public opinion has been drawn up on the basis of the official position of all the governments so far that the role is a question of succession. No one's denying it. No one denies that commercial banks were not free of foreign exchange and guaranteed by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. However, the judgment showed that Slovenia would have done the right thing if it had paid these applications first and then tried to obtain compensation in the context of the succession negotiations. If we had done this 20 years ago, we would have avoided the cost of interest and, above all, we wouldn't have harmed the savers. Then the Slovenian banks might also retain the reputation they had at the time of the accumulation from all of Yugoslavia, while today the Slovenian accumulation flows to Western Europe and the tax haven. Above all, it would help innocent people. We must not forget, in 1992 thousands of brands in Bosnia or Croatia could have been the difference between death and survival. In the United Left, we therefore stand for the consistent payment of all savers. Above all, it is important that the Succession Fund examines the eligibility of compensation. The European Court of Justice has explicitly warned that no application shall be rejected simply because the applicant no longer has the original feeding book. We have just proposed amendments to ensure maximum predictability and fairness of the procedure. In the United Left we will support the law. While 385 million is a lot of money, very little is compared to how much we paid for denationalisation. Contrary to denationalisation, the payment of these damages is our moral duty to the people. This obligation would be much smaller if the then Demos government or later governments admitted and immediately removed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u11	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The proposal of the Law on how to enforce the judgment of the European Court of Justice relating to the payment of old foreign exchange deposits by the Croatian and Bosnian depositors of the Ljubljana Bank is, in fact, one of the still unresolved issues of the legacy of the former SFRJ countries, which is not covered by the Vienna Succession Convention. The account for this still unresolved hereditary issue will be again raised by our taxpayers; the amount of an account of EUR 385 million. In view of the content of the specific judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Ališić and the second against the successors of the former SFRJ, Slovenia does not in fact have any other option than to regulate the legal basis for the payment of the old foreign exchange deposits of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is a pilot judgment, which means that it also applies to all other similar cases. The European Court of Human Rights, in dealing with the issue of the payment of the old foreign exchange deposits of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia and Bosnia, did not in any way take into account the fact that the hereditary issues are still unresolved, but its decision was based solely on the violation of human rights and on this legal basis the resulting liability of the State. The content of the draft law itself would, in our view, require a broader debate and adoption on a regular basis, but it is obvious that the Government has delayed the drafting of this law for too long, and now, due to time constraints, the law must be adopted on an urgent basis. The deadline for the adoption of the law is, according to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, 16 July 2015. In this way, we hope to avoid the obligation to pay additional intangible damages to former depositors of the Ljubljana Bank who have already requested judicial protection before the European Court of Human Rights and the failure to pay their foreign exchange deposits. Also due to the obvious timing in which the law is adopted, the bill has a considerable flaw and, due to its content, it will again be able to lay the groundwork for further action by savers before the European Court of Human Rights for human rights violations. That's what we're worried about. We also point to the need for a very clear definition of legal subrogation, which is also highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. The law must be adopted on the legal basis that in all cases, when the State of Slovenia fulfils its obligation to the saver, it shall automatically pass on all claims paid together with interest, to the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, the Republic of Slovenia will be able to require the sharing of these obligations in the succession negotiation process with the countries of the former SFRJ. We are convinced that this financial burden must ultimately be borne by all successor countries according to fair shares. Despite all the concerns of Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - we will not oppose the proposal for a law on how to enforce the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights No. 60642.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u13	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen! Last July, we were all surprised by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights; it surprised us, and unfortunately not in a pleasant sense. In the Ališić case, the Court of Human Rights requires Slovenia to take all necessary measures within one year in order to enable the complainant and all others in the same situation as them to be paid old foreign exchange deposits under the same conditions as those in the domestic branches of the Slovenian banks. The Grand Chamber unanimously ruled that Slovenia and Serbia violated the rights to the protection of property and to an effective remedy for the applicants, savers of the Ljubljana Bank or Invest Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the collapse of the former Yugoslav common country, Slovenia has advocated resolving this issue as many other issues within the framework of the legacy. The Court did not agree with the Slovenian view of the issue and ruled against us. The financial consequences of the law we are considering today are considerable. The government has estimated the capital and interest and the other costs incurred by implementing the law to EUR 385 million. This is certainly the amount that represents a huge supply for our country. The bill provides that savers from BiH and Croatia will be paid in a two-year period. Such a short period of time surprised us a few. We wondered whether the deadline for implementing the law was a little short and would overburden the state budget in 2016 and 2017. On the committee, the representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Finance convinced us that it was the capital, that is, EUR 257 million, planned within the public debt for 2014. Of course, they didn't show us this anywhere. We can either take our word for it or we can't. Moreover, they themselves said that they did not even know whether EUR 385 million was the final amount of Slovenian liabilities. The fact is that in the next two years, Slovenian taxpayers will be deprived of this amount. Despite all the warnings, you insist that the obligations be paid within two years, regardless of the price to be paid to Slovenian pensioners, public servants, social workers and others. In the Alliance Group, we are aware that this is an obligation that the state must settle, so we will support the law. The responsibility for law enforcement is, of course, yours, in government and coalition. But we will remind you of our warnings when you arrive at the National Assembly in the autumn of the preparation of the budget with a request to amend this law, which we are talking about today, where you will extend the deadline of implementation; I am sure this will happen. And no one at this point is forcing us to settle such a huge obligation in such a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for saying so. All in attendance, all in attendance! The bill before us reflects the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia to follow one of the basic general principles of international public law, that contracts must be respected, "pacta sunt servanda". By accession to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Protocol, Slovenia has committed itself to respect and enforce the judgments of the Strasbourg Court, whether or not it agrees with them. The judgment in the case of Ališić and the other, which is certainly one of the more complex and at times confusing judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, is certainly one of those with which Slovenia cannot agree, and we attach it to the SMC Group. The "Sui generis" of the banking system of the former SFRJ despite the break-up of the former state, and after its own independence, the issue of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank was resolved. In accordance with the territorial principle, which is generally recognised as the hereditary principle of international law, and on the basis of the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Fundamentals of the Constitutional Charter, with which the National Bank of Yugoslavia has taken over the guarantee of foreign exchange deposits lodged in banks in its territory, Slovenia has made it possible for the depositors to be made available on their own. In good faith, the question of Slovenia was then closed. In doing so, it should be stressed that the Ljubljana Bank, d.d., has not been liquidated and all its obligations remain active today, but in relation to the legal entities in the area of the former SFRJ are the subject of an inheritance. The view that the application of the territorial principle is appropriate under the terms of the succession and that the subsequent negotiations prefer the way to resolve the situation with the foreign currency savers of the Ljubljana Bank, the Strasbourski court not least expressed itself in 2008 in the case of Kovacic and others against Slovenia. However, in the case of Ališić and the other, the Grand Chamber of the Court decided differently in 2014 and justice was, or at least, sufficient. Indeed, it is fair that the savers of the Ljubljana Bank are paid for violations of their fundamental rights. These are true stories of real people who have suffered too many real consequences because their right to protection of property and the right to an effective remedy have been gravely violated. It is not fair, however, that the responsibility for this payment lies solely with the Republic of Slovenia and only with the Republic of Slovenia. This does not reflect the general principles of international law mentioned above, but in particular the commitments made to the 2001 successor agreement by all the successors of the former SFRJ and on the basis of which the foreign reserve issue should be resolved in the framework of negotiations under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements in Basel. Unfortunately, though, the reality was different, as the heirs to the negotiating table were coming with a fig in their pocket. The responsibility for not resolving the issue until now is borne by every government that has failed to resolve the issues at an appropriate interstate level and has allowed the matter to finally be resolved into the hands of the European Court of Human Rights and the successors responsible have hidden behind individual claims. That is why, in the SMC Group, we believe that Article 23 of the bill under consideration is crucial, as the enforcement of the judgment assumes a subsidiary nature, which means that Slovenia will enforce its obligations as a claim in accordance with the relevant provisions of the successor agreement. But the first step must be the timely implementation of the pilot judgment. The law before us is an optimal systemic solution, which has recently been undermined by the Committee of Deputy Ministers of the Council of Europe. With it, Slovenia will pay the approved foreign exchange depositors in accordance with the principle of asset conservation, taking into account and balance the public financial interests of Slovenia on the one hand and the wish of the beneficiaries for early payment on the other. The law thus does not constitute a compromise between responsibility and justice, but it treats both full implementation and full implementation. In the SMC Group, we will therefore unanimously support the bill, and in the future, we will undoubtedly watch over the government and Slovenian diplomacy, which must make sure that responsibility for more than two decades of ongoing human rights violations is fairly distributed among the successors of the former common country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u17	Mr Janez Janša, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u18	Your Honor! Even Slovenian taxpayers, who will have to pay this EUR 400 million, have never seen this money directly or indirectly, are individual stories. This will result in lower pensions, salaries, scholarships to students and students and a larger developmental backlog of Slovenia. The explanation of this law, to put it bluntly, is flawed. In order to understand this problem, it is necessary to return to the time of the end of the 1980s when the former Yugoslavia fell through the seams and the then authorities negotiated a new agreement with international creditors with the active participation of Slovenian politicians. Yugoslavia was in charge of over $20 billion at the time, and this agreement, negotiated by them, is called a new financial agreement or agreement, after which all commercial banks in the former Yugoslavia guaranteed a common Yugoslav debt. In the background, there was a political decision that, as far as liability is concerned to foreign creditors, Yugoslavia should be financially intertwined so that the secession of any of the republics would not be paid. At the same time, arrangements were reached within Yugoslavia, such as between Serbia and Slovenia, between the then chief of communists in Serbia Milošević and Slovenia Kučan, that Yugoslavia should also be within the financial mix and that then two banks of the Ljubljana Bank in Slovenia and the Belgrade Bank in Serbia were given a political directive to turn independent legal entities across other republics into branches, into daughters. Ljubljanska banka Zagreb was a separate legal person guaranteed by the National Bank of Croatia until 1989, and then a directive came to the effect that this should be converted into a branch and responsibility fell on Slovenia and, consequently, we now see after 26 years, on Slovenian taxpayers. In 1994, when this fact became apparent, the same people who cooked the problem proposed a constitutional law. In the old hall in the same place, MEPs had to accept it in a few hours, but the National Assembly was closed and surrounded by the police, and then the clauses relating to the solidarity responsibility of the savers and the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia to these applications changed and the problem arose in a legal sense. From this point of view, the judgment of the European Court of Justice is not entirely criminal, but we have cooked it ourselves or are alone. However, it is partly criminal, as it follows from the judgment that most of the responsibility, which has actually been incurred, is borne by the majority of the burden, the lost lawsuit of the Ljubljana Bank against debtors in Croatia, on the other hand, this same principle confirms – and here it is necessary to ask for the responsibility of those who represented the Slovenian State in this proceedings. And the people we send from Slovenia to this institution, who have worked against our interests in this particular case – compare only the first and second judgments. The people who supported these decisions at political and technical level later created the first bank hole in the Slovenian banking system and at least part of them also a second bank hole of 8 billion, which I am talking about. Therefore, the adoption of this law without these additions, which we have proposed to identify liability, makes no sense. Our support is tied to supporting these amendments, and at this point the largest government party will also weigh. Before the elections and even later you said that you were without botts, if you were without botts, you would vote peacefully for those amendments that claim to be responsible here. But if you have a pair, you'll say no.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonja, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would just like to make a few comments on the presentations of the groups of Members and on the emphasis given in these presentations. The public financial consequences of the law, as has been pointed out practically in all presentations, are considerable. The responsibility for the effective implementation of this judgment by the European Court of Justice is great. The government has tried best to establish a mechanism that will allow for the verification of old foreign exchange deposits, but will not impose excessive administrative burdens on the depositors. A number of legal experts have been involved in the search for these solutions, so that there may otherwise be some shortcomings in the implementation of the law itself, and we expect that the law is made up in its entirety in order to enable it to function effectively. However, we will need to establish an adequate administrative capacity in line with the success that will enable this. As regards one of the indications that the territorial principle was valid in Slovenia for savers of Slovenian banks, I would like to point out that the territorial principle was applicable to savers of all banks operating in the field of the Republic of Slovenia, not only Slovenian banks, but in fact the only solution in this law is not affected by the law, since the law actually covers savers of the old Ljubljanska Bank outside of Slovenia in Bosnia and Croatia and is intended to regulate the enforcement of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This is a key guide followed by the Government in this regard, and the rest will be explained by individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u21	Now, I ask you to apply for the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group, by allowing for a slightly broader debate than usual, following a well-established procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members, representatives of the executive branch of power, a very nice greeting! We have a agenda item ahead of us that cannot be proud of the National Assembly. Why not? Since this is the topic, the content of which the Slovenian executive authorities failed after two decades to complete or close the story, called the foreign exchange depositors of the Ljubljana Bank in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this is what is drawn from the ancient year 1991, when the independence of the Republic of Slovenia was carried out from under the former common country. This is my criticism to the other current authorities. It is not my intention to analyse and state the reasons why the Slovenian authorities have not done enough to avoid the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. It is true, however, that this judgment came at a time when the Republic of Slovenia faces a reality called the stabilisation of public finances. The sentence of the judgment means that after a long period of 24 years, the unpaid owners of their savings called foreign exchange deposits will reach their money. Certainly in the past, the institutions of the highest state authority in the Republic of Slovenia should do more and be more active and also more decisive in the disengagement processes. Such negotiations took place, inter alia, before the Bank for International Settlements and, as is known, after the second round of the 2002 negotiations, they stalled because, at that time, the unwillingness of the Republic of Croatia's participation was mainly due to their views on how to resolve this open issue. The fact is that we are also convinced of this recently, if I may say so, by the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the case of an action brought by the Ljubljana Bank for claims against legal persons. As far as the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, it is a slightly different story and we should simply not forget that in 1993 this country simply unilaterally supported the Ljubljana Bank of Sarajevo. Just so much about events from two decades ago. As it is said, politics has not been able to resolve the so-called hereditary issues in relation to the new countries. I will touch on another matter in this regard, namely that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not have a happy hand when it appointed individuals who represented the interests of our country. I cite this because the judgment in question does not take into account all relevant facts relating to the Republic of Slovenia. However, I stress that, irrespective of the substantive decision of the European Court of Human Rights, it is the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia to implement it in full and within the time limit set, in accordance with the signed European Convention on Human Rights. It must be acknowledged that it is complete and enforceable. For the proposal of the law before us, despite possible concerns about individual provisions of the law, I believe that it is optimal for the Republic of Slovenia at this time. Why do I think that? From a procedural point of view, the outstanding foreign exchange depositors of the former Ljubljana Bank Zagreb as the Ljubljana Bank of Sarajevo have the opportunity to exercise this right in a credible manner and in a reasonable time. As regards the material content of the bill, however, I am of the view that I trust the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Government that the legal provisions are a good basis for the final closure of this unresolved area from the recent history of the Republic of Slovenia. I am also sure of this because of the fact that this matter has been monitored by the Council of Europe through the Committee of Deputy Ministers of the Council of Europe since the judgment in the case of Ališić in 2014, as has already been said, and it has to be acknowledged that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been following up on the implementation of the Action Plan for the resolution of this matter and has been briefed by Members. The fact is, as it is said, that the Republic of Slovenia must implement this judgment. However, it should be noted that, according to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, this judgment does not work directly and therefore it is necessary to adopt an appropriate law which will allow payment to foreign savers. This proposal for a law on the way the judgment is executed follows the judgment itself and is optimal in the given situations in which the Republic of Slovenia is located, as I have already mentioned. I would also like to touch myself on the fact that this matter with foreign currency savers is not as simple as it may seem at the first moment, the following. I will use the words and position of a prominent member of the European Court of Human Rights of Boštjan M. Zupančič. It is true that he did not participate in this process, but his position is very important. First of all, he says that the matter is very complicated and the problem is emerging at three levels. The simplest is that these savers had savings books in the Ljubljana Bank and it is therefore perfectly logical that the Ljubljana Bank is also their debtor. So it stands to reason that this is only a civil law relationship and the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights has resolved this matter along this line. More interestingly, the third question, as far as he is concerned, is a more successful one. For the European Court of Human Rights has taken a very clear view that, in previous decisions on the same issue, this has also been followed in some way. If I may say so: in the opinion of the European Court of Justice, a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, Professor of Constitutional Law of the Netherlands, who was also involved in this case in Yugoslav territory, has done research on where this money went. First of all, he tried to figure out where that money went. Unfortunately, it didn't work. In this context, the position of Judge Nussberger, who issued a separate opinion, can also be noted and found that most likely this money was not present at the time of the collapse of the financial system of the former State. These are also the circumstances which I consider relevant and only confirm the fact that the case with foreign currency savers is not uniform. As already mentioned, there are still open claims of the then Ljubljana Bank to the commissioners, including in the Republic of Croatia. I am sure that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also follow the part of this judgment, which somehow obliges all emerging countries to continue their activities in the area of the resolution of the hereditary issue. I hope, myself, that these matters will close in a relatively timely time and that we do not keep busy with past events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u23	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is final and enforceable and the Republic of Slovenia commits to its enforcement. Now, whether we are satisfied here or not, the judgments of the courts must of course be respected. The adoption of the law will represent financial consequences far from triviality, far from neglect and go to EUR 385 million. As representatives of the Ministry of Finance have assured us, the bulk of these funds are already included in public debt or in the preparation of budgets for the next two years. However, an additional 128 million should be provided during the period of implementation, i.e. 2016 and 2017. I firmly believe that the legitimate thinking of many of you that such an amount may also be a pressure on the rights of the most disadvantaged is that of the recipients of compensation for the unemployed, the recipients of social transfers, not least the pensioners. However, I think that this country is also able, when implementing the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, to take proper care of its most vulnerable target groups and must never ask itself, whether we are going to pay for it, whether we are going to be credible towards Europe and, on the other hand, not to guarantee the right of those who are needed for the assistance of the state, because they cannot afford it. Perhaps this matter, the explanation of the implementing law states that at least 30 public servants will have to be employed for this purpose. For me and for us, in Desus, this is a relatively large amount or a large number of extras needed to carry out these tasks. If that is the case, I am convinced that these 30 public servants will be able to be provided within the workforce either by the Ministry of Finance or by the Financial Administration, or by the wider public or public administration sector, and there will be no need for additional costs in this area. On conclusion, of course, the responsibility, why this matter took so long, why does it have a white beard for so long, or a gray beard for so long, if you will. Of course, it is necessary to know that the very implementation of this regulation, the adoption of this law, is not the fault of this government; unfortunately, this government is at this time and this space that this judgment, which was passed last July, must be implemented. In the Desus Group and also in the Desus party, we never ran away from the responsibility of calling those who are objectively and subjectively responsible for any matter or, if you wish to bring before a court, at the hands of justice those who have sinned in their actions. It is also absolutely necessary to call to account those who have, I will say, cooked a 385-million-dollar hole in this area, but we are convinced that the subject of this implementing law is not that we call to account in this place, that we define and question the matter here, but that we can carry it in parallel and effectively. In any case, it is more effective than we have asked before the time limit or tried to get some others responsible in other areas. I am confident that Slovenia will prove itself to be the right country, that it will respect the legal judgment and that people who have not seen these foreign exchange deposits can raise them in the next two years. Once again, however, the socio-economic situation of the most vulnerable target groups must not be called into question, and Desus here will remain steadfast and keep a close eye on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u25	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that again. Here we propose a supplement to Article 1, which reads: "This law also defines the responsibility of the holders of public functions and public authorities in the conduct or omissions of conduct which has caused the burden of paying off the outstanding foreign exchange deposits of the depositors of the Ljubljanska banka, d.d., to fall on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers." The explanation makes it clear that this covers all three stages in which the result has been achieved, which will now take the form of almost EUR 400 million of additional costs, on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers in record time. All of them. But, of course, it's not the only damage that's caused here. In material terms, the material damage caused by these decisions resulted from the fact that the Slovenian banks had been prevented for decades from operating properly in the environment and where they had high reputations. Now 10,000, 600 thousand depositors in these banks in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina testify that these were the banks that were there, as they call it, the credibility and anchor, and converted into the commercial damage that occurred – now that we are calculating into the commercial damage that occurred, there has been several attempts in the media to make this calculation by experts – the Slovenian commercial banking system has lost billions of euros. Billions of euros due to the loss of two of the most promising markets for the operation of Slovenian banks. Where'd the money go? As it is said, for the Bank of Ljubljana, Zagreb, which was a separate legal entity, was involved in Croatian legislation with all the guarantees that the Republic of Croatia had given to its banks and was not a branch or daughter of the Ljubljana Bank until 1989. This bank accepted the role of savers, legal and natural persons, and also borrowed this money from Croatian companies. Because Ljubljana Bank of Zagreb has about the same amount as it owes to savers, including claims on Croatian companies, almost EUR 10 million is exactly equal. So this money was put into the Croatian economy, most of it. But apparently, given the judgment previously cited by the same court, where the Ljubljana Bank lost against one of the Croatian companies, this money will not be seen. At the very least, what the Slovenian State and the judiciary should represent when defending the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in a court of law should be a proportionality in order to arrive at these decisions at about the same time, but not that Slovenia will now pay all or pay Slovenia's taxpayers in record time, and these claims will not. If the bank was ours, then ours are also debts, not just debts. Here it agrees that the claims are Slovenian or that the debts are Slovenian and that the claims to Croatian companies do not exist. According to the judgment of the same court which imposed this implementing law on us, obviously not. But here is a great responsibility for those who defended Slovenian interests in court. I said before, compare the first and second judgment and you will see the difference as night and day. The original sin, however, was in strong fear of those who gave the political directive to turn independent legal persons, in this case the Ljubljana Bank, which existed in other republics, into a branch, was a political directive, in the leadership of the then Ljubljana Bank, to resist, to make an economic laboratory, whether it pays off or not, this laboratory showed that it was not worth it, that Yugoslavia was cracking through the seams, that it would unnecessarily assume certain obligations that could be very high, but the management of the Ljubljana Bank had then listened to the policy directive despite this laboratory. And the person who signed this lab allegedly committed suicide or fell off the balcony. In great fear that the memories were still fresh, and perhaps there were several more documents that would not be discussed too much, then this amendment of the Constitutional Law to implement the basic constitutional charter was adopted. In this book is the original version, and in this version, which was adopted almost exactly 21 years ago or established on 27 June 1994, where, in addition to bypassing these obligations and in particular the question of liability without thinking about how much this will cost Slovenian taxpayers, the key article, which previously linked any solidarity responsibility of Slovenia to claims from other parts of the former country to an agreement on succession, has changed. On 25 June 1991, we took a decision saying that Slovenia would pay all that Yugoslav debt, because the money was spent on us and also a proportionate debt, an unsettled debt, is said to be where we shared a guarantee, but on the basis of inheritance agreements, with which Slovenia will also receive claims or shares in common assets. By June 1994, of course, Slovenia paid nothing because there was no agreement and it was clear that insistence on such a position was a pressure on other stakeholders and that it would be easier to reach an agreement if no one unilaterally assumed obligations. Members are then practically under duress here, without any serious explanation being given to the Slovenian public, adopted this amendment and, after this new constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter, this responsibility is no longer bound or the taking of these obligations to the regions of the former Yugoslavia is no longer bound by the successor agreement, but this has been deleted. Slovenia then signed the agreement itself with foreign creditors, where it took over the entire allocated debt under this NFS, according to the new 1988 financial agreement, while at the same time almost 54% of the outstanding Yugoslav debt. Not 16%, as our share of GDP at the time, or almost 17%, or 8% of us were residents, or 30% of Slovenia's share in the external trade of the former country, but almost 54%. At the same time, there were strong machinations, so-called, then this coin was even born, the Slovenian udbomafija with the purchase of these Yugoslav debts, whose price is on the grey market, after Slovenia had separately signed this agreement with foreign creditors, which allowed this change of the constitutional law to leap, and previously Yugoslav debt was sold there for 20 cents per dollar. The Slovenian banks, which were then in recovery, lost a lot of millions here, but some companies there profited in the replacement, which were counted in the so-called Safti Circle, today it's KB1909 and I don't know what else. If you look at the names that played at this time in the Bank of Slovenia, in the Ljubljana Bank, in these institutions, we come up with the same names, which have also fostered this so-called financial integration of Yugoslavia, that secession will not be possible, or that have finally drilled this last bank hole. I'm not going to list these names and names right now, but there's been a lot of writing about this, and it's no problem to reconstruct these things. Now I see that some here with very large eyes are listening, let me say that I am also saying this to this room probably for the 50th time, in the 20th year we have constantly warned about this. When I was in the government in 1994, we as the only party opposed these changes, which is why Depal village later happened. It is no coincidence that this constitutional law was amended for several months, or as soon as it was technically possible, after our client was expelled from the government at that time. Well, today we have an account on the table; part of this account, in fact, a small part of this account, because much of the material and financial consequences can be counted as commercial damage that has occurred in Slovenian banks, because in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina it has not worked at all, and many Slovenian companies, where this poor image, which has worked in the Slovenian economy all this time in both republics, probably many of you have met this problem directly – no such business as it would have been. Not for a long time. Then a little forgot, but for the first ten years, it was a huge problem. All because of this, he's running from responsibility. Those who proposed, say Minister Gaspari, who was then a finance minister and signed this amendment of the constitutional law, is a financier, was the vice-governor of the Yugoslav National Bank when this new financial agreement with foreign creditors was actually drafted when that Serbian invasion into the Yugoslav monetary system, when these so-called integrations occurred, was a change in the status of independent banks in the branch, and he is an amateur. They knew what the consequences would be for Slovenian trade, for Slovenian companies and, above all, for the Slovenian banking system in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, if accepted. They knew that the damage would be greater than what would eventually come from the direct account that we see, and we have this today, I'll say, here. Yet, they suggested this because there was a strong fear that all of this would come on the day. He was so scared. This was 1994 when the memories were still fresh, and many Witnesses were still alive, and that was why the secret session was held there. Now I see that all of this has been forgotten. This is where the colleague spoke, and it is necessary to connect with Serbia because they have the same problem. Yes, of course only Slovenia and Serbia have this problem because others have not done so. Croatian banks also had exhibitions or banks in other republics, but they left them as a separate legal entity. And also the Bosnians. Why don't they have these problems? Because they did not change their status because they did not participate in this game of key people who understood what the economy was, they had to be recognised, and they wanted to make it difficult or they wanted to preserve Yugoslavia. I'm sure the United Left will give them credit because we've heard before that taking away foreign savers is stealing, and stealing from our own is a nationalisation, and that was not the place. So it is said that such an action will be easily hailed. [[…]] Well, and if you want more, I will say something concrete or the last concrete argument that went here in the background of a political game you probably have all heard or read that the money that the Croatian savers had in particular at the Ljubljana Bank had for all was not so locked up; for ten thousand it was, but Slaven Letica said publicly that he had asked Milan Kučan, and he got the role back paid. [[…]] Just like Budimir Lončar – 200,000 marks. They weren't all in the same position. These are two publicly-known cases, probably dozens more, because this was done along this political line, and Milan Kučan was neither the chief of administration nor the head of the supervisory board nor the Ljubljana Bank d. d., nor the New Ljubljana Bank d. d. I think that, however, with this account, which is now very concrete, which has come, these people should ask for a little responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u27	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. I already warned the President of the National Assembly at the College that this would happen, which is what we have today at the meeting. This is not so much to ask ourselves what and how and how we will implement this law, but, above all, that the matter will go in the direction of finding out who is actually guilty. Right from the beginning, to understand that there will be no big debates and dilemmas about it, I don’t mind, far from it! Let them be discovered. But I'm afraid in the way you suggested, of course, things won't hold up anymore. For the first time, 20 years after what happened, I think from a legal point of view – otherwise we do not have the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service on these amendments, whether they are legal or not – I don't know how we're going to look back for so many years, and we're going to read and prove to someone whether it's really his fault or whether we can even carry out the procedures. That's the first problem. So I wonder what's the point of that. Secondly, one is the identification of a criminal offence and the other is the identification of political responsibility. Political responsibility is known for what instruments are used in the National Assembly or in politics. We have investigative committees, but above all we need to come up with names and surnames and serious arguments and papers. Today, I have listened to Member Janez Janša, here with all of you, as he did a film story that took place in 1994. He did not forget to give all the beautiful adjectives how the National Assembly was sitting at an emergency meeting at night, the police kept short so that everything would work even more theatrically. [[…]] But he did not forget, but he was so fair, of course, that he did not say that he was in the government at the time, and they then stepped out of the government, even though he knew it was wrong, and even though he knew that the bill would be issued 20 years later. Today, in this House, there are only two sittings, or at this moment also these two no longer, Mr Battelli and Mr Janez Janša, who went both out, because I think it would be nice to sit here and follow this session, since they are the only ones from that period who know what was really going on, for all of us the cellar is important, because we only have records in the basement, who really said what and who didn't, and how long they are, and how someone voted. Besides, let me say something else, something that seems very important to me. Indeed, we will once again be able to decide seriously whether we will respect the European Court of Human Rights – and today we have a law before us to talk about how to implement a solution based on a decision of the European Court of Justice. On the other hand, because of me at any time – because there is no rush to do so and the Government has proposed an urgent procedure, because we really do not need any urgent procedure to determine political responsibility – so that everyone else can also get to know the facts that someone is thinking about today with two red books of the constitution – one is red, one is blue – metal out and we cannot even check them to see if they are holding what they are not holding. First of all, it's not that I don't believe that we're not going to get along the wrong way, but, you know, every truth in its own way interprets what really happened at the time. That's why the story can always have two ends. Besides, there's something else I need to know that's very important to me. When we discussed here the proposal for a payment scheme for deleted, a similar amendment for responsibility, the political responsibility of the one who cooked the payment in Slovenia of more than ten thousand deleted, there was no proposal for an amendment on this side to establish political responsibility. Who cooked them? Interesting, isn't it? You are interested in only one salary and that is those who interest you; where you see that they will be finely saved in terms of collecting political points. In fact, why am I bringing this up? Not because I'd divorce these two marriages. No! No! In both cases, the European Court of Human Rights imposes responsibility and has ruled on who must bear these consequences. Now we must ask ourselves whether in this country, we will adopt laws in Parliament that will have such vats for some decisions and for others different vats. For some we will identify political responsibility and for others we will not identify political responsibility. I don't have any Godfathers, far from it. but I'm afraid we didn't hear very well who imposed this punishment on us and why we're treating it in an emergency today. European Court of Human Rights! Everything else, interpretations, what happened, what didn't happen, we had 20 years to prove. Why didn't you open this story before and warn me? We could've made an investigator sooner. In all mandates, the SDS Party shall be present here. You've never opened that question. Today, when he came in and we said, in a vehement manner, there came an account for what we had warned him would happen. Please, I don't think today is the time for this kind of communication. And don't think of us all as crazy because it really doesn't take us anywhere anymore. The Government's proposal, prepared by the working group, is to pay in this way what we have to do. However, it is time to identify with arguments, facts and evidence, because today, by the way, I have not heard a single name, a last name, who is to blame, except who is to blame — is to order — to pay something off. I heard three names: "Doggie, Potter, and one more, I didn't even remember. That's all I've heard; all the rest, some groups, cheers -- and we're back where it's said, so little on average we're going to throw a little, who's guilty again and who's not, and who's been conspiring since the '80s that's been dragging on. In the '80s. In 1980, I was in the eighth grade of elementary school. Don't joke! I don't know anything about what happened back then. But I do know that the only thing he can prove in court is what he can prove, and the plaintiffs have proven, and we must correct these rights. I hope that this will cost as little Slovenia as possible, not as much as possible. I hope so. But if we work like this, it won't work. It seems that in any way you are trying to bring a story through the side door – otherwise I have nothing against it personally, it is time, and if there is room in Parliament to discover political responsibilities, certainly, but use other instruments: the commission of inquiry, introduce the law, tell in what way, and, if possible, let it be legal without us taking anything back, which will later fall on the ECHR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u30	Dear President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law on the way in which the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights is implemented in case number 60642/08, which we have before us, is something that I call the price of stepping down from the power of the former single-party system. Nothing was going on like that, ad hoc, but everything was happening, I can say, programmed. I believe that Mr Janez Janša presented the story of the role of savers of the then Ljubljana Bank today. He also presented the period in which it came into existence, when it came into existence, and what consequences it had. It should be remembered that this was not just the story of the status transformation of these two branches, it was also the story of the establishment of numerous bypass companies abroad, where some of our companies had a whole range of branches, the outflow of this money for so-called, later after the transformation of the mother, not just the daughters, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. All of this resulted in this hole even in the early 1990s when we discovered the first bank hole. I also agree that we are all aware together that the judgment is piloted, that "ergo omnes" is valid and that we need to find some of the most favourable solutions for Slovenia. However, I am very concerned that some colleagues and colleagues are somehow reserved to investigate the responsibility of the people who have done this and have been guilty of it. Look, every day, when you turn on television, you have a lot of shows about some accidents that happen, especially, like air accidents. Those who investigate such an accident are not meant to save the injured and most tragically die, but that this would never happen again to determine whether it was a systemic error or a human factor. Look, this is our plane, which is not called boeing, which is not called airbus, but called Slovenian banks, it's been up for the third time. The last time he collapsed, this damage, which we cannot estimate through human lives or victims or injuries, can be estimated through money, through losses, through write-offs and, consequently, through the lives of people who will live worse, both pensioners, young people and even those who are fully employed at that time. It also means a future for this country. And that some of the arguments presented by Mr Janez Janša speak about the fact that it is again a story where we take you, colleagues and colleagues, to a side street, of course, is completely irresponsible. I'm always on the sidelines that this responsibility needs to be revealed. This responsibility has great consequences. This is the responsibility of our transition story, and this is also the story of our transition. In my opinion, it has been programmed; in my opinion, it has followed exactly a certain scenario and with a whole range of people who are among the richest Slovenians today, our citizens and citizens must ask themselves, over and over again, why these people who were once the same to us are the richest today. Who helped them? Did they come to this property because of their abilities, their entrepreneurial abilities, or their actions, or did they come to this because they were on the side of some people who were in this transition, can I say, somehow programmed? This story is also one of the stories, I say, of Slovenian transitions. And the identification of a planned merger with the authority of the then policy is, we can say, very simple – we know which party led this nation for 45 years in that Yugoslav regime, who were the bearers of the highest political functions. In fact, it's a very simple story. So let's not inherit from those who say we're all the same, we're all the same. We're not all as guilty! Some of them had a great interest in this story, which, at the end of the year, did not last show itself in 2004, when this failed transition had already succeeded through Forum 21 – we are the ones who are the richest, we are the winners of the transition This Forum with all the participants, those who were yesterday the same as us and who have become, in a few years, we can say, carriers or the richest Slovenians, so it turned out exactly in one political society of these people. [[…]] This system is still in possession today. It is therefore important for me to stress this before we continue today's session before we continue to discuss the amendments that we have prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is important that we may also discuss whether we will ever investigate or will always wave, repeat, respected colleagues and colleagues, the same mistakes and move on. So, let's not go back, let's move on. Do you think this policy is in place? It's not personal for me. We need to be aware of what these mistakes were, who was responsible for these mistakes, I can say, programmed, and did he ever answer for this in his life? We have a whole series of actions in this new country that we discover and never find the culprit. It is constantly being socialised by this guilty, respected colleague and colleague. Serious legal states, where there is a rule of law, are always individualised. This is the difference between why the rule of law does not work in this way with us. Now is the time, now is the last time, that we also begin to discover these mistakes of the past: who, why, when, at what time, and what interest. I think the answers are opening. The answers are open to us, and I can tell you, at least at first glance, we already know them. I therefore suggest that you, too, consider an investigation and also support the amendments to be tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u31	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I intended to start the debate with specific questions concerning the amendment and the proposed law, but in view of the previous debaters, in particular something from the SMC party and from the Allied Party Alenka Bratušek, I would also like to discuss some of the issues. We have heard, let us not deal with past events but past events have a financial impact on taxpayers today and tomorrow. [[…]] That is why we must also deal with the past. Now, we do not deal with the past when there are no financial consequences. Someone has expressed the term: SDS on the average of a few swords See, we are not throwing anything on average, but on the table in the National Assembly we have a law based on the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which will cost at least 385 million Slovenian taxpayers, and some Members and Members say that the SDS throws everything together a little on average Dear, we are talking about about about about four hundred million. [[…]] [[…]] Four million euros to go elsewhere instead of going to public education, the public health system. After five billion euros, when we have already saved taxpayers, I would say, two of the largest system banks NLB, NKBM, Abanko We have now received yet another account for events and for decisions taken about twenty years ago. For me, I would say it is a total surprise that some today, both between Members and Members, but above all I would say, the comments of events from one year ago when the European Court of Human Rights gave this judgment to Slovenia to express their view of how surprised they are about this decision. They're so surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, look, I have not been prevented in person for a number of reasons, for which we will have to be aware in Slovenia that property rights are protected in Europe. And here it was exclusively about property rights and property rights is one of the foundations of legal acts in Europe. Only in Slovenia is ownership right so and so; some would have it, some would not have it. On the other hand, why wasn't there a surprise? This is because in these 20 years, when this dispute arose, some individuals had access to these funds, which were in the Ljubljana Bank of Zagreb or the Ljubljana Bank of Sarajevo, and these are probably all the grounds on which the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled. Last but not least, a number of experts warned before the time that Slovenia's big mistake was to go through the procedures of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank on the issue of succession. A number of experts have pointed out that this is not a question of inheritance and that Slovenia should solve this matter differently. Some even said that it was one of the biggest mistakes in the history of Slovenia. We also know, at least from the media, that there were a number of proposals at the time to pay off these savers of the Ljubljana Bank. But no! Some individuals insisted that this is a matter of Slovenian heritage and we have an account on the table today. But they do not have an account on the table those who cooked or caused the matter, but again, as in Slovenia, it is customary not to take responsibility, but to say that everything goes under the burden of taxpayers. I think that we should also resolve here the question of whether the fact that the proposal at the then government or the Ministry of Finance and also in the administrations of the New Ljubljana Bank is true, that Croatia's policy also agreed that one part of these savers could be paid, but Slovenia's responsibility, or those who took responsibility in Slovenia, did not agree. We can read, say, an interesting interview by Bož Dimnik, who then expressed that in certain important circles in Slovenia he had received such a green light from Tuđman and from Mesić that this matter was paid, but in Slovenia no one wanted to do so. Today we have an account of about EUR 400 million on the table, and on the other hand I am sure that Slovenia has done a great deal of business damage. We all know that as a result of these events, Nova Ljubljanska Banka did not have to operate in Croatia, Ljubljana Bank was then one of the regional players in banking, and I am convinced that if we allow the existence of the New Ljubljana Bank and the operation of the New Ljubljana Bank in Croatia, this bank could become one of the largest banks in South-Eastern Europe. Finally, due to all these events, a number of Slovenian companies did not have access to business in Croatia. A key reason why not – pay the savers of the Ljubljana Bank and things will change. This was mainly the case in the years when the Slovenian economy was still very healthy. Croatia then ended the war and many of their good companies were then, I would say, already because of a war that lasted for many years, in a significantly worse condition than Slovenian companies. Slovenian companies at the time, if they wanted to make one breakthrough, one development, could take over a number of well-being companies in Croatia and today, after these 20 years, the matter happened the other way around. The compass, d. d., one of the most important companies in the field of tourism, is in Croatian ownership. Mercator, d. d., the leading Slovenian trading company is owned by Croatia. Cereal, d. d., is in Croatian possession. A lot of things Croatia is now taking over in Slovenia. Croatian companies take over Slovenian companies. This account we have today, EUR 400 million, is significantly higher than anyone can imagine. For all this, we have also tabled an amendment to this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this amendment says to find responsibility and to establish responsibility for the situation: why certain proposals were not adopted at the time, and especially whether those who represented Slovenia in this legal process have done everything they should have done. However, no such amendment has been adopted on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy by the SMC, Desus and SD. You didn't tell me any valid reason why you didn't support it. On the one hand, you say you have no bots, on the other hand you do not support the amendment. You have the opportunity to support this amendment in today's session. I am sure that this amendment will not affect the content of the law alone, but it will have a bearing, above all, on something to determine the responsibility of who is also responsible for this situation. But unfortunately, in Slovenia the word responsibility is very rarely or almost never used. However, it is never used when there are various banking transactions and bank transactions in the game. This has already been seen in the resolution of the banking system itself, this has been seen exclusively in this national assembly, both in the previous mandate and in the current mandate, when the issue of banking and the responsibility is that the Slovenian Democratic Party exclusively requires or extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, or an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, or any proposal for a law that would reveal this responsibility or would also be found. However, both in the previous term and in the current term of office, the coalition is vehemently rejecting all these proposals that we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party. So, the key issue is why it's not a surprise to me that this decision is a property right. And property rights in Europe are protected. Last but not least, Slovenia pays a very expensive bill for the consequences of 1945, 1946, 1947, when the current power on a large amount of looting of private property and we are paying it again today through denationalisation procedures. Slovenia's denationalisation will exceed more than €4 billion. And, respected, respected, more than 80% of all revenues from sales of Slovenian companies are intended for denationalisation. Those who reject privatisation today and ask why You are the successors of those parties who have caused this injustice in Slovenia, or the parties that somehow consider the heroes of those who have done these things in those years. [[…]] In the same law that we have on the table today, the most negative thing for me is that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy could not explain one thing. Is the figure we are talking about today EUR 385 million final? After the debates, I was able to interpret that it did not provide a 100 per cent guarantee that this figure of EUR 385 million was also final. I would suggest, given that today's plenary session is not just a representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that you say again, explain whether this number is final or not or when this Council of Ministers will be the Council that will decide whether this law is appropriate or not and when Slovenia will finally know what is the last bill that Slovenian taxpayers will pay for these errors that have been made. The key question is probably whether the Council of Ministers will confirm the interest rate proposed here. On the other hand, I doubt whether there is a 100% assurance that if the State of Slovenia submits this law within one year, as well as the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, Slovenia will not have to pay for the non-profit damage or that the injured party will not have to file any action for the non-profit damage that has occurred with these funds. For in those two cases, Ališić and this, they also suffered an intangible damage of EUR 4 000. And in the event that all these savers could now, under such or other conditions, for such or other reasons, be able to invest these non-profit damages, what this would actually mean for Slovenian taxpayers. The question, of course, why, for one year, Slovenia could not reach one final agreement with Europe or with the Council of Ministers or with the party that is injured here, whether this interest rate is economically acceptable to the injured or not. Last but not least, as I have already said on the Committee, there are no changes to this proposal for a law that was presented for the first time in the State Assembly at the closed session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on European Affairs. At least the key ones to me, such as: is this number 385 million complete with interest rates. And of course, what is involved with the non-profit damage or damage claim caused by non-profit damage — this means that these savers or savers have been unable to use their assets for more than 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? Please sign up. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! In fact, there is only one reason why we are here today talking about a law that means that an account of EUR 400 million is being set up for all people in Slovenia. This reason was that it was the intention of Slovenian independence to make it uncomfortable for grass to fall, as was said at the time. And what happened? At that time, Slovenian communist leadership with Mr Kučan led by the Serbian communist leadership with Milosevic led, and therefore these two republics were the only ones in the former Yugoslavia to put in place the principle that, until then, they had become independent units, independent legal entities of banks, their branches; the Belgrade Bank for Serbia and the Ljubljana Bank for Slovenia. What did this mean in practice? Until that moment, almost immediately before the independence, when these hands actually came out, the National Bank of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen was responsible for debts, for applications, for all in relation to the operation of the Zagreb unit of the Ljubljana Bank. Since the moment when it was intended to prevent itself from being sabotaged by domestic, Slovenian independence, the responsibility has therefore shifted to Slovenia. And today it is also seen in numbers such as this responsibility, about EUR 400 million, if we do not count another billion in economic damage, because we have been branded in Croatia for many years as someone who wants something bad to exploit them and everything else we have had the chance to listen to in recent years. The responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, lies with these two leaders: the communist leadership in Slovenia and the communist leadership in Serbia and the communist leadership in Slovenia together with their elbows in the then Ljubljana Bank and their troops elsewhere in Yugoslavia, who obediently performed the party task. Therefore, if there is some first-class disdain for not saying anything worse, and it is also fundamentally contrary to the democratic principles of any Parliament, that in such a debate the thesis should not appear 'we must not look back'. Where have we heard this thesis, ladies and gentlemen? Yes, of course, in the former, former authorities! So we can say that this is the red thread of Slovenian socialism. In fact, the law before us is actually a great example of socialism in practice, for all those who still love socialism today. Why? Because he says don't look back because he's afraid to die. But if you ask the ordinary citizen what is the most lacking in Slovenia, that is precisely what – responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! Responsibility. On behalf of everyone in this country, you will harm every child if you adopt this law for 200 euros; each family, say, four members for 800, so free after calculation. But not you personally, the one who made this change on purpose at the time, consciously, because he wanted to prevent the creation of a state of his own, to prevent it, but who really is responsible, politically, and otherwise should be. But at least it's politically certain today, even if someone says the matter is out of date. That is why this amendment is still justified to show this glimmer of socialism in the right light. For this moment, ladies and gentlemen, a huge hand with a red star will reach into your pocket and draw 200 euros out of your pocket, and it will take 200 euros away from your child and add them to all the 16,000 euros that have already been pulled out of your pocket in the same way in the past. That's how socialism really works. He can work beautifully with other people's money, but he can't create his own money, and that's a fundamental problem. In this case, when we are talking about the independence of Slovenia, we are not talking about it. I can bring the papers, you won't believe what they said at the time. "Some dream of independent Slovenia, but we will never let them do this because we know that our only country is Yugoslavia." Signed Milan Kučan. If you don't know this, just a few months before the independence, believe it or not, the cover of the Gorenjski Vote when it was a speech to the ironworks in Jesenica. Well, it is therefore clear why it has tried with all means, including by amending the Constitution, amending the constitutional law specifically, to prevent this from being discussed at any time in public, because then the question of responsibility would be raised. Suddenly, this bluffing would be over, and who is responsible for nothing. But there would be numbers and it would be very clear why and who is to blame for living worse than we could have lived in this loving country. Why we were twice before Poland, but today Poland is ahead of us, by the real purchasing power of an individual, by the quality of life, by the welfare of every citizen. This is the fundamental reason that we have never been able to say that once and for all socialism must end. By the way, when we talk about socialism, this law is a perfect example, and this whole story, another socialist principle. 'Cause what's going on? We will be charged with making communist leaders amounting to 400 million euros. But at the same time, we're not getting those debts, the money they have, the debt they have there. And that's not what this story takes into account. You know, this is in practice exactly the socialist principle for those of us who are so old that we still remember socialism; what is mine is yours, and what is yours, and I don't care or should not be interested in anything. It's about that kind of thing. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, this law is thus in some way transparent for the whole story of Slovenia and why we are where we really are. If this law needs anything, it has laid down that responsibility should also be discussed and defined very precisely, because in this case nothing needs to be found, nothing needs to be found, nothing needs to be explored, it is known exactly who has agreed, it is known exactly who has made such statements, it is clear which two leaders of the Communist parties of Slovenia and Serbia have agreed on this story at the time, and it is known exactly who has given the task, and it is known who has done it in the banks. Why would we need anything to explore? It is only necessary to say this clearly once and for all in the space which is intended for this purpose, and this is the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. The same Parliament, which, by the way, had never been able to say, unlike the Constitutional Court, that the fundamental problem of the previous regime was that it was criminal that one was a lie itself. The Constitutional Court has managed this power, Parliament to this day never, you can go check if you don't believe. It is very sad that, by the way, Slovenia is the only country, as far as I know, of former real socialism, where it is unfortunately still so. To this day. But when the bills are out, then you can choose, taxpayers, pay. And once a bank hole is 8 billion What kind of a bank hole? [[…]] At the time of his independence, he channeled himself mass abroad to all possible safties, and I don't know where else, as it was then said, but to some exhibitions of banks, far across the meadow, Germany and elsewhere. Accurately known about those who had little insight into the situation as to how it worked. There was a mountain of money over there, when the system made it possible, and of course that money is not there today. Then the rest was added to the ownership, which took place all the time, but not in a transparent way. Unfortunately, because it is not as political science learning, everything depends only on the law, as in Slovenia many times people naively think. A maximum of one third depends on the law and two thirds depends on the law implementing it. Because there is a need to establish principles that are in force in the normal legal order and also the principle of liability. Today, we are just talking about the responsibility that is clear in this case, is obvious and is only about whether we recognize this by our own conduct with the adoption of this amendment and thus lay one foundation for building this country differently, better, richer and more friendly for all its inhabitants and residents, or whether it will be left to fall under the table again and the responsibility will continue in the old way. But then, ladies and gentlemen, don't be surprised if, according to the latest surveys, there are those countries that we all looked at on the day of independence: Latvia, Estonia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and I can list them further. These are the countries we once ran, some for twice, some for three times, by quality of life, by purchasing power, by all other economic indicators. Today, these countries are ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason is alone, that huge hand with the red star, always reaching into his pocket after twenty years and putting out old bills and pulling money out of your pocket and taking him somewhere unknown. Exactly certain because of certain things, but we're all poorer because of it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is socialism in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am a little surprised that the government representatives are so defensive that they do not answer the debates of Members. Before our President had a very reasoned debate, he said a series of facts related to the process of creating this obligation, this today's obligation of the Republic of Slovenia, but none of the government's teams felt that it was necessary or self-evident to respond to this question whether the facts associated with this process of creation were true or not. I know that Mr Dragonja is very well aware of these things, because in 1994-1997, perhaps a year earlier or later, he was Minister of Economy in the Republic of Slovenia, and he was later Minister. However, before and after the ministerial function, Lek was the director of one of the major pharmaceutical companies. So, with obligations, difficulties in the business of Slovenian companies in neighbouring markets, which are related to this, he was probably very well aware; as manager, as director of an influential company in Slovenia, good branding and also as minister. I am surprised that government representatives find neither motive nor argument, nor anything to answer these discussions, whether such decisions were taken during these periods or not, before and after independence. This seems to me to be the key to today's debate. And what we are proposing is the answer to what we are now asking. Also, Mr President, it is all too often that the Government comes to sit down at the meeting that we have in the National Assembly. I think it's too much disrespect for the National Assembly. Here before, I think Member Verbič of the SMC spoke about Slovenia having an unfortunate hand in the selection of personnel. What we are proposing is actually the answer to this thesis of Slovenia's unfortunate hand. Whether they were unhappyly elected to the National Assembly, whether they were unhappy in doing so or anything; but what Mr Verbič said is an important question. I can see that some, either consciously or subconsciously, are aware of it in the largest government party. However, the problem is when a concrete proposal comes in for this unfortunate hand and is trying to discredit it in every way. My colleague Möderndorfer spoke earlier about the need to establish an investigative commission to investigate this part of the bank hole or this part of the budget hole, I will say otherwise. When we propose an investigative commission that is supposed to deal with a bank hole, they object, they give no signatures, they obstruct when it is established, they say it will be none of it. And here we are today in the role of simply asking us to do so. I think that we should be very serious about these things, because, if memory does not deceive me, Slovenia is the only state of the former Yugoslavia, which is a permanent payer of all interstate disputes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. The only one who's obliged to pay any debt. We are not in Slovenia in the bloodiest way, but in the gravest way, Slovenia is the only one paying alleged injustices or injustices to some so-called eraseds. No country pays for killings, not for slaughters, not for victims, not for mental pain, not for the loss of fathers, not for the lack of knowledge of any act that took place in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, not for a bank hole. No one pays for this, Slovenia pays deleted, Slovenia pays the bank hole, Slovenia pays the border between the two countries – probably when this judgment of arbitration comes. So, before that, the President said that she had received and assumed a disproportionately large debt in relation to either the population or liabilities, and so on. This Slovenia has the countries of the former Yugoslavia or the citizens of the former Yugoslav republics, now independent countries, simply for their own wallet. We pay for everything. If it was that some were not entered into the record, the greatest injustice that could have happened to any citizen in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, this is the worst financial injustice, then something with those who led this country in these fateful years is something gravely wrong – when these things should have been regulated – and also something seriously wrong, as Mr Verbič said, with those who represented this country at home and abroad. Therefore, we also pay all these disproportionate financial and other costs. As regards the discussions of fellow Members, it would also be extremely good to operate on facts, actions and documents. One of these, or one of the key to the debate today, is written between the 88th and 95th pages of this blue book, which is called the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is this law, and it contains all that we need to discuss at this point in the agenda. It tells us, when it was adopted, who proposed it at the time knows who was then the holder of the executive authority, who was the chairman of the protocol authority, and who voted, it is likely that this is verified in the archives of the National Assembly. It is also likely that the meeting was closed or not closed because it was documented and so on. But when he doesn't want to operate on facts, when he wants to move things to the field of something that's kind of softening, discrediting, then he's operating on unofficial and informal and inaccurate data. I expect government representatives to make clear whether this amendment is appropriate or not follows the concept of responsibility. The government, in particular the Mira Cerar coalition, has put a great deal on legal standards, on the rule of law, on responsibility, on ethics in politics. This is a fundamental test of what is called the responsibility of the rule of law and also of ethics that everyone for what he has done in this country will also take responsibility for political decision and for any other action. I propose that before any way we continue the debate, we await the Government's response, in particular whether they support the amendments that we have tabled and relate solely to ensuring the responsibility of those who are this burden, which is now the responsibility of those who did not participate in it, we will pay in one way or another, and we must also decide on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, Secretary of State, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We did not intend to come to the meeting to be listeners, but in order to be able to explain all the aspects that the proposer, the Government, and within the Government, the expert team of the Ministry of Finance, which worked on this, followed when it formulated a proposal for a legal project. Today's discussion is taking place in a certain part of this. At the outset, I said that the aim of the law is to try or to determine how the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights should be carried out. In this context, a proposal is put forward for solutions that are proposed in the legislative provisions and which have been the subject of discussion in the home work body. In fact, today's policy shows the complexity of this issue on the one hand and also points to the broader aspects of the transition that took place in Slovenia, one of which was the breakup of Yugoslavia, and through the breakup of Yugoslavia, a series of unresolved issues that emerged between the former republics and the provinces that were part of this federation. I agree with the discussers that the judgment is inconvenient for Slovenia. The judgment follows a certain logic. This logic, in fact, puts human rights at the forefront, property protection, what has been said in the discussions, and puts into second place the successful issues that successor countries have tried to solve virtually everything since the collapse of the former country. Interestingly, as regards the issue of foreign exchange deposits, the agreement on matters of succession, this so-called Vienna International Treaty of 2001 did not regulate the issue of foreign exchange deposits. It is said that even more than ten years after the breakup of Yugoslavia, there was no single approach to this issue at the time when the issues remained open as regards succession, and it was only directed that these issues be further addressed by the competent specialised institutions in the further negotiation process. To solve this, no such arrangements have been made. All governments have, in my opinion, tried to resolve this problem in different ways; different expert groups have been formed, individuals negotiating on these issues, ministers have met, governments have addressed these issues at bilateral meetings, but the issues remain unresolved. Unsolved are probably due to the major material consequences that have stood behind these solutions, or because of certain fundamental issues of a legal nature, what are the principles of inheritance, what are not the principles of inheritance, what is a legacy and what is not a hereditary issue. Thus, after the European Court of Justice’s judgment was published, the Government’s key priority was to ensure the effective implementation of this judgment, so that these injustices would be corrected so that the interests of the Republic of Slovenia could also be adequately protected, so that the Republic of Slovenia could continue to exercise regressive rights or other forms of claims that could neutralise the effects of this judgment. Now, what are the options for this, it's a matter of different grades. The law of this extension gives sufficient scope, and then this must be done in further processes of successful negotiations and negotiations, even though the chances of diplomatic efforts are in fact declining over time. As regards the issue of, in fact, the central element of the discussion, the responsibility and the fact that provisions are included in the law, which should allow for the establishment of responsibility for such a solution, the Government has expressed itself negatively in this regard, in particular with this argument that these provisions do not fall within this law, and partly for substantive reasons, since, notwithstanding the fact that this issue is being resolved even when the republics of the former Yugoslavia in 1991 themselves, the consequences of these decisions would already represent a material burden for Slovenia. This burden has increased in the course of the failure to resolve this issue. In the situation in which we are, in fact, further negative consequences can only be prevented in such a way as to ensure that the judgment is implemented within the time limits set by the European Court of Human Rights and that a legislative framework is established which will clearly define how these issues will be adequately resolved. As regards the quantification and assessment of the material consequences, the public financial consequences of the law, it was explained that the principals, interest on the scheme presented were listed here and all costs related to implementation. The issue of interest rates is indeed crucial. During this period, we follow the judgment of the European Court of Justice, as this judgment was written: for 1992 the interest rate of 6 %, by the end of 1991 the interest rate was the same as that of each then applicable bond relationship. No additional interest, then from 1. 1. By the end of 2015, the interest rate is set as the average inflation rate in the currency countries represented in the nutritional roles of the old Ljubljana Bank. This interest rate or this rate of inflation makes it possible to maintain these nutritional deposits in real terms. We estimate that, on the basis of an argument, such a solution should also be acceptable to the European Court of Justice, which will also assess the implementation of this law, and to the European Council, which will also assess this as a political body accompanying Slovenia, in order to ensure that this judgment is carried out in an appropriate manner. It must be said that it is certainly not possible to appear before the courts with the assumption that it is 100% possible to provide assurance that this methodology will be adopted. Each court is unpredictable, and this court, which brought this judgment, has weighed all the arguments to a certain extent. We believe that we will also be able to demonstrate, on the basis of calculations and figures, that it is a fair solution to preserve the real value of foreign exchange savings and, on the other hand, we are willing to do so in a way that we will also relatively quickly and effectively implement the recognition process and that we will also be able to pay relatively quickly the recognised obligations and thus close this problem. In doing so, we do not give up the possibility of applying these amounts paid in further successful negotiations and leave open the possibility of regressions on all assets held by these two branches of the former Ljubljana Bank in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this broader context, we believe that we will be able to properly argue legal solutions before the European Council and before the European Commission. However, as far as these political aspects are concerned, which are legitimate, as the amendment's proposal here makes an argument, they go far beyond the objectives of the law itself, as set out. It is true that this law can be written somewhat technically from this point of view, bureaucraticly, but must be written primarily with the aim of ensuring that these solutions are adopted as appropriate before a court which has adopted such a judgment and which has required that the Republic of Slovenia settles these obligations, so that the violations of human rights resulting from a long-term would be resolved, not by delay, but by inability or inability to resolve the issue to the natural persons themselves in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joze Tanko, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your word. As regards the questions raised by several of our panellists, there was, in fact, no answer, except that, in the opinion of the Government, the requirement for a question of accountability does not fall within the law. Today, however, a museum train with a southnostalgic lining has stopped in Ljubljana, will charge 400 million euros and will go. This has been the result of some past decisions before and after independence. The representative of the Government specifically asked whether the statements we discussed held or did not hold on to individual decisions and also on responsibility for individual decisions. Now, if the Government knows when the decisions were, it also knows the authorities who have participated in these decisions and have also made decisions, not only have they cooperated. An integral part of this law, Mr Dragonja, is the question of responsibility, even in a criminal provision it should be, because it is a normal component of the law. But I don't understand why in cases where things need to be said clearly, as they say, bob beans, the government avoids that this should not be the case in this law. Which one? Do you know what other law or will you propose some other law where you will settle the question of responsibility for the individual or for the consequences of this law? You will propose another law or make laws by capturing the entire content from the description of the problem, the solution to responsibility and so on. You don't want to look back into history in some way, but it was an explicit question, and that was our question, to whom to pin this "deservation" for these four hundred million euros that are probably not final. To whom should credit be given, and what responsibility should we bear for this matter? For this museum train, which has now come to Slovenia for the third time for valuable Eurosticks and will take them to other locations. That was an explicit question. Mr Dragonja, you have also not answered about the potential consequences, what the President was talking about in the introduction. You were the CEO of the big company, you were the minister, you were the director again. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u41	Mr. Tanko, three minutes for the replica, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u42	I'm gonna end up if I don't, but I'm gonna take it to the debate, but it's not a problem. There are no answers to that. This is said to be a problem not only of the amount, the direct amount, as we are talking about in this law, but also of the other potential consequences of such a decision. And we didn't get any answers to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you are, Mr. Dragonja, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, this is where I represent the government's position. You've also asked me a few questions about how I personally view this. Even though many things have been said, I agree, here I represent the government's position and I have to present the government's position. Self - adoption and transition each of us, who at that time had a particularly important and responsible assignment, experienced our own. For all these difficult times, I would not want to underestimate these difficult processes in any way. The reform, as I believe, of the Yugoslav banking system was initiated in 1988, 1989 and led to certain decisions in the old Ljubljana Bank. Now, how much policy leadership agreements were at the time, what were the consequences of these systemic reforms of the Yugoslav banking system at its last stage, it would be difficult to say because I was not particularly prepared for this discussion. I think that as far as responsibility is concerned, it is my personal opinion that this is not the opinion of the Government that responsibility for this situation can virtually be divided into all governments or all structures and all the central bank meetings that have been working at this time to resolve this tough walnut. All the governments, as I said before, had the opportunity to resolve it, they were dealing with it, and all the governors and advisors were dealing with it and there was no solution to it. Why it didn't come, I mentioned it. I think it's because everyone who participated in this kind of blocked themselves slightly from the material consequences of such arrangements and the problem was put off. We have a typical situation where you can't solve the problem, but put it down. And put it down and hand it over as a stick forward. These political aspects, which were exposed at the outset, but this was a deliberate way to create conditions for consciously unlawfully alienating resources from the banking system, I think that in this part I see the problem more than a systemic problem, which was relatively complex. This was a relatively complex way in which foreign exchange deposits were regulated in the banking system of the former Yugoslavia. Foreign currency nutritional deposits were deposited with the National Bank of Yugoslavia, while the National Bank of Yugoslavia, in turn, gave business banks the equivalent in the then dinars in the form of loans. This was a relatively complex system, which, in this banking reform, which I mentioned, was further complicated in fact, and was not, at the time, a solution to the collapse of Yugoslavia. At that time, we could find a solution at the bilateral level at the level of the governors of the central banks if there were conditions and if there was a will to do so. There were no solutions. And as I said, I think the problem as a difficult problem has simply been put off and we have come to the conclusion that others have made a decision instead of those directly involved in solving these problems. This would be my more private opinion than the government's. As far as your amendments are concerned, I've introduced myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I think there is something to say about this responsibility, the amount is not small, the consequences are severe, although you still haven't answered the whole part of what I asked. However, we have in this country, and we also have a responsibility, for example, for small crimes, small offences or even for indictments, and for this there are large prison sentences and even fines. And it goes, say, to actions where there is no known place, no time, no location, no way, nothing else. But here we have a known number, that is to say, we have a known consequence, here we have famous decision makers, here we know all the chronology, why it happened, but the government, the government coalition, at least what was understood from the opinions, does not decide to support the determination of responsibility. This is a fundamental issue in this regard. We have not troubled the calculations, we do not problem interest, we do not question the amount, but we do question the chronology or procedure, the genetics of this occurrence of this obligation of the Republic of Slovenia and the responsibility for this matter being created and to such an extent. If someone decided on a procedure in 2004, then probably the one after ten years of negotiations, the one who came in 2004 must have had a hard time doing something if the whole system to the Paris Club or whatever I know where it went to this success committee, it was regulated in the way it was set up in 1994. That is why I would very much like to ask the representative of the Government, who is here today, under objective circumstances, in charge of defending this law, a position. That's why he came to this meeting, this proposal from our amendment. If the representative of the Government of this position cannot formulate our amendment, I propose that we suspend the meeting and get the opinion of the Government, which will be made by correspondence. I don't think there's another solution. It is irresponsible that the Government does not have a position on the amendment to its law. We have submitted it within the time limit, in accordance with the rules in force in the National Assembly, I think it has been tabled an hour or more before the meeting, and we want to answer this, because these amendments and the following two are related to solving the problems of responsibility for this museum part, the 400 millionth museum part that we will pay in part, and in part our children or even our grandchildren. This is the fundamental answer to the debate on this law and we simply want it. Or Mr Dragonja can say this as a representative of the Government, if not, but as usual, the definition of the Government to the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Dragonja, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Government's position was made clear: The Government does not support the proposed amendment to Article 1 and the subsequent amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors mainly because in this part these amendments go beyond the objectives and purpose of the law as it has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, if what you have just said is that our amendments go beyond the objectives and purpose of the law, then they would not be tabled, they would be rejected in the process of submission. Therefore, the amendments are correctly tabled, with the right content, because they are also on the table for discussion and it is simply necessary to define themselves in a substantive manner, not by inventing procedural barriers that were not present at the time of this amendment. They are inserted into the right article, in the right way, with the right content. That is why we want the Government's position on this, not in some diversionary way, by citing the Government's representative to some provisions that are not regulated by business, but I want a concrete response, because everything we have prepared and tabled to this law is properly done.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. So, of course, we're going ahead with the debate. The government may be defined, but it is not required to do so in every detail. This is, of course, then, and the government has defined itself. [[…]] Thank you very much. Is there another debate in Article 1? Please sign up. Here you go, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government or the Ministry! Today we are talking about an extremely important judgment, the enforcement of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which is certainly to be respected, and I think we are here in a completely unified position. In this case, however, it is not one contemptible judgment or execution of that judgment. This is a judgment that we are talking about almost EUR 400 million. I must say that I am disappointed that, somehow only by the opposition or our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, there is some interest in discussing the so important law that we are considering here today. It will have a very big impact on our budget, because it actually makes it part of our public debt. I'm not going to state here what I can do with these, almost 400 million. Of course, it is also not negligible that this amount is not known whether it is at all complete or fixed, mainly due to interest, as already mentioned here today. Of course, I regret that today the Minister of Finance is not here with us to explain in more detail where he is going to take this money: whether we are going to make an additional debt or, I will say, intervene in our social rights, whether we will be even more burdened with wages, or whether, I don't know, we will be further burdened by our already overburdened economy. Of course, since the burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia of the time on the savers of the old Ljubljanska Bank is being passed on to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, as a result, on the debt of our descendants as well, it is right to determine where the reasons are for this at all and, above all, who is responsible for this. I think that's the question here and it's the key. In the past, some wrong decisions have been made in the past, and wrong decisions have actually had extremely important consequences today. One of these is the one mentioned here several times today, namely the change in the status of independent legal entities of the Ljubljana Bank of Zagreb and the Ljubljana Bank of Sarajevo, which then became branches. This is a period before our independence, which, of course, has had and still has tremendous consequences for all of us today. I also wonder here whether decisions and decisions were merely random and perhaps not even intentional. We are currently talking about some indicative amount of EUR 400 million. We are also talking about some 30 additional jobs, as we have heard here today for the execution of the judgment itself. I personally believe that the future is in new jobs, in new jobs, but not in public administration. The future is in new jobs in the economy, in the private sector. I really hope that there will be no new employment in this case, and I might ask the Secretary of State to explain more about this. Somehow I really expect that this will be the very internal redeployments, because I believe that we have enough people to cover this area. I agree that the European Court of Justice has not identified the responsibility itself, but I expect this government to find out the responsibility for the situation and that this will not be one of the outstanding issues, as has already been mentioned here today. This is also where the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors goes, and I would expect it to be supported by all of you. I understand that the judgment must be carried out and that responsibility for the situation must also be established and I call again on you to consider and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. The judgment or finding of the European Court of Human Rights on the Ališić case is known. There is no more to be added here than perhaps just the thought of whether Slovenia actually fought as it should. But that's probably for another discussion. The fact is, too, that this judgment is unfavourable for Slovenia. That's clear to everyone, too. But in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do not understand how the fact that you simply do not hope, I do not know who is behind you, to support an amendment that is somehow logical in view of the consequences that this brings to the Slovenian state. We're talking 400 million euros. And what is this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party? It also states that this law provides for the determination and determination of the facts as to the liability of public authorities and public authorities in the conduct or omission of conduct in the case of the issue of the outstanding foreign exchange deposits of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, d. d. What's the problem with this amendment? Let me re-emphasize: €400 million. What does that actually mean if we look at these numbers differently. We discussed the subsidised diet here on Friday. We were united that this was a big problem and that there were more and more children in need of it. Do you know how many years of subsidised diet that would mean or say this amount? Almost 26 years. Come in. What does this amount for which you are not interested in responsibility mean, who is responsible? And that it will be clear and unquestionably who is to blame. We're talking about 70,000 student scholarships for all four years receiving Zois' scholarship. It is said that there are some good students and in some ways the future of our country. 70 grand for four years. That's the amount we're talking about today. What's that other amount? Let me tell you that this is about 42 thousand minimum wages for our citizens, but this is annual, respected. Forty-two thousand men! And you say that this amendment that we propose does not matter or does not belong to this law. Where are you going with this marriage? Of course it does! Just probably more than having a problem with these findings is who's responsible. And it's probably connected to why you don't want to support this amendment today. It's over. The next time we talk, there will soon be a report on the work of Slovenian police officers on the table in the National Assembly or on the Home Committee. We talked a lot about how much trouble they have, how little is their reaction time, how much longer it's going to be, even when we're talking about domestic violence. Twenty-six thousand annual salaries of Slovenian police officers means that. That's it. And please don't move! Tell them you don't want the Slovenian public to know who's responsible. However, most of all, it shows how much this 400 million means to you, that virtually on the left side of the hall the entire time of today's debate is empty. And the last time we talked about how you're going to limit running to individual Members, like citizens don't know who they're going to choose, and you don't want to let them have an absolute chance. All right, we've talked about this a lot, some of you've been discussing this for 120 minutes, and today you've taken 30 minutes. But we're talking about 400 million. Please, then at least don't say you're interested in the social state anymore because you're not. Because if you were, you would also be interested in why we have such a situation and what is to blame for the fact that taxpayers must constantly cover the bad decisions of some who will never take responsibility for it, and we will not show who they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Another round, please sign in. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Certainly this topic is not easy, because whatever we look at, this 400 million is mentioned, I can compare it to a large rock that fell into the government's backpack and all of us. There must be a lot of additional pressure on public finances. When did this thing start? I don't know. I certainly have nothing to do with this thing. The only thing I did was get information from the media at the time and follow up on these decisions, which have today resulted in such decisions as they are. Who's responsible? Yes, look, since a constitutional law was also adopted at the time, which led to the adoption of these decisions on NLB and NKBM. Once again, we're talking about $400 million all the time. I say this, I am sure, and I also know that when this decision on the non-payment of foreign exchange deposits was taken, our economy in the southern markets lost that real strategic position, a position that has been built for many years. This negative impact, not only on public finances, on the whole economy, can be measured in billions of euros. We know that. This situation is now somehow being rectified. So much for that. So the damage is incredible. Once the damage is done, it is later corrected, but it remains in humans and it will be very difficult to achieve the position we once had. That these injustices must be rectified as soon as possible, it is clear to us that this is a warning by judgment, not least of all the European Court of Human Rights, but that there is no other option here. But this high price of wrong policies and decisions are ahead of us. We are the ones who bear the burden of this, certainly with this capital, with this money we could do a lot, but unfortunately, we are the ones who got this on the table. However, I would like to say that I am absolutely for them to be found and that all those who should bear the primary responsibility must be made public in some way. Finally, we also have certain ways to implement this issue, and a parliamentary investigative committee has been set up to monitor the bank hole. I propose that this matter also be reconsidered in this direction and that this topic also be included in the competence of this Commission. I certainly think that whatever the composition of this topic is there, but I'm still saying that what happened, and this damage that happened, I think, is hard to fix for Slovenia. Anyway, both materially and morally. I would like this matter to be concluded as soon as possible, that the processes for implementing this law are being optimised and that, with as little costs as possible, we conclude that at least we are trying to correct the injustices already committed to natural persons. At the same time, I would like to invite all institutions to do everything in their power, and in fact we also contribute to this, if in any way possible, that our claims will be paid as soon as possible, in order to actually ease the pressure on our public finances in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Vojka Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! If the savers could not get their money, it is not only Slovenia's fault. It will pay a high price in these difficult times, but, of course, the question of inheritance was one that is supposed to solve this problem in parallel. In doing so, Croatia has boycotted all hereditary negotiations, and has continuously boycotted them. The current government has taken the necessary steps to implement the European Court of Justice judgment. This, however, is a payment in the shortest possible period of time, with lower costs than in the longer term. This also means to the savers that they will get the money sooner, and our country will cost less. So this law must also be brought to an end as soon as possible. As long as this thing drags on and on, it'll cost more. As for responsibility, we find in the Modern Centre Party that no government in Slovenia or foreign ministers have dealt specifically with this problem, even when Croatia entered the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Of course, I will support the amendment that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party because I am aware, as we are aware in our party, that there is still some important responsibility for individuals, at any function and at any time, that they must also be responsible for the decisions they have taken. Just before me, my colleague at SMC was talking about the billions of damages that have been caused to our banks, our economy and all of that, I fully agree with him here, there is no dilemma here, but when we are talking about the amendment that the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled in order to incorporate this amendment into the law and thus come through the law and demand certain responsibilities, it is time for implementation. And all of a sudden, no more desire to support this amendment is being sought for a million excuses so that through some commissions and so on, some of these also state-level constituencies, which will reveal what was going on in the bank holes, could determine the responsibility of those who blamed this mess. It's one of the pigs of the century, not one of the pigs of one generation, two generations, three generations, but one of the pigs of the century. Mr John Janša, all those who listened to him today – and I hope that the majority of those sitting here in the national assembly listened very carefully. Very clearly, explicitly, everything from point to point told exactly what it was, when it was, and who was responsible for the situation. And I don't understand why we wouldn't include this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this law and come to the bottom once in a while. Let's say Milan Kučan, Janez Zemleric, I don't know who else is responsible for this story. I'm not saying they are, but I'm saying, let's say by name and surname, who's responsible for the situation. Not that we're hiding without being misled; at one stage we're speaking super, we're looking for responsibility to determine, we're willing to do everything we can to get the rule of law to work. Or that we're for finding the culprit both in banks and so on. But when it comes to pressing the button, then we're out. And that's what I call two faces. Dear colleagues and colleagues, why should we show two faces if we have a common goal, a clear goal together to find the culprits who have done so? We all claim that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights must be respected. Of course, respect is required. What about respect for our taxpayers? What about those who will now pay for all this, which will be this 400 million and all the billions lost by the Slovenian economy and banks? What about this? Or do they have no right? So, you're just here to pay the bills of a mafia company that's been stealing, stealing and stealing Slovenian property all the time. And it's happening over and over again, and we're like nothing's happening. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we propose these things, because we really want to see responsibility, we are some ducks, what I know, some who are constantly nagging, who are always trying to force something and so on. But my dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that in this National Assembly, one will must once prevail, regardless of political affiliation, to reach a point and together, politics, we prove that we are truly responsible for those rascals through the time period of Slovenia alone and before those responsible for these pigs with names and surnames. We all know exactly when the changes were adopted. That's what Mr. Janez Janša was talking about. Because it is clear who sat in Parliament, from which the political instructions came, that such decisions should be taken. No! No! And we don't. Please be so correct once and don't be so double-minded as to make one concrete decision and bring these people to justice. And let the Slovenian people have the right, if they have to pay for all this shit, to find out who the mobster who did it is. May the Slovenian people have this right! The problem is that all these people are still alive or at least a few of these people are alive, except for the one who, with no idea which floor they threw down for not saying anything and committed murder. It was very quality to carry out the old Ascension, you know. They did it fantastically. Anyone who was troubled either in this way or in another way has been liquidated; either outside the Slovenian borders, whether it was in Germany or in any other country, or in the domestic environment. We have to call it an end. We know it's the truth and we're moving. Why in God's name am I asking you who? People expect us to pour pure wine once to those people who pay for all this story. And if 400 million euros, plus what Mr Laj said, is as much as the billions lost by the Slovenian economy and banks, is coughing, and if it's not worth every parliamentary party sitting in this Parliament, at least half an hour or as much as it has a chance to debate, then I really wonder what kind of parliament we're sitting in. Look, dear colleagues, where are those today who are defending the social state. One gentleman sits in here from the Social Democrats, then we have the United Left, one lady sitting in here, saying how they have to pay the checks, how we have to pay the checks, so that people can survive, so that I don't talk about Desus. One or two ladies are sitting even and only one gentleman has said a few sentences on this subject. If this is a responsibility to its people, to its electorate and electorate, so that pensioners have such low pensions, because we have to pay the bills of a gang over and over and over again, which has robbed this country, then let the devil take me. Therefore, dear friends, I would expect and I am grateful to the SMC that you are always, quite a lot of Members and Members here present, and also certain discussions on your part have been carried out, so that I know about your position, I would expect you to support this amendment, truly support and say that, despite the fact that some of the parties are sitting in this Parliament to sit and collect wages, we are not. We cannot only declare ourselves to want the rule of law and rule of law, but we really want to cut off this mafia criminal association from the past and the present. We really want to establish some quality foundations in this country so that this country can function as it should. Therefore, dear fellows and colleagues, I appeal to the SMC kindly, you cannot overlook everything. And don't look for a million excuses just so that we don't support this amendment when we talk about this law. You have every reason to do this. Do this for the sake of the Slovenian people, because of all those elections and voters who went to the elections and also gave you the majority vote to run this government. Please, please, seriously, on behalf of the Slovenian people, let's get together and make an end, make a line with this evil group that destroys all of us from behind and manipulates politics. In the end, we're always guilty of everything, and in the end, when you come between people they say, you're all the same bastards, no matter what political party you're in, and gentlemen from behind carry money to Switzerland with suitcases, and I don't know which countries you're in. I can't watch this anymore. Please, let's face it. Politicians are obliged to oppose this as much as we can, and we can do so with appropriate legislation. Therefore, please support the amendment that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party with one truly fair purpose to identify responsibilities and to make clear to those people who are responsible for this situation. Now, Mr. Janez Janša has made it very clear, without a doubt, that he has already said almost literally who is to blame because exactly when something happened. And that this was all directed at zero, the political mafia and it has to be done and these people are still living, at least most of them, and we have to say this to the Slovenian public once because it is our job and our duty. So please support our amendment and step together when it comes to responsibility, because we owe this to the Slovenian nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Of course, I expect, Mr Pojbič, because you were talking about stealing with names and surnames to press charges. That's it. Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? To the amendment to Article 1, the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u62	Dear President! We are the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not a Social Democratic Party and I ask you to conduct the meeting properly and that, at least if you are the Vice-President of the National Assembly, you know the names of the parties in the Slovenian National Assembly. There's only seven of us. I don't think we have much time left, but there would be only one question for the Secretary of State: according to some information, after the European Court of Human Rights judgment in Strasbourg was known and when Slovenia was told that within one year it had to draw up appropriate legislation, an appropriate law under the supervision of the Committee of Ministers, or that it held information for that judgment, a decision of the judgment and a decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and for the Committee of Ministers, it would be enough for the Government alone to adopt a law without being able to discuss it. That this law, adopted by the government of Mir Cerar, would be a document that would satisfy this judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? Here you are, Mr. Dragon Method, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Answer to Mr. Pogačnik. In June, when the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe discussed this issue, a positive assessment was given of Slovenia's efforts and how the European Court of Justice's judgment would be implemented. In this context, legal experts have carried out an assessment or analysis of the need for a regulatory basis in order to address the issue in the light of the major public financial consequences of this judgment, as well as some other corrective arguments, the expert opinion was that the legal basis for the enforcement of this judgment in the Republic of Slovenia should certainly be provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Any further discussion on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I shall then conclude the debate on this Article. We move on to Article 7 and the amendment of the United Left. Here you go. Please sign up for a debate. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u66	Mr President, thank you for your floor. The purpose of our amendments is to ensure that the consideration of the applications of beneficiaries is as predictable and as equitable as possible. Well, let me focus on Article 7. The current formulation is that the Fund can deal with applications that are not in Slovenian if they are understandable. This definition is inadequate in terms of the principle of predictability of law. Firstly, it is not clearly defined under which conditions the application is comprehensible. Secondly, the Fund has the right to freely assess which applications it will consider and which it will not consider, so the beneficiary will not even know when writing the application, for example, whether the application can be submitted in Croatian. He will not know what he must do to make the role of the one who deals with it understandable. We therefore propose a very simple solution to explicitly stipulate in the law that the Fund will also address the roles in the languages of the successor countries. This will increase the predictability and legal security of beneficiaries, since the Fund will be obliged to deal with all these applications, it will not be able to reject them just because they are not recorded in Slovenian. This will relieve the beneficiaries of the costs of the official translation, which is correct, because they have been waiting for their applications for twenty-five years. Such a solution will not entail additional costs for the fund. The fund will employ thirty new people to solve these cases, and these people will have to understand Croatian or Bosnian anyway because they will decide on the basis of the documents in these two languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Any other requests for discussion? Here you are, Mr. Dragon Method, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The government has carefully considered the amendment proposal that has just been presented and has taken the view that the amendment does not support it, because we believe that the proposed solution in the amended bill is appropriate and follows a similar regime, as is the case under the Law on the Legal Procedure for Charters in a Foreign Language. This is a formal explanation, as is now the formulation, that is to say that the role should be understood, is in fact a broader solution; it includes both the languages of the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia and the possible third languages, because individual documents, in particular inheritances and other documents, can also be submitted in other languages in the process of recognition of these claims. Thus, after thorough weighing, we have assessed that this formulation, as proposed in Article 7 above, is broader. At the same time, it is also based on the fact that the Fund will not unnecessarily impose additional obstacles in the administrative procedure in which the applications will be addressed. Indeed, the solution can be somewhat flat-rately defined, and it is also proposed with a view to economics and the acceleration of procedures under similar arrangements, as already referred to in Article 62 of the Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u70	I would just like to warn the Minister that the formulation, as you yourself said, is really very loose. In fact, "comprehensible" is a very broad concept of what is understandable to someone. Twenty - five years from now, we're afraid that if we don't get it right, we're gonna have a headache again, because we know it's going to cost us a lot more. Therefore, we insist, think about this amendment, for if we allow people to make proposals in their own languages, of course, we will let them know more precisely what is understandable and what is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7? If not, I conclude this debate. We move on to Article 12 and the amendment of the United Left. Is there a debate? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I will present our amendment to Article 12. The current proposal is once again very unclear and, in extreme cases, harmful to the beneficiaries. If the Fund is unable to decide on the basis of the evidence provided, it shall have the possibility to invite the beneficiary to submit additional documents or to carry out other admissible evidence. To that end, set a time limit for him, but that period relates only to documentary evidence and should also refer to other admissible evidence. All we propose is that the Fund must, in unclear cases, necessarily call on the beneficiary to complete the role with all the evidence allowed and set a deadline for him to do so. In no way do we extend the definition of permitted evidence. In this way, we would simply ensure that all relevant evidence is truly taken into account. The European Court of Justice has also warned that no savings agent should be rejected simply because it has no documentary evidence. We need to know that it has been 25 years or more since these savers invested their money in the Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, in the first paragraph, we explicitly stated that the Office decides not only on the basis of the evidence referred to in Article 10 but also on the basis of the information provided for in Article 9 of this Law obtained by the Bank of Slovenia from the Croatian and Bosnian National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Mr. Dragonja Method, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to immediately submit the Government's position on the amendment to Article 12. This amendment has also been carefully weighed and evaluated. In fact, this amendment interferes with the very essence of the proposed verification of the application. The verification shall be carried out on the basis of the documents submitted by the beneficiary and, on the other hand, those documents, which may also be incomplete, must be dealt with by the databases, it shall be said that the data available to the bank, that this nutritional role actually existed and that it was not legally reduced or that other ways in which this application could otherwise be carried out have not been used. The amendment you have proposed essentially excludes the possibility of this verification. As far as documentary evidence is concerned, it follows the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but it is not enough to provide the relevant evidence by the parties, the key part of the process of recognition of the application is the verification of the data in the records or databases of both branches of the old Ljubljana Bank. Without this verification being carried out, abuses may occur in the process of approving applications in this administrative procedure. For this reason, the Government does not support the proposed amendment of the United Left to Article 12, in particular not in the part concerning the second paragraph of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 12? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 19 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Would anyone like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 19. We move on to Article 20 and the amendment of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I would like to say the following about the amendment to Article 20. Some savers have open cases before Slovenian courts. The law gives them the opportunity to withdraw these matters free of charge if they are satisfied with the decision of the Succession Fund. If they want the court to hear their request, they must explicitly request it in court, otherwise they lose their legal interest, or the proceedings are closed forever, they cannot reopen it in the same case. But the problem is too short a hand. For free withdrawals, savers have only 15 days of time and 30 days of follow-up. Since it is a matter of people who live mostly abroad, this is an extremely short time, so we suggest that this time be extended to 60 days. If we're in a hurry now, I warn you again, we and our children may have a headache again in 20 years, so I appeal to you to make this scheme as open as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Dragon Method, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. However, the Government does not oppose Article 20 or the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 20. I am moving on to Article 23 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. No, no, no. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on all articles and amendments. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the third item of the agenda. I also adjourn the ninth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u80	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on how to enforce the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in case 60642/8 by emergency procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. 6. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u81	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In view of the fact that the debate on the law and the amendment of the Chamber was more than empty, I will read once again the amendment to know what is voted on today: "This law also defines the responsibility of public officials and state authorities in the conduct or omissions of conduct that has caused the burden of paying off the outstanding foreign exchange deposits of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, d.d., to fall on the shoulders of Slovenian taxpayers." In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with this amendment, we are trying to achieve that, for the consequences that will be paid by taxpayers in Slovenia, this law should be supplemented by this amendment, so that it is also stipulated that there is an attempt to establish responsibility for the situation of public function holders in particular. The fact is that this law has set out a large bill for taxpayers, €385 million. According to assurances from the Ministry of Finance, there is still no fact here that this number will eventually not be higher. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we fear that this number will be higher. And it is time for someone in Slovenia to take responsibility for their mistakes, which has now been established by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that we are not dealing with this amendment with the past, because past events have financial implications today and will have it tomorrow. We are talking about at least EUR 385 million in tax money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there are names and surnames for the situation, and in the past, many people have already learned from both the professional and the general public that the path that some individuals have envisioned here is wrong and that not only taxpayers have lost this decision but, above all, probably the most New Ljubljanska Bank, which could not extend to the territory of Croatia, and in particular the Slovenian economy could not enter the Croatian market. Today, however, the consequences are quite reversed; this means that Croatian companies take over Slovenian companies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we will make this proposal [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u82	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will not support the SDS amendments. In the case of amendments to Article 1, the explanation is inconsistent. On the one hand, it notes that the political decisions of the Slovenian Assembly and the governments that decided on the territorial principle were wrong. On the other hand, they speak of the fact that the State's defence of these wrong decisions has been underly defending the European Court of Justice. That's contradictory. Assuming that the position was wrong, as this judgment confirmed, then it is pointless to blame the prosecution for failing to defend it before a court of law. The other thing that bothers us is that there is a key article missing in this chain of events, namely the adoption of a basic law on the implementation of the Charter of Independence, specifically the third paragraph of Article 19. It is extremely stated that Slovenia assumes guarantees only in its territory. At the time, delegates may not have been aware of the consequences of this decision, but the fact remains that they have attached all Slovenian policy to the savers of the Ljubljana Bank until last year's judgment of the European Court of Justice. Therefore, we cannot support this recommendation. With regard to the proposal that the Government should prepare a report on liability, I can only say this. A few months ago, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the SDS, adopted recommendations that Banka Slovenije prepare a report on the causes of the bank hole. This recommendation came to the National Assembly in March and was well described by the government's first SDS. Of course, the proposer does not want to hear anything about this report now. He took advantage of the proposal for 6 hours of propaganda in the National Assembly, just like the three amendments, so that we could hear about the pervasive socialism, the jugonostalgia and the udbomafia. The last thing is that we will not agree on criminal responsibility for the decisions of the Demos' government being preached by its former members. Why didn't you ask for criminal responsibility to wipe out 25,000 people? We're the first, you know, to investigate responsibility, but independently, not as guided by those who did. For all these reasons, of course, we will vote against these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u84	Before I give the floor to explain my voice, I will read again what it is to explain it to the voice. The explanation of the vote is not a controversy, title, persuasion, call or question, which is for the purpose of the debate, but rather a presentation of the substantive reasons why the Group or Member will vote in favour or against the proposed solution. Please hold on to this. Now he has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, mag. Dušan Verbich. He's got an advantage in the process. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. President, I would like to warn you that you are not consistent in your conduct. Whenever any of our Members say anything in explanation or debate that they think is right, they will receive an immediate reminder. When this happens on the other side of the political space, which is up to here, to this corridor, nothing happens. You read and then you move on. I suggest that you be consistent in your conduct, whether such violations allowed by Mrs Tomić, are a reminder for all or not, then also in the future for no one. I also suggest that you correct and eliminate those reminders that you used to share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your opinion. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič for explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, President. The SMC Group is of the view that the responsibility of the political authorities for the period 1991 to the issue of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights must be established. As has been said in the debate by our Member, this can be done through the already appointed Parliamentary Commission to identify the bank hole, of course, while the competence of this Commission extends to this part. For this reason, therefore, the SMC Group does not support the amendment tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u88	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Alliance Mr Janko Möderndorfer Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u89	Have you decided what I am?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u90	I was wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u91	What is really important about the whole of the law is, above all, the fact that it has been put into urgent motion for reasons to close and settle as soon as possible the question that will really be appropriate, as they have explained to us in the debate on the committee itself and not least in the debate itself, I will say the requirements that we have on the basis of the judgment. The proposal put forward by the SDS cannot, in fact, be supported mainly because two things need to be separated: one is the enforcement of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, and the other is, of course, a political determination, which is our autonomous matter and this has nothing to do with the decision itself, and one must be clearly separated. Even less, I will say, mainly from the point of view of legality – of course, it is necessary to find out how the amendment proposal is written, particularly when we have proposals for what period, when and how we should identify it, that is, we do not know. It is also more or less clear from today's debate that those who were actors at that time, when the time was right, did not raise these issues. Furthermore, it is more important to be aware that when such amendments are put directly into the proposal of the law, it is necessary to know that, in similar situations, such amendments should be made there, and we have not done so because we were able to separate these things. Above all, I will say that the parties to the proposal have not come to the point of reason to give political responsibility in the case of deleted persons. Therefore, of course, this proposal, for the first time, is illegal, for the second time, we do not even know how to implement it. Moreover, it urges the government to find out something even in the sixties that we were unable to figure out in the early 20 ’ s, which I find extremely unrealistic and unthinkable. Above all, it is clear from the policy point of view that it is once again a matter of generating political points. However, we will be pleased to support any proposal that will go in the direction of identifying political responsibility, if, of course, you propose to set up an investigative commission that will be able to investigate it, in this you are masters, you know, master, master, and you will reach the mid-term report. So I think it's time for you to use the weapon you're most capable of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u92	And that wasn't an explanation for the voice either, at least last not, but it was a controversy. Could you please just explain your voice, how you will vote and nothing else? Now he has the floor to explain his voice, Mr Janko Weber, on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. We will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in the Group of Social Democrats, because the law we are adopting today is the law on how to enforce the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This Court of Human Rights has not dealt with offenders or the responsibilities of public officials to cause such a situation and, of course, cannot be the content of this law, so we cannot support this amendment. In addition, if this amendment were to be supported, it is clear below that it would be a report by the Government, which could be prepared, but it does not discuss this report by the National Assembly, only being aware of this, which means that this effect would not have been achieved, as it is somehow understood from the debate. For these reasons, we do not support this amendment in the Group of Social Democrats, and we believe that this content must be resolved in other or laws or investigative commissions that can be set up to do so, or perhaps by extending the content of the already established commission to investigate the operations of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u94	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I suggest that, especially for those Members who have a few years of experience, you make a seminar in the National Assembly to determine during the discussion the explanation of vote, the procedural proposal and the replica. I see that some, despite having a rather long track record, mix everything up and talk about everything else in explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members, but not about the position of the Group of Members. I propose, Mr President, to avoid all these complications that happen when you talk about things being misused, to learn first, because they are not abusers, but do not know. And I suggest you take a course in the National Assembly, maybe in room 117, I suggest individually, so there will be no real complications. Because what is happening now, especially by how you react, when you may end up warning them with nice words, but do not take any action, otherwise it is not right. I have recently received a public reminder because I have not even discussed it, and Irgle's colleague, too, has spoken here for a long time about all other matters. In our parliamentary group of others, I will say, a well-intentioned smile and a kind quoting of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I suggest that you really focus first on perhaps the leaders of the parliamentary groups, because here is the key problem. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u96	I'll take a moment to reflect on your proposal. Maybe I'll start with you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, even as a matter of procedure, I suppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u97	You're making the right assumption, President. Look, we all know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are the only interpreter of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the meeting and colleague Tanko has allowed himself an EPP contribution for his own activity, which he is likely to open when the mandate is completed, so that he can do so. In fact, mainly in the direction of how to abuse the rules of procedure as much as possible and justify not misusing it. Above all, it will be presented as the greatest witch, all-knowing and all-intelligence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think it's about time you, as president of such excursions and escapades, prevented us from working normally. But otherwise, of course, I would be happy if you would need any lecturers on what you said, my friend Tanka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u98	What's your procedural proposal? [[adverts from benches]] Thank you for your opinion, too. Any other explanation for the voice? Then please report. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u99	Your Honor! If anything in this country feels like what is too small, it is a matter of responsibility, it is a responsibility at all levels. The amendment that we are proposing and for which I will vote is precisely about responsibility, which in the present case is quite clear and which is responsible for fraudulent sabotage, to use the correct expression, the attempt of Slovenian independence within a few months before the first democratic elections, when, with the agreement of the then party leadership in Slovenia, with the Kučan principle, with the Serbian leadership, with Milosevic at the head, an agreement was reached that the two banks, which until then had special separate units, were the Ljubljana Bank in Slovenia and the Belgrade Bank in Serbia, changed their unit to a branch, in the daughter’s bank. What changed that? Specifically. The Zagreb Bank was under guarantee until then, under the influence, if you want, under everything that normally works by the National Bank of Croatia. Since then, however, the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia has taken place. That is why, and this is why, today, we face the decision that that big hand with the red star will reach back into the citizens' pocket and pull 200 euros out, in this case every child, and pay some of their old political games back. This is the same hand that caused the bank holes that caused everything we're talking about, and which is why every citizen and citizen, because of this hand with a big red star, which has already drawn 16,000 euros out of his pocket, today, when he's born, owes this country for one car of money that he's never going to drive with, because some other people have already lost him. And we're talking about this responsibility and we're talking about [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u100	I don't give reminders today. And, fellow Grimes, we could have said the same thing without that metaphor about the big hand with the red star, it would have been quite simple. I don't know why wait a little while to say it to the end, while I'm talking There's no way for procedure, then you'll get it. [[…]] [[…]] Please do not use any of the following matters that might trigger unnecessary debates on these issues. I really don't understand why the red star needs to be dragged here. You wanted a procedure? Gradually, my colleague Grimes. One minute to wait until you speak to get back on track.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u101	Good. Mr President, given that you have an academic education, I ask you in a procedural manner: which symbol symbolizes the agreement between the two party leaders – specific Slovenian parties with Kučan at the head and parties in Belgrade with Milosevic at the head – such as the red star? They had different flags, but the red star was the same symbol in both of them. It's, by the way, the same symbol of that army that attacked us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u102	It is currently not procedurally intended to question the President, but is intended for procedural proposals. That is also why I thank you for your opinion. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to explain his own vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I will, of course, support the amendment to Article 1 of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will support him for the reason that during my life I am aware that the Slovenian transition was not randomly carried out as it was. I am aware that the rule of law country, the country in which the rule of law exists and which is a market-oriented country, is where the losses that we have today, when we confirm them, are reflected on an individual level but are not socialised. The essence of our country in all three, we can say two bank holes and to this unfortunate, we can say, a change in the status form of the New Ljubljana Bank, but it shows that all these losses are socialized. This is exactly why the Slovenian transition was not successful. I call on you and remind you that in every accident, everyone has responsibility; responsibility for not doing so again. Responsibility for knowing who did it, whether it was a systemic error, whether it was an individual level, and that is the essence of the operation of a rule of law. The essence of the rule of law or rule of law is that we never look back and always look forward. The story of why we have to look back is opening to us today. This story will generate a new EUR 400 million. That is why this amendment needs to be supported, supported by the fact that it is an obligation for all of us to be aware that the rule of law is working, or that we are striving to act, and that the responsibility of the people who then decided – and we know who was in power, because it was very easy because there was one party, one party and essentially one and the same face – to confirm it. I ask you to support, as I myself have said, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u104	Any other explanation for the voice? Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will support it because I am responsible and because I want citizens and citizens to know who is responsible for the EUR 400 million that Slovenia will have to pay. Because we will be able to find out where 70,000 years or four - year scholarships of students will go. So that we can know where 26 years of child support subsidies will go, and so that we can know where 42,000 years of gross guaranteed wages will go. Therefore, I think it is imperative that the Slovenian Democratic Party be supported by this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u106	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. President! Of course, I will support the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party because I am convinced that it is absolutely necessary to establish responsibility. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, and personally, we are not looking for a million reasons for not doing anything and for no responsibility to be found. We don't cheat and I don't cheat, and I'm sure this amendment is also put in for this purpose. Above all, I must say, because 400 million euros of stolen money will have to be paid by those who don't even have lunch payments to their children and those who can't pay their bills and those who receive 200, 300, 400, 500 Euros of pension. Because of this and because of our responsibility to these people, we owe it to these people to at least ensure that they know who they were paying for and that they will know who the person who stole that money is. This is our mission, and this is our duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u108	Any other explanation for the voice? Now I'm asking you all to sign up. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You all said it, so I signed up on my own. I will support our amendment, which we have tabled primarily because it is one dimension of the cost, which is difficult for the approximately 15-year budget of the National Assembly. I will support it because it is non-discriminatory because it covers all those who have been in this period, not separated between, I don't know, Demos and none, but it concerns everything, and I will also support it because it is finally time to determine whether these negotiators, who have been appointed by one government, were incompetent, whether they were malpractice or not, whether or not they have deliberately led to this situation as we have today and when we have to adopt this law. Finally, I will support it because the Government, by its law, is setting up investigative commissions because it will undertake projects of great importance of 1% of GDP and perhaps even Mr Stare will be the first President of the Commission of Inquiry – a gentleman sitting here before us. I propose that this support be joined by another. As I say, for these reasons, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u110	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will not support this amendment for a simple and simple reason, because you have already identified the responsibility of the holders of public functions in the plenary session today and you know exactly who you have identified, who is responsible for this matter in the country. And if you find out, then there's no point in us accepting this amendment. But I'm going to take it now that the investigator can also bring this matter to light. I propose a similar solution as the SMC to add this part to the investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u112	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 18, and the vote was 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 7. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. The European Court of Justice explicitly stated in its judgment that no role of savers should be rejected solely because it no longer has an original savings book or a deposit contract. Twenty-five years have passed and the war in Krajina and Bosnia has been in between, and this must also be taken into account in the evidentiary standards. We therefore propose the following technical amendments to the law. Savings and heirs should be explicitly allowed to take part in the Serbian or Croatian language. This makes the procedure cheaper and increases the predictability of the legal regime. The current formulation says that the Fund can deal with applications that are understandable, but it does not specify what is an understandable role and gives the Succession Fund the discretionary right to deal with applications. We have simplified the matter; the fund must deal with applications in the official languages of the successor countries of the former Yugoslavia. The staff of the Fund will have to understand these languages because they will deal with the documentary evidence in Serbian or Croatian. Thus we do not introduce an additional condition, only more predictability for beneficiaries, and we owe it to them after twenty-five years. The government says that its proposal is broader Yes, the government proposal allows someone to write an application in German, for example, and if the official accidentally understands it, it will be considered. [[…]] On the other hand, according to a government proposal, it is possible for the application to be rejected after a free judgement. This introduces into the arrangement the element of arbitration. We prefer to see that some of the roles will have to be translated into Slovenian rather than in order to make the treatment dependent on coincidence. I repeat, according to a government proposal, the beneficiaries will not know which languages are being taken into account. Article 12 should explicitly provide that, in addition to the information provided by the beneficiary pursuant to Article 10, the administrative authority shall also decide on the basis of the records referred to in Article 9. It is expressly necessary to provide that the Fund must give the beneficiary, which has not submitted all the evidence in the application, an additional deadline to supplement the application with all the evidence permitted under the law, not only by means of documentary evidence. I repeat that we do not disseminate the definition of permitted evidence, we do not interfere with the verification process, we simply explicitly write down what the government assumes. In short, the Bank of Slovenia database shall be taken into account in addition to the proof of the beneficiary. In short, we will support this amendment and hope that it will also be a coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u114	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We will not support this amendment. The offices in Slovenia operate in the Slovenian language, except in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, and this is regulated by a special law. There is no need for these rights to spread in this way and no shame in doing so in the Slovenian language in all, even in these cases, in the Slovenian language. This is just our constitutional provision that we have there at the very beginning of the Constitution one article, where it says that the official language is Slovenian. Those wishing to exercise rights must exercise these rights in the language of the State or Republic of Slovenia. That's why we won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u116	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 59. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 12. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. In Article 20, we proposed that the deadlines in which beneficiaries must declare themselves should be extended, whether they will continue or withdraw their justice before the courts. This is non-profit damage, which is not covered by the legal scheme. The government is proposing a 15- and 30-day deadline, and we propose to extend it to 60 days. After all, it's about people living abroad. We will, of course, support these amendments, we hope that the coalition will support them as well. That we don't ever make it impossible for anyone to get their savings again, and that we don't get a headache again unless the Council of Ministers approves the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u118	We vote on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 12, not Articles 20, 12. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 55. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 19 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 50. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to 20. A member. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 20 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, and I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted for second reading have led to a lack of harmonisation of the bill. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u119	Mr President, thank you for saying so. We will not support the proposed law in the SDS Group. We won't support him for a number of reasons. One reason is that the National Assembly, the coalition, did not support our amendment, which would give this law added value, namely to establish responsibility for the situation, responsibility, why taxpayers today and tomorrow will pay at least EUR 385 million in compensation to former savers of the Ljubljana Bank. The second reason is that there is a high likelihood that the National Assembly of this Act should not be considered at all, namely, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the Committee of Ministers which examined it, according to some information, would be sufficient for this law to be adopted by the Government itself. The third argument, however, is that there is a high likelihood that, with regard to the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, this is not the last law to be dealt with by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that this number, which will be paid by taxpayers, will be significantly higher than it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u120	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian public has always been under the influence of the official position that foreign deposits are solely a matter of inheritance, not a relationship between the bank and the savers. The European Court of Justice has now shown that the legacy cannot be an excuse for Slovenia not to pay the Bosnian and Croatian branch savers of the Ljubljana Bank. Slovenia should first assume the guarantees for these applications and only then claim funds from other successors. That is exactly what the European Court has now ordered us to do. The problem of savers is one of the consequences of the unilateral secession of Slovenia. The then Slovenian government could not reasonably expect other republics to adopt a territorial principle. She didn't negotiate with the other republics. It simply decided on a principle that was most opportunistic from a narrow financial point of view. Other countries did the same. There is no excuse that Croatia and Bosnia have not adopted a territorial principle. They didn't have to do that. They were in different circumstances than Slovenia and acted legitimately. This is because Mr Dragonja has repeated today the old thesis that the judgment against Slovenia is criminal and that other republics are responsible for human rights violations. If that were true, it would probably be in the judgment of the European Court of Justice. All it holds is that Yugoslavia had a single guarantee for applications and that Slovenia can seek compensation in further negotiations. If anyone did, the Demos government and everyone else acted double-crossedly for her. When it came to the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, they acknowledged the territorial principle, but when it came to the deleted inhabitants, they did not want to hear anything about the principle of territoriality. Among all the successors of the former – Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union – Slovenia was the only one who violated the principle that permanent residents who did not acquire citizenship of the new state must maintain the right of residence and all the social and economic rights associated with it. Up to now, a well-established 19 million compensations have been granted to the deleted inhabitants. This is a small thing compared to $385 million for savers under this law. But both are still small compared to the billions of social assets that have been privatised in the context of denationalisation and ownership. All of this is shared by one common denominator; these were the conscious decisions of the Government of Demos and its successors, who built an ethnic state and renewed capitalism. We are correcting some of these mistakes by means of this law, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u122	Explanation of vote on behalf of [[…]] Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We have now probably crossed these limits of tolerance again as regards explanations of vote. The lady, who had an explanation of her vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group, read a recital written to her somewhere outside these premises of the National Assembly. They obviously do not know the rules of the Rules of Procedure and do not refer to the topic of the agenda, to the item on the agenda. Therefore, I suggest you, indeed, that at least those leaders of the parliamentary groups who should take care of those who have difficulties explaining their voice, inviting them to have a conversation and explaining what it is. What has now been said in this regard has absolutely nothing to do with the agenda. There's absolutely no connection. We are talking about responsibility and payment for those who have been savers of the New Ljubljana Bank and this point with deleted has absolutely nothing to do with it. If they want to add anything to this matter in the United Left, Mr President, or anywhere else, then I suggest they invest something in the National Assembly to discuss those agenda items. I suggest that you use what you can use in accordance with the rules of procedure; you can take the floor, even in the middle of a debate, if you want to, if you see that this is the case, but it is not right that this goes past you in cases where those who sympathize with certain symbols speak. It is right for Members of the United Left and others to calm down. Here we have a democratic state and a rule of procedure that speaks about how the debates should proceed. While you are now the chairman, I suggest you make sure that this is really going to happen as it is written. These discourses are not worth a Member, not one who thinks he has said much, but in fact nothing about the agenda. If there is anything in connection with deleted persons, they can set up an investigative commission to determine the responsibility of Drnovsk's governments, which has done nothing that has done nothing for decades to fix these matters, anything else can. We are open to all things, we will not object to any, but I suggest that you conduct the meeting as you wish, and also organize an individual course first for some leaders of the sent groups, and then for some Members. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u124	I will most likely have to organise a special course for explanations of vote and then for procedural questions. The word has magic. Mr Alenka Bratušek for explanation of vote on behalf of the Allied Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are talking about a law that is heavy or worth 400 million euros, and if today, when we vote, people are watching what we are saying, then it is no wonder that the credibility of the National Assembly is as low as I think it has not yet been in our country. Unfortunately. In the Alliance Group, we will support this law. Once again, I would like to point out that you want to make a very big 400 million commitment to Slovenia in two years, and unfortunately I am convinced that without the feeling of Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian pensioners, public servants, the socially weakest, it will not work. However, if you want this to be true, I am sure that in the autumn we will meet with the preparation of the budget with the amendment of this law, where implementation will be extended. Then, of course, we will remind you of what we are saying today. However, since we know that the obligations that have been made in the past have to be fulfilled in the light of the Court's judgment, we will support this law. However, the responsibility for the implementation of this law lies, of course, with the Government and the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u126	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we vote on the whole law. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote is 51 and 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. There were 21 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. With the amendment of this law, we want to increase the price for access to lunches in primary schools for children, says the United Left and ZaAB. Why is this one necessary? During the crisis, the poorest layers of us received two blows; the first was the economic crisis that caused many to lose their jobs and the second was the austerity measures that followed the crisis. As a result, there are now 300,000 people living below the poverty line in Slovenia, of which 55,000 are children. Many of these parents and children can no longer afford to pay for lunch in primary school, while censorship is set at an absolute low level. In fact, only children from those families in which income per household member is less than €180 are entitled to the subsidy. In schools they try to help these children in a variety of ways; somewhere they set up solidarity funds, somewhere else, like in Maribor, as the Municipality of Maribor began to supplement the subsidisation funds so that children could get lunches. Unfortunately, many children depend only on the good will of humanitarian organisations, and one of these Friday humanitarian organisations smiles at us, proposing that we try to raise the price from €180 to €360 per household member or €540 per parent, which is slightly below the statistical threshold of poverty. Once again, I would like to thank all Members for their very constructive comments on this law the last time, and given that all the groups in this proposal have expressed their support today, I hope that we will agree on the need to help children and that the last thing we can allow in the 21st century is to leave them hungry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much, President. This is the topic where, thank God, it brings together this national assembly on the question of whether we allow children in school to be hungry. On Friday's initiative and proposal, we have joined the co-proposal of this law. And I believe that, because I am convinced that there must be significantly fewer words and more actions here, that by means of a proposal, it is true that the other treatment, by the Government, will receive such a proposal that will also be acceptable and will be supported, and that we will finally come to at least one attempt to have a common language in Slovenia as regards the nutrition of children in school. Besides, let me tell you what I think is most important. We play several times with statistics and basically operate and compare what would be better. In this case, there is simply no excuse to discuss whether a child can be hungry or not. For, in the second reading, if these excuses exist, and there will be various suggestions, we will quickly calculate where all the state is investing, and we could find room for food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u130	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. At the same time, at this stage, we would like to point out that we expect that not only the ministries of education and work, which have also contributed greatly to the positive opinion of virtually all parliamentary groups on this law, will also be involved in the provision of finance by the Ministry of Finance. Because the Ministry of Education does not already fully provide funds for statutory tasks, but, of course, the Ministry of Labour has higher responsibilities each year, so it would be appropriate to continue to listen to the implementation of this law by the Ministry of Finance, so that we can indeed say that we have made a significant move forward, how we will distribute the funds that we are collecting in the budget. Above all, the Social Democrats want these funds to help the most vulnerable groups to better overcome their daily obligations and school-bound children are, of course, one of the biggest obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u132	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the law. Especially since there are still many children in this country, it seems to me that we have done something in the last few years. We will also support it from the point of view because we want to close the story of hungry children in Slovenia in some way, so we contribute our votes for it. At the same time, I would like to point out here that it is precisely for the way in which funds will be shared in the future that we will be adopting in this National Assembly. Today's support, expressed by all law, seems to me that it will also be visible when the budget is further adopted for next year, because we will provide funds to these children, these hungry children. I hope that you will also know at that time what this is about, that it will not be about reducing funds, as was the case with this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The Desus Group will also, of course, fully support this bill's proposal. At the moment when 300,000 people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are below the threshold of social exclusion, when out of this 55,000 children in this number, when only in the last period 7,000 children have come into this position, at the moment and at the time when children are hungry, when poverty literally occurs in all times of our lives, it is the last time to do so: with words and deeds. Lately, it has also changed the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Resources, to lower censorship and to allow children living in such situations, when they already have difficulty providing basic meals, warm meals daily – to help them. Desus, with the support of this law, will end this and at the same time stand in the way that the solutions to the law will also bring about the fact that children will not be hungry and will live a life worthy of man’s dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u136	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Of course, the Modern Centre Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law, since this time it is exceptionally true for children. Until the second reading, however, we expect the Government to draw up an appropriate proposal or model, both in terms of fairness and accessibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u138	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u139	We will also support this proposal in the first reading within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. We supported or introduced a law to subsidise the student diet in the first Janšev government, in 2012, subsidising student and student tickets. Here, too, in this case, it is exclusively for children who are not really guilty of the situation their parents are in, so we support this proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u140	So we can vote. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 21st item of the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I call on you to support this decision that the law is suitable for further consideration, although there is no special hope in relation to the debate. That's completely understandable. What's this all about? Slovenia has, since 31 March, a person acting corruptly at the head of the prosecution organisation. This is the Commission's finding to prevent corruption. At the same time, he has at the head of the prosecution a person who has acted unlawfully. So, in violation of the law, so that a third person, this is Mr Skrlec, has made it possible, materially or immaterially, as you take — materially, I mean — to benefit from the fact that he is in some position and gets a salary that he should not have. At least that was the decision of the Court in 2012. We expected that, in particular, the SMC, as, say, the largest and also the most responsible party for the situation in this country, would be in accordance with its principles, which it had written in its programme and which it also went to the elections to resolve the situation. That is why we have also waited a few days after that meeting of the National Assembly, and in fact we have been waiting since March 31 for something to happen in this area. However, it is quite clear that nothing will happen, so we introduced the law. The law allows you to supplement it with amendments at a second reading, if you think that the individual parts are wrong. Of course, if you reject the law, at that moment in that second you are pressing the anti-button to take the greatest responsibility in this country for this state that we have. So for the fact that at the head of the prosecution's organization, we have a person who acted corruptly. This is probably contrary to the principles you have written down; but we will see what the vote will show. We will, logically, support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u142	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. The adoption of the proposed amendments could constitute an intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy and independence of state prosecutors and state prosecutors. In addition to respecting the transparency of the procedure and legal certainty for all candidates already provided by existing legislation, we believe that such changes are unnecessary and that we will not support them in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u144	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. We will not support the law and, above all, because we want corruption to be effectively resolved in Slovenia and if we terminate the mandate of the Attorney-General's Office in the middle of his work, then, of course, we will go very far into the work of the prosecutors themselves. This, of course, means a very large extension of corruption in Slovenia, so that such a decision is unacceptable for us to terminate the term of office of the Attorney General. Otherwise, we do not hide the disappointment that there has been a procedure for appointing the Director-General of the State Prosecutor to make mistakes, but the Council of State which is responsible for how fate will take place or the term of office of the Attorney-General has also decided that these procedural offences were not such as to interfere with the work of the Attorney-General, i.e. the substantive work. In order not to stop the proceedings already under way, it is very important that this law is not adopted and, of course, allow the prosecution to continue working effectively against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u146	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. We will also support it in particular for the reason that politics cannot hide behind some formalisms. Politics has tools and the possibility of correcting and abolishing the anomalies that occurred when the criminal responsibility of the Attorney General's Office was established. I'm listening here to say, yes, politics has nothing to do with politics having scissors and canvas with the possibility of changing the law, and I think it's high time we all knew that. [[…]] Because, last but not least, we're all guilty and we're all hiding behind some formalism who's appointing the Attorney General. We know that this has been different in the past and that it is also now possible for this to change. Of course, political will is required. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u148	So we can vote on the law? We vote on the decision. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 and 49. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the ninth session of the National Assembly.
