ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mr Andrej Cuz, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Matjaž Hanžek, Mrs Iva Dimic by 1:00 p.m. and Mr Primož Hainz by 2 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on value added tax under the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly present the main solutions to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act. The basic objective of the draft law is to simplify the calculation and payment of value added tax on imports of goods, so that VAT will no longer be paid as an import duty on imports, but through VAT. For the recipients of the goods, this means simplifying the charging of the import tax, especially the financial burden, since they will no longer have to finance the import VAT. The recipient of the goods will be able to charge and pay VAT on imports of goods through VAT, if it is designated as a taxpayer, is identified for VAT purposes and shows the VAT levied on imports of goods on the invoice. In these cases, the recipient of the goods is obliged to pay within the time limit within which it is obliged to submit the VAT bill. At the time of import, the consignee must provide the tax authority with at least its VAT identification number, tax base, rate and VAT amount in the customs declaration. Simplification of the charging and payment of VAT on imports of goods will also be available to the recipient of goods not established in Slovenia if he appoints a tax representative who is jointly responsible for the payment of VAT on imports of goods. This measure will save the economy €32 million per year. Furthermore, the draft law also defines the value added tax rates applicable since July 2013, when they were introduced as a structural measure on the basis of the measures agreed under the Stability Programme. It is needed in terms of ensuring a sustainable way to address the excessive deficit and urgently strengthening the public financial balance strategy. This will not have a negative impact on economic recovery. The main objectives of Slovenia’s public financial policy for 2016 and 2017 set by the Government in the new stability programme will also be supported. The implementation of the Act is provided for as from 1 January 2016, providing for a transitional regime for the application of the provisions relating to the accounting and payment of VAT on imports of goods, namely those provisions will apply to goods for which the VAT duty from import is due after 30 June 2016. Respectful, take into account all of the above, I propose that you support the amended law, which also includes the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to Article 2 concerning the definition of the data to be kept by the tax authority within the envisaged register of tax representatives who will be jointly responsible for paying VAT on imports of goods when that system wishes to be used by an undertaking not established in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Tiln Bozic, to submit the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. As part of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we are at our 37th emergency meeting, which was on Friday 13. 11. 2015, as a parent labour body treated the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act. It was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. The Committee also received the following additional material to the draft law, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the committee responsible for the State Council and the review of the amendments. Until the meeting of the committee, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the coalition SMC, Desus and SD and the SDS. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the competent commission of the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introduction, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained that the basic objective of the proposal is to simplify the charging and payment of VAT on imports of goods, so that VAT on imports of goods will no longer be paid as an import duty, but through VAT on taxable persons, in this case, administratively simplifies the payment of VAT on imports and burdens them, as they will no longer have to finance import VAT temporarily. The liquidity effect, i.e. a positive impact on the economy at the expense of the State, is estimated at EUR 32 million. The proposed possibility of defining already established VAT rates opens up the possibility of restructuring tax burdens in a way that establishes a comparable distribution of the tax burden between consumption, income and property, following the basic objectives of the Government under the Stability Programme and promoting economic growth and fiscal consolidation. The transfer of VAT rates currently in force in the ZDV-1, according to the Secretary, will have no impact on the revenue of the State budget, but if the current VAT rates were not regulated, the level of rates would have returned from 2016 to the level in force before 1 July 2013, resulting in a budget deficit of around EUR 250 million. With regard to the report – On a proposal, the Legal and Legislative Service made comments, which were then taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. The Commission of the State Council for Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the draft law in its report. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed their concerns about the solution to the transformation of the introduction of a temporary measure to increase VAT into a permanent solution and have also tabled amendments in this regard. In doing so, the applicant was told that work and consumption were overtaxed compared to capital taxation. In their view, it would suggest that changes should be made to any other measure in the tax policy system, and in general the Government's policy should be too focused only on raising tax and excise measures. The representative of the Government reiterated the consequences of the non-admission of the proposed law, which would reflect on the expenditure side of the budget and thus on social transfers. It also stressed that the transposition of VAT provisions into the system law had already been announced at the time of the adoption of the provisional VAT raising measure. The Committee then considered the amendments tabled to the draft law and adopted the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups and rejected the SDS amendment. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Andrej Šircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	The Honourable President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the value added tax solutions that simplify import procedures and have a double effect. In our view, on the one hand, that companies will have greater liquidity will affect their liquidity and, on the other hand, that administrative costs will be lower both for taxpayers and for the Tax Administration. On the other hand, we strongly oppose the fact that the provisional rates of value added tax, which have been regulated so far by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, are applied by this law as constant rates. The rates of 22% and 9.5%, which were established during the worst crisis, in 2013, were then established to the public and to all of us as temporary rates, and when the crisis comes to an end, the crisis will no longer have such effects in Slovenia, so that these rates will be no longer. This was agreed with the Budget Implementation Act, and we know that there are many things in this law that are not in other laws and that it should be. However, with this law, this coalition imposes a temporary solution for a permanent solution and a wrong solution, because, above all, this solution is unsocial, as we know, the value added tax is the most affected those who have at least if you want the poorest layers of the population, which is completely mathematically calculated. This means, of course, that the most vulnerable groups of pensioners, those with the lowest rates, will inadvertently pay value added tax on their purchases. Why is it invisible that this tax is invisibly collected from the final consumers when they buy goods or buy services, taken by the seller to the Tax Administration and actually paid all the taxes to the final consumers. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are firmly opposed to such a resolution of the fiscal system in the country, we are determined to do so in a somewhat counter-productive way, so that the measures taken during the worst crisis are simply prolonged. This value added tax will not increase private consumption in Slovenia, but even fewer of the solutions that this law brings, which means an increase in rates; we know that Slovenia is a geographically small country and that small-scale traffic, to say the least, is still very intense. People are just going to buy where the goods are cheaper. If the overall value added tax rate in Austria is 20%, all products are taxed by 20%, we have 22% and we can already have 2 percentage points or 10 percent differences in the value added tax rate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that these are the wrong solutions so that the State should achieve consolidation of public finances through other measures, not only the easiest to say that it simply prolongs solutions that have been taken as temporary into permanent solutions, at the expense of the people. It appears that this coalition, with such solutions, with increasing burdens of people – and especially those with the lowest income – is actually adopting solutions that are working against people. People are more taxed for this and have less real income. This is why we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished secretary, welcome to all! The Law on Value Added Tax would not be contentious if it did not allow the level of VAT to be maintained, which has been in force since the last amendment of 2013. Let me make it clear that this means that the regulation remains the same as we know it so far, and there is no increase in the tax rate. Tax revenues have increased since then, and therefore, according to the Desus Group, such a financial resource needs to be maintained. We also expect more taxes collected next year, which will be higher by around 3% and 4% in 2017. Yes, indeed, maintaining the higher rates of value added tax sounds very cruel to the already impoverished population of Slovenia. The measure is not at all like it, regardless of how it can be softened; it is popular or not, but it is necessary for a simple reason, because each of us, especially the more socially disadvantaged part of the population, is looking forward to the greatest possible state transfers to health care, pension allowance and greater social rights. Otherwise, the proposed budget for the following year will also be at risk, as the lower rates of value added tax would result in a decrease of EUR 250 million in revenue under this heading. I'm asking you where we're going to make up for this fall, where we're going to take it from and who we're going to take it from. We are all very well aware that, unfortunately, the country cannot afford this, but that fact cannot be disputed. Many, in particular those in the economic sphere, believe that this is an additional burden, and the common position of all is that more problems and relaxation can be seen in the taxation of work. Members and Members of the Desus Group agree that labour taxation is a much more complex subject that affects the further development of the economy as a whole. In the Desus Group we always advocate a fair distribution of the tax burden, an additional burden on the account of the socially disadvantaged population alone is not welcome. We would like to be an effective social state with a priority to ensure quality of life and standard of living. The purchasing power of an individual depends primarily on his or her earnings. This time we would like to call for the creation of conditions for more jobs. If we are all active, regardless of age groups, we will contribute in the easiest way to raising domestic consumption, then taxes will not be as big a taboo. Additional attention should also be paid to the question of the category of goods in tax policy formulation, whether it is a luxury good or a daily need for life. Of course, the tax rate in this respect cannot be the same if it comes to buying bread or a new car, for example. For all this reason, Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Social Democrats Group, where in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act of course we welcome the simplifications in the law relating to the calculation and payment of value added tax. In the case of imports of goods for taxable persons, by becoming a VAT charge on imports of goods, only an administrative rule will the recipients of the goods be duly financially burdened because they will not have to finance the import VAT, but will be able to do so at the same time as the calculation, when the application of the deductions is actually prepared. This is a very good solution which the importers will certainly take with great pleasure. We are aware, however, that maintaining a general VAT rate of 22% prior to the 20 % crisis and also increasing the reduced rate from 8.5% to 9% has an impact on the general population, as this actually carries the burden of the crisis over the coming years to all those who are not guilty and responsible for the crisis that has arisen. Therefore, in the debate on the 2016 budget, we also pointed out that this budget has large reserves because banks do not credit economies. If we find that almost 26%, i.e. more than a quarter, of companies in Slovenia have problems with access to funding sources, then this is a huge potential that is not actually exploited. However, the fact is that we have recapitalised banks that capital is substantially more appropriate than all other banks within the Eurogroup, and the fact is that, after all, the economy is creating more deposits than it is currently receiving loans. If we add to this the fact that Slovenian people save twice as many people within the Eurogroup countries, there is a great potential to relax if banks give favourable credit to both businesses and residents in order to be able to resolve their potential housing needs or investments that they have within their own needs. This would significantly increase the inflow to the state budget, as GDP would certainly increase by at least a percentage or two, significantly exceeding the revenue to be applied by value added tax, both at the general level and at the reduced level. So far, this consensus in Slovenia is clearly not that this potential will be exploited, so in the SD we are aware that the value added tax that we are currently raising or maintaining at this level, as it was adopted during the crisis, is a measure that is very important for closing the 2016 and 2017 budgets. For this reason alone, because these two budgets need to be closed, otherwise the fallout would probably be around €250 million, we will support this law in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. However, there will be a need to talk more seriously and soberly about what our banks are serving and yet not the banks that promote economic growth and enable all the people to better achieve their objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In the United Left, we support those changes in tax legislation that either increase the efficiency or fairness of the tax system. In the novel we have before us, we find that the first half does not bring any efficiency, it will not be of any tangible benefit, and the second half is very unfair. Why? This measure changes the VAT rate to a permanent measure and no one, except perhaps a few people in this coalition, can deny the simple fact that VAT is a regressive tax. This means that people with under-average income are disproportionately affected. In fact, if companies are so neutral, the most affected final consumers, they are best known for those who have the least income, say pensioners with 500 euros of pension. If we look at a wider picture of the tax system in Slovenia, we see that these unfair regressive taxes even dominate. We have 39% of indirect taxes, making us among the recorders in the European Union and significantly above average. The question is, how did this happen? If we look at a little history, we see that this is really a class policy of Slovenian political elites. Since 2006, Slovenian political elites have systematically reduced taxes on capital and high income in exchange for increasing indirect taxes such as excise duties and VAT. For example, in 2006, 2 income classes were abolished, capital revenues were exempted from progressive taxation. The company profit tax was reduced from 25 % to 20% in that year. In 2009, the tax on paid wages was abolished; in 2012, Minister Šuštaršič further unloaded and reduced the rate of corporate income tax to 17%. It is no wonder, therefore, that, according to capital taxes and capital revenues, we are in the last place on the European Union's tail itself. Indeed, in the European Union, on average, they collect 20% of these taxes on budget; in Slovenia we collect only 10. As a result of the fall in these taxes, Slovenian political elites on the other hand raised indirect taxes, VAT and excise duties are said to have been socially unfair, but not enough to miss the deficit. There was a steady increase in structural deficits and reduced revenues and deficits were then the reason for the reduction of public sector rights and employment. That's why I'm disappointed that the government and the Mira Cerar coalition here have not gathered the courage to decide to turn. This is an extremely unfair class policy that has a negative impact on both the economy and the purchasing power and social picture in Slovenia, and it would be high time to reverse the situation, to start collecting social and fair taxes, to increase taxes on capital, on capital income, on wealth, on some European comparable level, as proposed in the United Left, but not to cement social taxes and turn them into permanent measures from temporary, crisis measures. This is exactly what the coalition is doing with this novel, so we cannot support it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good day to you all! Dear Secretary of State! The increase in the general rate of value added tax from 20% to 22% and the reduced rate from 8.5 to 9.5 was accepted as temporary in mid-2013, some kind of crisis tax due to the resolution of the current public financial situation. It's true, we've been in a terrible crisis. The measure followed only the objective of major fiscal spills. The increase in value added tax rates was strongly opposed by Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, because it is a measure that has a negative impact on the economy and also on the population. It is an extremely a social tax, a socially unjust measure, as the least-income people who spend virtually all their income on buying the most basic means of life, nutrition, clothing and housing. We expected that, after two years of economic growth, this so-called crisis tax would be abolished by the Government. This would give the economy a much-needed room of manoeuvre, but in fact this temporary measure is now transforming the Government into a permanent measure. Thus, the Government is saying good-bye from the promises made that it will not increase taxes, as in addition to raising the value added tax, the Government is forecasting even more additional burdens on the economy, including raising the corporate tax rates. This approach is wrong, in our opinion, because additional taxes are stifling the economy and will have a negative impact on economic growth. It is true that the proposal of the law brings some administrative burdens on the calculation and payment of value added tax on imports of goods and in this part of the legal solution, of course, we welcome, but at the same time we note that the Government has not proposed a very important administrative burden concerning a larger number of flat-rates when opening the Added Value Tax Act. During the discussion on the labour force, we have pointed out that in the proposal for amendments and the addition of this law, the Government did not include a change in the entry threshold in the system of compulsory value added tax accounting from the current 50,000 to 100,000 euros. Let me remind you, in June last year two laws were passed in the National Assembly, namely the Income Act and the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. We put them in the parliamentary procedure of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats and then Parliamentary Party of the Slovenian People's Party. The proposed laws raised the threshold for flat-rate taxation of smaller entities, legal and natural persons from the current 50,000 to 100,000 euro of annual taxable income. A new, higher threshold for flatlists has been established by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Financial experts point out that it would also be appropriate and necessary to raise the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system from the current EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000, as only in this case will there be a real administrative burden for lower-annual transport operators, and the necessary level of control by the tax authority, which was the aim of raising the threshold for flat-rate taxation. Since it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Council of the European Union and the European Commission to raise the mandatory threshold for entry into the value added tax system, we have already proposed to the Government twice in writing that a proposal for amendments to the Value Added Tax Act should be prepared in this direction and that the necessary consensus of the institutions of the European Union should be obtained for this change. Up until today, unfortunately, we haven't been heard. This simplification would be the most burdensome for both the taxpayers and the tax authority and the supervisory authorities. Members of the New Slovenia Group We will not support or vote against the Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. This is because we have in mind those who live below the threshold of poverty and those who have the lowest pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Hello! A lovely greeting to all present on my behalf as well! The value added tax, if you look at the budget, is actually the highest source of the state budget. The VAT hike in 2013 was some kind of crisis measure at the time. The situation in the country was quite catastrophic, the decline in economic activity was 4.5%, the interest on government bonds was close to 7%, and 130 thousand people were unemployed. The country was on its knees, and action was needed quickly. At that time, we decided that raising VAT was a measure that would have the least adverse effect on the economy. We have been given a lot of criticism, we have heard that it will further reduce consumption, allow or further reduce economic activity – I am glad that we have proved that none of this was true. Fortunately, the situation in the country is much better today. The measures taken in 2012, 2013 and 2014 were obviously the right ones to deliver the results. We record 3% economic growth, interest on 10-year government bonds moving around 1.5%. In short, the situation today is fundamentally different and the ruling coalition should make serious consideration as to whether the level is still needed. Unfortunately, in a year and a half, when you run the government — no, you have not done what our country needs in the future. I have told myself many times that I do not object to these two levels of VAT remaining higher, but I would expect the Government, the government coalition, to do what it has written among the objectives of this law, to quote from the material: "The central objective and purpose of the proposed solution regarding the definition of the already established level of VAT rates is to open the possibility of restructuring tax burdens." That is exactly what we would have to do in the situation we are in. If you have decided to maintain two higher levels forever, for an indefinite period of time, you should at the same time unload something else; unload the work, according to my assessment. Unfortunately, it's not. Your room of manoeuvre by raising this level today and not lowering something else is, of course, significantly decreasing. Our assessment is that the only solution would be the right one. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in our neighborhood, if we look at countries bordering Slovenia, the average rate is even higher than in our country. We are not opposed to this, but we regret that you have not taken advantage of the opportunity that this VAT increase offers and in some other parts have burdened people or the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. A respected secretary with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! The basic objective of the bill is to simplify the charging and payment of VAT on imports of goods, so that VAT will no longer be paid as an import duty on imports of goods, but through VAT to taxable persons, recipients of goods, administratively simplifies the payment of VAT on imports of goods and, above all, makes them financially burdensome, as they will no longer need to finance import VAT. On the basis of data for 2014 and the assumption that the VAT surplus of these taxpayers in the November 2016 account will be half of the VAT paid on imports of goods in November 2016, we estimate that the simplification of the charging and payment of VAT on imports of goods in 2016 will have negative effects on the revenues of the State budget of EUR 32 million. Since it is only a liquidity effect on the revenue of the state budget, which is measured in cash flow, this will not reduce the VAT accrued. However, a transitional arrangement is also laid down for cases where goods will be imported prior to the entry into force of this amendment and VAT will be submitted in July 2016 when a new regime is in place. The new regime will thus apply to imported goods for which the VAT accounting obligation arose after 30 June 2016. In view of the necessary adjustments to the information systems of the taxpayers and the tax authority in relation to the amended method of accounting and payment of VAT on imports of goods, it is envisaged that the amended scheme will apply from 1 July 2016. We certainly welcome this as a positive measure in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, which will increase the liquidity of a particular segment of the economy. According to the customs declarations for November 2013 and November 2014, it appears that monthly about 3 000 importers are identified for VAT purposes who, under the current regime, pay up to EUR 60 million per month for imports of goods, which they will be able to charge under the law through VAT and will not need liquidity funds for payment of VAT directly upon importation of goods. In doing so, the declarant will be able to have a smaller guarantee, there will be no need to protect the VAT on imports and consequently the costs of the guarantee will be reduced. The law also transposes VAT rates that are already in place and is thus transferred from the Law on the Implementation of the Budget to the Value Added Tax Act. This will make the VAT rise permanent. This fulfils the Government's objective of replacing temporary measures with permanent measures. Of course, in the future, we expect the SMC to reduce the tax burden of the economy by reducing the tax burden of work or by restructuring taxes. The latter objective and purpose of the proposed solution in relation to the definition of already established VAT rates is to open the possibility of restructuring tax burdens by establishing a target, appropriate and internationally comparable burden-sharing between consumption, income and property, following the basic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which are set out in the Stability Programme, based on the promotion of economic growth and fiscal consolidation. However, it is also an integral part of the measures included in the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017 to take account of the increase in VAT rates under this Act. It should be pointed out that if the current rates in the VAT Act were not regulated, the level of VAT rates would return to the level before the amendment in 2016, which is before 1. Seven. 2013, which would mean a lower VAT revenue of 200 million euros per year. This would result in a one-month delay in VAT payment in 2016 of €230 million and an additional €20 million in 2017. Thus, it would not be possible to close the budgets for 2016 and 2017, which would have a lot of consequences for a country that we do not want. For this reason, the SMC Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment and its amendment to Article 2 of the bill, which is published on the e-club. With regard to this amendment, I fully recognize that it has been incorrectly tabled, so we will not discuss or vote on it. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments may only be made to the amended draft law in respect of the articles to which the mother's working body has accepted amendments. The SDS Group wants to regulate the content relating to Article 1 of the draft law, which is to amend Article 41 of the current law governing the value added tax rate in Article 2, which relates to the amendment of Article 77 of the law governing the payment of value added tax in the national budget. No amendments have been adopted by the home working body before Article 1 and therefore cannot be tabled at the meeting of the assembly to this Article of the amendments. The SDS delegation therefore tabled an amendment which could only be tabled under Article 1 to Article 2, to which it does not belong, since only amendments relating to the amendment of Article 77 of the current law could be made to this Article. There is no basis for such conduct in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. During the second reading, the SDS Amendment itself, with virtually the same content, submitted a commercially appropriate and correct submission to Article 1, but was not adopted at the meeting of the parent working body. If the debate and vote on that amendment were to be allowed, this would be an important precedent for the continuation of the work of the National Assembly relating to the second reading of the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly on the supplementary proposal of the law. This would practically mean that almost no restrictions on the application of amendments would apply, thus circumventing the decisions taken at the meeting of the home working body. I continue with this practice and yesterday's decision, but at the same time I note that it is in line with yesterday's decision and that it is consistent with established parliamentary practice, i.e. a substantively similar situation took place at the 13th meeting on 24 April 2013 in the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. The then coalition wanted to amend Article 2 of the amended draft law, which amended Article 6 of the current law, but no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body to this article and could therefore not be amended at the meeting of the assembly. Therefore, the coalition has tabled an amendment to Article 3, which has amended Article 7 of the current law and has wanted to regulate the content of Article 6 of the current law in this article. The Vice-President of the National Assembly, Roman Tomc, who chaired the meeting, found that the amendment was incorrectly tabled and decided not to be discussed or voted on by the National Assembly. The additional argument for such practice was general legal principles and within them the institute of estopel, under which the investor's previous legal practice commits that it cannot demand something that is evident or manifestly opposed, and finally violates the basic principles of nomotechnics. On the basis of all the above, I note that, in the second reading of the amendment, no additional draft law has been tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Public Finance Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman. And my friend, I'm sorry. A colleague — How? Peter Pocacar, I'm sorry. This will be presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! With the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Finance Balance Act adopted by this National Assembly on 16 December 2014, almost a year ago, the issue of student work has been significantly regulated by our assessment. How? The student’s work involved the payment of contributions in compulsory pension and disability insurance, in health insurance, which means that we have significantly raised the level of social security of students who, through the student’s work, will further take care of social security as they will also benefit from this title from pension insurance. In the process of coordinating these changes in student work arrangements, students' representatives, the Student Organisation of Slovenia, were concerned that the introduction of social insurance contributions would cost more work for employers and that this would result in a drop in student work, which was a cause of fear for the Student Organisation that students would no longer be able to do this work. That is why an agreement was reached that, on the basis of changes in the student work, there would be a significant decline in the scope of the student work in order to lower the student work price next January, if I may say so. Fortunately, our expectations, statistics, data from the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia show that, with the change in student work arrangements on February 1st, there was no significant decline in student work, with the exception of those few seasonal fluctuations. That is why, in agreement with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, we keep the burden of student work at the current level. The bill therefore retains the amount of the concession fee in the student work, from which scholarships are also significantly financed. The bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act before you preserves the current regulation and tax burden of student work as currently in force. This is based on an agreement with the Student Organisation of Slovenia signed at the time of the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act. The bill thus preserves the social security of students, maintains a minimum hourly rate, which ensures the legal safety of students, and, above all, retains the amount of the concession fee, which will also provide partial scholarships. In accordance with the above, we propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. In the framework of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we are at the 37th urgent meeting of the 13th 11. 2015 As a parent labour body, they considered the proposal for a law amending the Public Finance Balance Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The Committee also received an opinion from the competent Commission of the Council of State and the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, explained in a supplementary explanation that the amendment retains the amount and manner of dividing the concession fee from the temporary and occasional work of students and students in 2015. The amendment was prepared on the basis of an agreement between the President of the Government, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities and the Student Organisation of Slovenia of 27. 11. 2014 and was coordinated in the preparatory process with the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service had no comments on the proposal, and the competent commission of the State Council also supported the proposal. The debate raised the issue of current data, the decline in the temporary and occasional work of students and students in 2015 and why the proposed solution, which permanently sets the amount and the way in which the concession fee is distributed, is regulated in this law. The representative of the competent ministry explained that the scope of the temporary and occasional work of students and students in 2015 was not reduced by more than 15%, and the solution proposed at this point represented a nomotechnically easier way of regulating the legal regime. Within the framework of system legislation, it will be placed in a comprehensive regulation of all forms of work. After the discussion, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill together and adopted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Say good-bye again! As of 1 February 2015, the last amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act introduced the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance from the temporary and occasional work of students and students. This has also been adjusted accordingly by the amount and the way in which the concession fee is distributed, making the overall burden of the temporary and civil work of students and students comparable to other forms of work. In view of the student organisation's fear that, as a result, the withdrawal of the above-mentioned contributions from the student's work would result in a drastic decline in demand for this type of work, an agreement between the government representative, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities and the Student Organisation of Slovenia was reached at the stage of the negotiation of the law. Thus, in the current scheme, a buffer was introduced to reduce the concession fee in 2016 if the drop in student work was higher than 15%. According to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the scope of the student work was not reduced by more than 15% in terms of the period before and after the implementation of the new concession fee scheme. Reduction between 1 February and 31 December 8 in this year was 8.8%. In view of the above, there is no reason to reduce the amount of the concession fee in the coming and subsequent years. In addition, if concession fees were to be reduced, the latter would be burdened by the state budget, as it should cover as much as EUR 23.5 million, as much as would result from concession fees to the budget fund of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities, which is intended to provide sufficient funding for scholarships. It is also proposed to be coordinated with the representatives of students and students, and we will also support this law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will support the proposal for a bill amending the Law on Public Finance Balance, as we note that the amendment on the amendments to the Law on Public Finance Balance before this Act has been introduced to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance from temporary and temporary work for students and students has shown that interest in student work has not fallen, which means, on the other hand, that we have extremely good students and students who are obviously prepared to do much more besides learning or study to plan their career path in the future. Given that this student decline was not greater than 15 per cent of the students' work, the law should be amended and the higher fee should be maintained by the concessions paid by the student organisations in order to continue to maintain the grant fund within the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family, and that amount should be reduced if the law that we are considering is not proposed would be as much as 23.5 million. If we want to maintain the scope of the grant, as in the current form, this amount should certainly be replaced by budgetary resources. Thus, this law also significantly facilitates the closure of the budget for 2016 and 2017, so that the law has positive effects, both for the sake of maintaining the scholarship policy and for facilitating the closure of the budget and that is why we will also support this law, as I said in the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! We are reopening the infamous ZUJF, the Law for the Balance of Public Finances, which with a deep austerity cut caused tremendous social, economic and other harm and injustice. Even this part that we are opening today is not completely without problems. In fact, this change introduced the payment of contributions for pension and disability and student health insurance. This has significantly increased the taxation of student work, which is approaching the taxation of other forms of work. As a result, the cash registers have been filled and the rights of students have not been adequately increased. In fact, student work, despite this change, still represents one of the most reprehensible forms of work on the Slovenian labour market. Therefore, it is common for students to have multiple jobs at the same time, without any rights, and may be dismissed tomorrow. They often even have all the elements of regular employment, but they do not enjoy any of the rights enjoyed by their fellow workers, even though they are now comparatively taxed. Therefore, when we think about taxation of student work, we should also think about the social rights of this population, which, hand to heart, is one of the most pauperised in this country. It's probably the first generation after World War II that's going to live worse than its parents. At the systemic level, we should urgently start by taking decisive measures to recruit young people, to resolve their social situation, to regulate housing policy, to allow them to no longer be forced to stay at their mother's hotel. A special problem that could be tackled immediately is the provision of student work or student services. They do nothing but mediate, and they generate great profits. Of each salary, the student services account for 3.8 per cent of the student’s income. And these 3.8 percent could be earmarked for scholarships, for student homes, for social assistance to young people, for youth housing, but because of the indecisiveness of governments, we leave them to private, student services, which are essentially an intervention agency to make high profits with them. Therefore, on this occasion, I call on the coalition and the government to start regulating the status and rights of students with such measures. If they are taxed at a comparable level to other forms of work, it would be fair to have a similar high level of rights and to allow this generation a decent life in our country. In view of the fact that the concession we are considering today is also funded by the scholarship policy and that, when these revenues are lost in the budget, this would probably mean a further reduction of the scholarships already falling, we will not oppose today's change in the United Left, but I hope that you will take our calls and concerns seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! At the end of last year, the National Assembly, with the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, regulated the area of temporary and occasional work of students. A major innovation in this area was that the temporary and occasional work of students and students under the new regime is included in pension and disability insurance. From 1 February 2015, contributions to health and pension insurance and insurance for injuries at work and occupational diseases shall be paid for the work of the students and students and shall be granted proportional rights under this Title, i.e. pension period. From the point of view of the payment of contributions and partly the rights arising therefrom, student work is now largely equivalent to a fixed-term work relationship. The amendment set out the minimum hourly rate for the student work at 4.5 euros gross and 3.8 euros net. As a result of the contribution of the student work, the amount of the concession fee was reduced from 23 per cent to 16 per cent, with a safeguard being established that the amount of the concession fee would be 1 per cent. 1. 2016 will further reduce if such a new regime results in a drop in student work of more than 15%. Since the decline in student work does not reach this percentage, that is 15 per cent, the need for such a guardian, which is now being deleted by the amendment of this law that we are considering today, is being deleted. The new Slovenia supports the proposed amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, which actually preserves the content of the law, in particular taking into account the fact that the concession fee funds are allocated to the main part of scholarships for students and students. For these purposes, we need as much resources as possible, because, on the one hand, we encourage talented students and students and, on the other hand, scholarships are important material income for students and students who are actually allowed education by this income, I mean, here on state scholarships. In recent years of economic crisis, many families have faced material hardships, which have already reflected opportunities for education of children, students and students, due to a number of corporate bankruptcys and a general decline in real-sector jobs. We also particularly welcome the promotion of the education of students in deficient professions through scholarship policy. This year's school year, the first thousand scholarships have been granted for deficient professions, which will certainly reflect the greater interest of young people in certain professions who have almost died in recent years due to errors and deviations in the education system, although there is an interest in employment in certain professions in the labour market. As we say, we will support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Have a nice hello again. We will also support the amendment in our parliamentary group. We appeal to the Government or the competent ministry to start to regulate things not in the Public Finance Balance Act, which is in some way a temporary anti-crisis law, but that those things which it thinks should be introduced as permanent begin to be regulated in systemic laws. As we say, we will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment of the Law on Public Finance Balance is prepared on the basis of an agreement between the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Student Organisation of Slovenia signed in November 2014 when the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance Balance was adopted, i.e. before the meeting in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal amends the law to amend the part referring to the amount and division of the concession fee in order to maintain the amount and method of division of the 2015 concession fee and thus does not give rise to negative public financial effects and additional negative effects on the labour market that would have occurred in 2016 in the event that the ZUJF does not change. Article 130 of the ZUJF provides that from 1 February 2015 to 1 February 2015 a 16 per cent concession fee shall continue to be paid from the temporary and occasional part of the students and students. 1. 2016 at 9.59 per cent. Thus, the concession fee would be reduced in order to reduce the share of the levy allocated to the budget fund of the Ministry in order to ensure sufficient funding for grants, from 8.41 percentage points in 2015 to 2 percentage points in 2016, which would, according to an estimate, reduce the revenue of the budget fund in 2016 by EUR 23 and a half million. The reduction in the amount of the concession fee was thus envisaged as a fuse in the event of a reduction in the amount of the temporary and occasional part of the students and students by more than 15 per cent and, according to the latest data of the Financial Administration, the volume decreased by less than 15 per cent and, therefore, in accordance with the above-mentioned agreement, the deletion of Article 130, paragraph 2, and Article 130, paragraph D, paragraph 3, of the ZUJF is envisaged. The Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the Law on Amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the ministries! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance is once again one of the laws that we adopt under urgent procedure. The proposed amendment retains the level and method of dividing the concession fee of the student and student work in 2015. At the time of the negotiations, at the request of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, a fuse was introduced to reduce the amount of concession fee from 1 January 2016 if the drop in student work was higher than 15 per cent. According to the Ministry, by the end of August 2015 student work had decreased by 8.8%. While student services provide a slightly different indication, the student employment rate decreased by 13 percent in the first nine months. Unfortunately, the Ministry, with more up-to-date data on the Financial Committee, did not have the proposed amendment, but was in line with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which is important. We do not oppose the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but we believe that it is wrong that this content is regulated in the Public Finance Balance Act. It would be good to see the issue of student work finally settled in the system law, so we will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendment could not be tabled at the assembly meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. This is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the sale of the State’s financial assets for 2016 and 2017. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The material under consideration is part of the 2016 and 2017 budget documents. You shall adopt a decree on the basis of Article 80 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the Government, in the process of preparing the draft budget, shall draw up a proposal for a programme for the sale of national financial and real property for the future budget period. In the past years, the National Assembly, by decree, confirmed the sale of individual capital shares until the State's investment management regime changed in 2010, first with the Capital Investment Management Act and later with the Slovenian State Holding Act, which adopted a special decision on the sale of capital shares in 15 companies. In doing so, the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted on the basis of the provisions of the law this year and there is no longer a need for a specific conclusion on the sale of shares and shares of companies. For the next budget period, the need for the Government to propose to the National Assembly for the first time a special decree on the financial assets sales programme in the form of claims. These claims are based on different headings: unpaid tax debt, claims for reimbursement of State aid granted, regression claims, cashed State guarantees and issued loans or subsidies in previous years. In particular, in the process of restructuring companies and having access to capital investments, the Republic of Slovenia is faced with the issue of dealing with claims owed to companies as debtors. This issue is particularly relevant for the regular activities of DUTB and partly for SDH in the context of the active financial restructuring of enterprises. In view of the activities envisaged, the primary purpose of the proposed programme for the sale of state-owned assets is to create a legal basis so that the Republic of Slovenia can also join the joint sales of those companies to which it has claims through the sale of claims. This would allow sales procedures to be carried out as smoothly as possible. Other shareholders, DUTB, SDH, creditors’ banks and so on generally not only sell their own share in a particular company but sell the whole company together with the claims. This list, which is the subject of the decree, does not contain any claims made by the Republic of Slovenia to companies in insolvency proceedings, since in these cases claims are treated under insolvency law. The sale of claims cannot be effected solely on the basis of the proposed decision. A further procedure requires the establishment of a commission for the execution and supervision of a particular sales procedure, the Commission prepares a proposal for an individual sales programme and it is only at this stage that preparatory actions are carried out, such as the specific valuation of the assets, the definition of values, legal bases and methods of sale. Such a prepared individual sales programme is forwarded to the Ministry and only when the Government decides on a particular sales programme can the sale process actually be carried out. The proposed decree is therefore only an initial step in order for these procedures to begin at all. The amounts referred to in the list shall be indicative and shall represent the state of claim at 31. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The total nominal value is 42 million and a half, of which 15 million are State aid, 5.1 million are tax debt, 19.8 million are cashed guarantees under the Guarantee Scheme Act and the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs Act and 2.2 million are from other titles. The list includes claims on companies identified as portfolios under the State Capital Investment Management Strategy and private-owned investments. The majority of claims, more than 70%, represent the total exposure of the State and the bad bank. In short, it is claims that the Ministry is actively taking an approach to their recovery and management and that the sale is one of the possible forms of their redemption. We suggest that the National Assembly approves the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! At its 15th meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the Proposal for a Decree on the Sales Programme of State Assets for 2016 and 2017 submitted by the Government. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21. Ten. 2015, which had no comments on the proposal for a decision. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council Commission, which supports the proposal for a decree. The representative of the applicant presented the primary purpose of the proposed State Property Sales Programme as establishing a legal basis for the sale of the State's claims, so that the envisaged capital investment sales procedures of the State could be carried out as smoothly as possible. The list of items contains claims made by the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of tax debt, paid guarantees or guarantees, credits, granted State aid and other legal transactions. The amounts indicated in the list shall be informative and shall represent the state of claims of the Republic of Slovenia on day 31. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The exact amounts of the claims will be determined in the preparation of a specific programme for the sale of the State's assets, in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Some members of the Committee had comments on the way claims were sold and requested further clarifications. The criteria under which a list of the sales programme was established and the assessment of the effects of sales and whether any revenue under this Title is foreseen in the 2016 and 2017 budgets were missing. The Committee's debate also took place in conjunction with specific cases in the proposed list. The representatives of the proposer replied to all the questions raised and explained that no revenue is foreseen for the coming financial years under this heading, as there is uncertainty about the realisation of the revenues generated by the sale of these financial claims. However, these amounts are recorded in the balance sheet and when they are realised, this will be shown in the income and expenditure statements. In view of the fact that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has not adopted any amendments to the proposal for a decision as its parent labour force, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision on the Programme for the sale of State resources for 2016 and 2017 be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the Proposal for a Decree on the Programme for the Sale of State Assets for 2016 and 2017, as this is a situation that has arisen within companies that are somehow under the control of either the Slovenian State Holding or the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In view of the fact that the State has in this title either a tax dog or a claim on the guarantees and guarantees paid, credits, State aid and other legal transactions, it is reasonable to join in and, of course, to enable the collection of these claims to the greatest extent possible for the benefit of the budget or, consequently, the common public finances. Certainly in this story, Cimos, a share company, with a total of €42 million,543 thousand for sale, the share of Cimos 29 million zeros is 29 thousand euros, which in fact represents the state aid granted to Cimos at the time of the restructuring in order to maintain its production in order to preserve buyers and, above all, jobs. The fact is that we obviously do not have a sufficiently efficient system of state-owned enterprise management in Slovenia, and even though this State aid was assessed as sufficient, the company was in a situation where it first met with a voluntary enforcement procedure and after transferring this claim to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, even a forced settlement was made, which could be a very demanding process, especially with regard to customers who are the most prominent European companies than Audi, Mercedes, and of course BMW and other car brands, which, if production is not organised, would certainly seek an opportunity with other suppliers. This is one of the procedures that we in the Group of Social Democrats have warned us about a few years ago that the worst could happen to us, and at this point this decree proves that we have come to a stage when state aid was obviously unused or the process has gone completely into other waters. This is why this decision is being resolved, which is to be resolved, but the worst thing will be if we lose in the long run just such strong companies, which are extremely important for Slovenia, but we are afraid that the matter is already so delinquent that it will be difficult to restore the confidence of customers in the future. In fact, however, everything in our power and even in the power of the DUTB to stop such a process must be done to prevent and because it is already in the process of selling to the DUTB, but it will also be found for the entire customer undertaking, which will have a sufficiently high level of confidence in all companies for which Cimos supplies its work. A similar story can be found in the other companies on this list, which make up a total of €42 million of claims to be sold; but this is the task that the DUB must perform and we expect it to succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The proposal for a decree ahead of us weighs 42 million euros. In most cases it is a small claim from the Republic of Slovenia to companies that have been created with the sum of guarantees. On the list there are two major claims to be noted. This is a good EUR 29 million claim on Cimos and 1.2 million claims on Maribor foundry. If we go to Cimos. There is no point in losing words about this company, which has recently hired 7,000 workers. Under the criteria set out in the Investment Management Strategy, countries should be defined as an important undertaking. Cimosa's problem, we know how it started – with a tycoon takeover, then with overinvestment in a core activity that was absolutely too big for Cimosa's market potential. With this, Cimos is good evidence of how the crisis in Slovenia has also generated structural errors in the euro area. In fact, these errors have made the microeconomic decisions that were at odds with all legalities rational overnight. The crisis in Slovenia was above average due to the fact that we entered the European area at the peak of the conjunctura, and the additional problem was the policy of Banka Slovenije and the then Janša government, which did not respond with countercyclical measures, but with procyclical tax and fiscal policy, the overheating into the economy was further accelerated. This process is described in the report on the causes of the bank's capital deficit, which was prepared by Banka Slovenije on 2 May. But Cimos is still in trouble because of this, and he's still in the restructuring process. This 29 million is the remainder of the total assets of the Republic of Slovenia that have not been converted into equity shares. EUR 29 million is a huge amount for a company in difficulty, so we are asked the following question: To whom does the Government intend to sell the claim to Cimos, and how will this affect its restructuring? The answer to this is not in the ruling before us, and the ruling looks like a bank exchange for a government that can sell this claim at any price, under any conditions, with any consequences for the affected companies. As in that notable decision on the privatisation of 15 companies, there are no indicative sales objectives. There are no guidelines in the decree to ensure that the sale of the claim will contribute to the restructuring of companies. There are no conditions in the decree concerning the price to be achieved by the Government. In the United Left we do not intend to offer alibis and Bianca menus for privatisation. We are convinced that the State should convert the remaining claims into equity shares, Cimos should manage as an important or even strategic company, which is its size, rather than being privatised through a bad bank. Finally, the amendment of the Bad Bank Act would now give SDH a preliminary right whereby SDH, as a state-owned holding company, could concentrate the majority stake in Cimos and contribute to the restructuring of this company, but this decree does not imply this. This decree does not indicate the fate of this company, nor does it ask how the government will contribute to its restructuring, job conservation and business preservation. This decree therefore does not meet both procedural and substantive conditions for support, so of course we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today's proposal for a decree on the State Assets Sales Programme is worth a total of €42 million, and the government's content of the proposal for a decree is prepared on four sides. On four sides, it says, one page for a little more than 10 million! The explanation itself contains some general explanations. In the course of the debate on the draft decision on the home working body, representatives of the Government and Members of the ruling coalition explained that the material was prepared in accordance with the Public Finance Act and that representatives of the Government would explain the content of the proposal for a decree in more detail at the meeting of the National Assembly. We hope that today we will really hear detailed explanations of the individual items of the proposed decision, because the written material provided by our group is so flawed that it is simply not possible to decide on the content, and of course the Government has only had 5 minutes today. What is understood from the material submitted is the claims of the Republic of Slovenia from various headings: from the title of the tax debt, paid guarantees and other legal transactions by state on 31. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At least what the Government should explain in its paper is the origin of the individual claim and the reason why it was included in the sales list. Only in such a case would the National Assembly hold a substantial substantive debate on the usefulness of listing the individual claim on the sales list at the home working body and now at the plenary session. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are also expected to provide an explanation from the Government, for which there is in fact no business option, what are we expecting from individual sales, that is, whether claims will be sold at nominal value or whether a discounted value is expected to be deducted and, if discounted, at what reduced price, claims are expected to be redeemed. In this case, therefore, part of the claim will be written off. In this regard, we are interested to know whether the Government will find those responsible, i.e. those with a name and surname that caused the taxpayers harm. That's what we're talking about. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats underline that it must be public, that is, taxpayer money, especially under the scrutiny and with precise explanations when it comes to dealing with it. Given that the Government has not explained today all the details that it has in some way promised on the Committee on Finance and that the Government has virtually no time and virtually no business option, we will vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urša Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello again! By decree on the State-owned property sales programme, the country's financial assets programme is established for sale or other forms of disposal in 2016 and 2017. According to the Public Finance Act, state property is owned by the State. In addition to money, the financial assets also represent debt securities, shares, shares in the capital of legal persons and other investments in legal persons, including state claims. The latter is also the case. The Public Finance Act provides that the Government, in the process of preparing the draft budget, shall draw up a proposal for a programme for the sale of state-owned assets, which, together with the draft budget, shall submit to the National Assembly for admission. The Government must report to the National Assembly on the completion of the individual sales programme. As the claims sales programme has not been prepared or the sale of claims has not been planned for the previous financial year, it does not contain the material of the report. In accordance with the law, the annual sales programme shall specify a list of assets or claims, which shall also include the proposed text. All other aspects of the sale of claims, which do not contain the material under consideration, fall within further stages of the availability of the claims of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the Act implementing the individual claim procedure, the Government shall decide by adopting an individual sales programme, which shall include: the definition of the objectives and the reasons for the sale, the legal basis of the sale, the description of the subject matter, the definition of the method of sale which ensures equal treatment and transparency of the procedure, and the explanation of the preparatory actions. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained to us that when preparing the list of claims, the basic criteria for SDH activity and the activity of DUTB were the basic criteria. Thus, the claims made by the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the tax debt, the guarantees paid, the subsidies granted, the loans granted and similar to the relevant companies to be dealt with by SDH and DUTB in their activities. In addition, other claims for paid guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia under sectoral legislation are added as, in the case of these claims, the Republic of Slovenia is also faced with joint procedures for the sale of companies and claims that are not led or are not led by SDH and DUTB, but by other creditors. The estimated amounts of purchases at this stage cannot be fixed as they are determined on the basis of the valuation carried out in subsequent stages of the disposal of claims, within the framework of the preparatory actions provided for in the Public Finance Act. For that reason, the purchases are also not foreseen in the draft budget. In the SMC Group, we support the solution proposal proposed by this Decision by allowing for a more active approach of the country in business restructuring procedures and better coordination of procedures, together with SDH and DUTB, which are also stakeholders in individual companies where the Republic of Slovenia has financial claims. These procedures follow the economic objective of the sale of claims, which depends on the manner or type of insurance of these claims, and what is the likelihood of payment of claims from the future operation of the individual company. For these reasons, we will support the proposal for a regulation on the Sales Programme for 2016 and 2017 in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is a decree on the State's sales programme for 2016 and 2017. We will not support this proposal for a decision on the sale of assets in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group; we will not support it for a number of reasons. Initially, we would like to stress that it is unheard of and extremely unrealistic for the Government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance to draw up a decree on the sale of assets for 2016 and 2017 totalling 42 million and a half euros on two sides. We have already warned Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party about all these matters on the Home Committee, but the Ministry of Finance did not take into account our proposals and comments. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance said that this was a practice from the past years, that the material should be prepared in the same way. Thus, we have learned that the sale of the country's assets for 2014 and 2015 was made only for one claim. Today, however, we have a proposal to sell claims totalling 42 million and a half euros. We note that this has already become a practice, that the materials prepared by the Government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance are incomplete, empty and we can actually question the credibility of this and ask what is behind the sale of these claims. Forty-two million euros and a half and not a single word are the criteria on which the government of Mira Cerar decided to place these claims on the list! It should be said that these claims derive from tax debt. We know that the current tax debt in Slovenia amounts to €1.4 billion, and the question is on the basis of which criteria the Government and the Ministry of Finance decided to include these claims of 42 million. In fact, it is not stated how these claims will be sold, whether public tenders will be published for this purpose, which buyers will be sought for these claims, whether an active strategic owner will be sought or sold to a friend. The fact that something can't be right in this list and most of all will be in the eyes is the claim on Cimos of more than EUR 29 million. In what way will this claim be sold, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee could not tell us. Cimos has often appeared in the media in recent years. We have observed that the Bank's Claims Management Company has hired a so-called House Adviser, Admetam, who is to be closely linked to the members of the DutB Management Board. According to some information, Cimos is expected to pay more than EUR 250 000 per month for the consultancy costs mentioned to Admetam. In doing so, it must be said that this list of claims is likely to be followed by a revision of the DUTB Act, namely, that the DUTB should redirect its core activity, which it has so far had, the sale of claims, to the restructuring of companies. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the purchase of claims and the subsequent conversion of claims into equity may result in a certain buyer having a significant share in the company and thus management. We estimate that in such a way of selling and doing such work there may be damage to state property. Once again, we cannot support such a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We estimate that these matters could also go to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Say good-bye again! Hello, Vice President! Your Honor! The proposal for a programme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2016 and 2017 is an integral part of the budget package of legislation. Initially, I would say that the country's claims are worth around €42.5 million in total, and every time we touch a specific number, things get a little more complicated. Probably not everyone knows the list of claims, which is the mandatory part of the annex. The names of companies are irrelevant to some, not only the fact that the financial problems of these companies mean to their employees, but therefore the financial amount will still be in the eyes. However, each individual sales procedure must necessarily have a precise sales programme, with precise objectives, reasons, methods produced and prices on the possibility of sale. So obvious that something is being sold just like that, without specific criteria, they don't stick. It is true, however, that this is decided by the Government, which reports to the National Assembly on the completion of the individual sales programme. The opposition would probably want much more time for a single society. Similarly, when the draft decree was already being considered on the home labour body, we were not surprised by the obvious, as they were very similar to the concerns when we discussed the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy. The proposal for a decree also contains capital investments which are defined as portfolios in that strategy. In the Desus Group, we actively participated in the design of the strategy and made great efforts to bring the material under the roof. We must admit that the task is not simple, so it is more than a prerequisite for thinking and analysis. We are also aware that the proposal for a decree contains previous commitments, such as a list of 15 companies for sale, from 2013 to be carried out to the end. We also point out once again what we have been repeating for a long time that in the Desus Group we do not support reckless privatisation or the sale of state property at all costs, just like that. In the Desus Group, it seems logical and only right that the country, as the owner of the assets, has a clear vision of what it will do in the future with bad claims, especially those that have been difficult to recover for a long time. In this case, the rules laid down in the Public Finance Act must be followed. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the proposed decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a decree, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24. AND 25. It's a day's work. Following an agreement at the meeting of the College of the President of the State for 2016; under those items of the agenda, we will carry out joint introductory presentations on: Proposal for a decree on the management plan of the State for State administration authorities, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2016; Proposal for a decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2016; Proposal for a ruling on the State's real property management plan for the Court of Auditors for 2016; Proposal for a decision on the conduct of the State's real estate management plan for the State of Slovenia since 2017; Proposal for a decision on the Court of Auditors for the Court of Slovenia for the financial year 2016; Proposal for a decision on the conduct of the State's real assets from the Court of Auditors of Slovenia to the Court of First Instance of Slovenia for the Court of Slovenia for the Court of Slovenia for the year 2017; Proposal for the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice for the financial year 2016; Proposal for the preliminary ruling of Slovenia for the Court of the Court of Slovenia for the Court of Slovenia for the Court of Slovenia for the Court of Justice of Justice for the year 2016; Proposals for decisions have been tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to further explain the motions for resolutions. Janku Burgaru, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a decree on the State's real estate management plan for state administration authorities, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2016 and 2017. This part would be presented separately and the second part in short in the second part. The proposed Decision for 2016 and 2017 shall be adopted on the basis of Article 11, paragraph 2 and 5, as regards real estate and the Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and Article 13, paragraph 3 and 6, of the Law on Real Estate or Article 13 of the Regulation on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities as regards the admission procedure. The Real Estate Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities in Article 11, paragraphs 5 and 6, of Article 13, provides that the Real Estate Management Plan shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget. The proposed plan for 2016 and 2017 includes the following: a real estate plan, a land-use plan, a building-use plan, a land-use plan and a building plan, and a part related to movable property, i.e. a real estate acquisition plan and a real estate management plan. Taking into account the real estate management plan and the real estate plan, 27 million EUR 635 000 748 is planned in 2016. On the other hand, during the same period, we are also planning purchases of assets of EUR 104 million 779 thousand 642. In the part where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in the revenue of the State budget, these are indicative financial consequences, which will depend on the success or implementation of the planned real-estate management procedures. Individual budget users or ministries and government services are also responsible for the compliance of these financial implications with the budget balance. With regard to 2017, it takes into account the real estate management plan and the current picture and plan for the management of movable property in 2017, we plan for EUR 7 million 859 thousand 287 of sales revenue and for the same period also purchases of assets amounting to EUR 54 million 271 thousand 965. The second part relates to the proposal for a decree on the State's real estate plan for other public authorities where the Ministry of Public Administration has collected all proposals for bodies, namely the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Ombudsman. Summa summarum's financial implications for the state budget mean, taking into account the country's real estate management plans submitted at the time of the preparation of the 2016 state budget, that is to say for the purchases of movable assets, the use of EUR 368,000 and the real estate availability of EUR 70 000,891. For 2017, these amounts for the purchase of movable assets amount to €150,000 and real-estate income of €289 000 263. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The motions for resolutions were addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. In order to present the Committee's reports, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 13th session. 11. 2015 examined the proposals for decisions on the State's real estate management plan for State administration authorities, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and for 2016 and 2017, and for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. Proposals are in accordance with the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities to the National Assembly 25. 9. 2015 mediated by the Government. The representative of the applicant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, explained in a supplementary explanation that the basic proposals for decisions are adopted on the basis of Article 11, paragraph 2 and 5, and the above-mentioned law and Article 13, paragraph 3 and 6, of the Law and Article 13 of the Regulation on the real property of the State and of the self-government local communities, which specify the procedure for preparation and adoption. Article 11, paragraph 1, and Article 13, paragraph 1, of the Act lays down the content of the State's actual assets management plans for other national authorities and provides for a procedure for their adoption in Article 11, paragraph 3, and Article 13, paragraph 4 thereof. In accordance with that legal basis, the proposals for decisions were forwarded to the National Assembly together with the draft state budget for 2016 and 2017. The Legislative and Legal Service did not have general comments on most of the proposals, but it noted some of the references in the preamble and ambiguity in the text for which it had announced that it would remove them in cooperation with the proposer in the final edition of the decrees before publication in the Official Journal or with the amendments tabled. There was no discussion at the Committee's meeting on the proposals for decisions. Under the second paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure, a supplementary text, which includes the amendments adopted and which form an integral part of the report, is prepared and, with regard to all other proposals for resolutions, the Committee invites the National Assembly to adopt them in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Good-bye. Thanks again for saying that. At this point, we are considering 11 decisions on the real-estate management plan. The decisions relate to movable and immovable property practically for all authorities in this country, from the state administration, the judiciary, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the PKK and everything else we have in this country. However, when we review the material, the question arises to us what this treatment is for. In fact, there are documents in the material containing lists of movables and real estates that the authorities will buy or sell, but these documents are impossible to understand exactly what this is about. It is impossible to determine the reason for the purchase or sale of a property, nor any real estate. If we are to determine what real estates are involved, we should look for the property for each individual piecemeal number and land book to determine what this property represents, but the reasons for purchase or sale would not yet be discovered after such research. The other problem we see is reality. If we look at, say, a decree for government authorities for 2016 is the sale of property worth poor €90 million and the purchase of real estate in poor €50 million. As already stated, why would we sell first is why we will sell for 90 million assets and why we will buy 50 million assets, which is simply not something we can understand. We can only wish that the decree included, for example, the sale of extended police administrations and stations and replacements with new, more appropriate capacities, but probably we can only wish for it. Indeed, it is a list of wishes that remain unfulfilled every year after reviewing past plans; unfulfilled because they are so miserable. If we just look at the data for 2013. In 2013, government authorities were expected to purchase 30 million euro in real estate, and in fact 2 million euro in real estate were realised. That is to say, out of €30 2 million, a percentage of 7.6% realisation. In doing so, of course, we can ask ourselves what will actually happen to the additional funds that the Government earmarked for the police in 2016. From the 2016 decree, for example, we can understand that the police will finally get the new 133 vehicles because, as we know, they are driving in a lot of long-term vehicles. But again, in 2013, the realisation of the purchase of motor vehicles was 14.2%. If we translate this statistics into 2016, it means that the police will not get 133 vehicles, as planned, but only 19. And yet again, why the realization is so miserable, it is simply not possible to understand from these documents, which the Ministry has attached. Such a low reality is totally incomprehensible, even in the fact that the Minister devotes a great deal of attention to real estate in this mandate. Real estate management is even his priority area. We therefore expect that at least the most important items, which, for example, touch the police, will be realised this time more than 14.2%, as it has been in the past. But, as we say, in the United Left, we are not so sure what the real purpose of dealing with these documents is. Therefore, we place our trust in the Ministry, so that it can start to regulate the area differently. If the purpose of this consideration is that the National Assembly, as the supreme legislative body, should exercise some control over the executive branch, then the documents should be prepared so that such control can actually be exercised. The plans should therefore contain a description of the individual properties and the reasons for their sale or purchase, a report on the implementation of the decrees, as well as the reasons why no realisation has occurred, for example. If we do not have such data, then we simply cannot discuss anything except operate with some blank numbers. In this case, the treatment of these decisions is in fact completely pointless.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the president, a good day! The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Real Estate Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities constitute the legal basis for issuing an annual decision on the real estate management plan. The owners of assets owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up each year a plan of movable and immovable property intended for alienation and, at the same time, a plan for the acquisition of assets. Proposals for action shall be drawn up by ministries for their needs and the needs of bodies in their composition, as well as for public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds in their field of work, the General Secretariat of the Government for their needs and the needs of government services, the Ministry of Public Administration for administrative units and the Ministry of Justice for judicial bodies. This year's decree also contains a collection or table of all assets intended for disposal, or a plan for the purchase of such assets in 2016 and 2017. The proposals of today's decree and the real estate management plans are prepared transparently and provide a simple record of the real estate ownership of the country, both in the real estate area and in the area of movable property. In the motions of the decrees, it is the property that the state does not need for its operation and therefore represents surplus assets. Such assets are therefore willing to sell or rent to an economy or individuals if they feel that they will manage it better than the state itself. In Novi Slovenija, we point out one very important fact that this is only about the planned disposals or acquisitions of real estate and movable property, not the actual procedures. The gap between planned sales and purchases and their realisation can be considerable. In order for real estate management to be as transparent and efficient as possible, the applicant should therefore also report on the implementation of the management plan for all bodies. We are, of course, also drawing attention to a weak strategy in this area, in particular with regard to property that the state does not need to operate. It is an empty office apartment that has remained unoccupied for several years, and the state is literally demonstrating its machete’s attitude toward its property. But colleagues and colleagues, because of these dilemmas for a motion for a decree, without which property managers cannot afford assets in terms of alienation or acquisition, we will support the motion of a decree in the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! An estimated EUR 97 million of sales revenue and more than EUR 104 million of planned purchases are planned for 2016 for the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan. In 2017, almost EUR 8 million of real estate revenues are planned and around EUR 54 million of property purchases are planned. The proposals for decisions on the State's real estate management plan for the other state authorities, which I listed at the outset, are intended to sell one real estate to the Constitutional Court at an indicative value of EUR 70 000 in 2016 and 3 real estates in 2017 at an indicative value of EUR 289,000. Other authorities have not proposed the sale or purchase of real estate. In total, other state authorities are planning to purchase movements of EUR 368,000 and for the sale of real property, an income of EUR 70 000. For 2017, other state authorities are planning to purchase movable assets totalling EUR 150 000 and, in the context of the sale of movable property, a total income of EUR 289,000. It should be pointed out that the Ministry of Public Administration does not assess the value of the sale or purchase of assets in the proposals of individual bodies, but simply prepares guidelines for the preparation of the plans and selects the proposals submitted. We can further welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Public Administration, as they have dramatically improved the records of the real estate of the country, from which it is now more visible what has been sold and what has not been. It should be said, however, that the annual implementation of real estate management plans is extremely small, only 5% to 6%, and therefore, given the very poor implementation of the country's real estate management decisions, the question has been raised for some time now whether the preparation and adoption of these decisions make any sense. That is why the Ministry of Public Administration is also actively considering amending the law on the management of state property. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will support the proposals of the decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! The Real Estate Act provides that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, shall adopt a plan for the management of the state's movable and immovable property. The plan for the management of movable and immovable property of the State consists of a plan for the acquisition of immovable and movable property as well as a plan for the disposal of immovable and movable property. According to the State Council, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Human Rights, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and other State Authorities, the planned acquisition or purchase of land, buildings and land with a value of EUR 47.7 million for 2016 and EUR 17.4 million for 2017. The real estate management plan also plans to dispose of or sell land, buildings and land with buildings worth €87.6 million for 2016 and €16.7 million for 2017. The plans of conduct for all authorities also show the planned acquisition or purchase of movable property, namely for motor vehicles worth EUR 12.6 million for 2016 and EUR 9.9 million for 2017, and for information equipment valued at EUR 15.4 million for 2016 and EUR 11.3 million for 2017 and for other assets, EUR 29.4 million for 2016 and EUR 25.1 million for 2017. The sale of movable property for all organs. The sale of motor vehicles of EUR 3 million in 2016 and EUR 2.4 million in 2107 is planned. And other movable assets worth €6.9 million for 2016 and €111,000 for 2017. I would like to stress that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support proposals that go in the direction of acquisition and disposal of assets in terms of a good master. All asset managers should also act in this light. We'd stop at the property management plan, more specifically when buying cars. Here I would like to point out that some ministries are planning to purchase vehicles like on a running lane. Let me mention that the Ministry of Finance, which planned the purchase of 35 passenger vehicles in 2015, has 10 special vehicles; in 2016 it plans to purchase 42 vehicles, 6 special vehicles, and in 2017 41 passenger vehicles and 6 special vehicles. So the Ministry of Finance will buy 118 passenger vehicles and 23 special vehicles within three years. On the other hand, we are familiar with a very poor situation or a police car park. Notwithstanding the fact that it makes sense to plan the sale and purchase of real estate at the same time as the budget, the very non-realisation or low percentage of real estate transactions, on the other hand, indicates a lack of regulation of this legislation in force. From the last report on the real estate management plans of the state authorities, we can see that realisation under the expected value criterion has been achieved in a very low percentage. For the purchase of immovable property, the realisation was 7,6 %; for the sale of immovable property at 5,8 %; the purchase of movable property was carried out at 34,1 %; the sale of movable property was barely 2,3 %. The non-implementation of the real estate plans of the country on the other hand also means the same low realization of the current budget, of course in the part relating to real property. In all of this, we are still asked the question of the reasons for such a low reality. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that in all cases it is both objective and subjective responsibility, which we have not yet come to require responsibility for. This, however, raises questions as to the relevance of the obligation to prepare these action plans both on the acquisition side and on the disposal side of the State's real property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have quite a few proposals on the country's real estate plans for 2016 and 2017, which we will support in the Desus Group. The plans of action shall be submitted by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the draft budgets. In principle, we do not have a problem with the list of movable property acquisitions, since the vast majority of the envisaged purchases by the State seem reasonable, but it should be noted that they are only for the forecast of purchases, but we do not have an overview of the actual purchases made. While some amounts stand out considerably, we believe that buying these things will be justified and that the principle of caution is followed when spending taxpayers' money. With regard to motor vehicles and information equipment, it seems that they will be greatly recovered at the Ministry of Interior and in the Desus Group we find this right, especially in the light of the inhuman burdens that have been borne by the employees there recently. In the area of acquisition of other movable property, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Defence. In the first new purchases, they will be particularly happy at the Chemical Institute and at the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, and at the Defence Ministry they will be planning half of the anti-lock missiles in 2015 and still sell 15 T55S tanks, which they hope to recover almost EUR 2 million for next year. In the Desus Group, of course, we are once again missing more social expenditure. Otherwise there will be a few purchases of dishwashers and washing machines for a pensioner's home, here and there you will find funds for a combined vehicle, but still on the item the plan to acquire another movable property is for the social sector projected total of 314 000 euros in funds, which is in fact less than the Centre of Biotechnics and Tourism will pay Novo Mesto for the upgrade of the thermal station for heating greenhouses. While we welcome in the Desus Group the fact that the funds are earmarked for science, which will undoubtedly benefit the country in the future, we also note that Article 2 of the Constitution states that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state, we hope that several more resources will be allocated to this area in the coming years. We will support all of the proposed resolutions in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups and with the joint introduction to this motion for resolutions. The amendments to the amended draft resolutions referred to in points 15 and 16 have not been tabled. However, no amendments were adopted by the home labour body to the motions of the resolutions under points 17 to 25 and therefore no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The vote on the motions of the rulings will take place in full accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate agenda items 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, and 25. We're moving on to 26. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, of the European Parliament and of the Council. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	Your Honor! The basic objective of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 is to legalise solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget adopted. The law follows the substantive framework of the Public Finance Act and also summarises the provisions of previous laws governing the implementation of the budget. In assessing which content, in addition to those directly and inseparably linked to the implementation of the budget, is included in the proposed law, it was also necessary to take into account that failure to regulate certain content in this law could create a legal void or financial consequences that would prevent the smooth implementation of the State budget. In connection with the law on the implementation of the budget, which is adopted every year, I explain that the proposed law is also based on the content laid down in the annual law for 2014 and 2015. I will focus in particular on the changes to be made to implement the 2016 and 2017 budget. The new Regulation provides that direct users of the State budget must, by 31 January 2016 at the latest, ensure a sufficiently large amount of spending rights to cover all those obligations by the end of the year on their payroll accounts and on the corners at which they provide for staff costs. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the reallocation of funds from payment accounts under the proposed law is only possible for the Government. In the event of a breach of the proposed provision, a fine shall also be jeopardised for the person responsible for the direct user of the State budget in Article 74. In the manner set out in the Public Finance Act, the proposed law regulates the resolution of the migration problem. This content shall be governed by an amendment to Article 9 of this Law. In accordance with this amendment, a new budget item may be opened to address the migration problem during the year. This is followed by an amendment to Article 11 which can be further delegated by the State to the resolution of the migrant crisis, if necessary, and a new provision governing the means of providing funds for these purposes. In accordance with this provision, the Government shall decide on the use of funds, while it is important that the rights of use for the resolution of the migration problem cannot be redistributed for other purposes. Article 41 provides for a new budget fund or sub-account established under Article 79 of the USDH-1. In 2016, on the basis of the proposed arrangement, 10 % of the purchases from the sale of capital investments to the newly established budget fund will also be transferred from the sale of capital investments owned by the State received from the entry into force of the SDH-1 Act to 1 January 2016. Furthermore, the proposed law does not explicitly require a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector. Article 65 of the proposed law provides that pensions and other benefits recognised on the basis of rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will not be harmonised until 30 December 2016. Notwithstanding the absence of regular harmonisation of pensions and other benefits in 2016, extraordinary harmonisation of pensions will be carried out in accordance with the proposed Article in January 2016. Chapter 6 of the proposed law regulates the average and provision of funds to municipalities to co-finance investments. In determining the revenue and expenditure of the State, and in this context also the average and level of co-financing resources for municipalities, it is necessary to take into account that Slovenia, until it achieves the structural balance of public finances, must manage public finances in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Pact, the requirements of Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia, the Fiscal Rule Act and the Stability and Growth Pact. With regard to the size of the average, it should be pointed out that despite all efforts to reach agreement with the Community, the Government has failed. The amended bill thus includes a proposal of an average of EUR 522, which means the preservation of funds for the statutory tasks of the municipality at this level. In our view, this level is high enough to cover all the urgent needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State and the team, colleagues and colleagues – at the last moment I also see representatives of the municipalities on the balcony – well welcomed! At its 37th urgent meeting on 13 November, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee has also received a preliminary opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of public finances, the opinion of the competent committee of the State Council, as well as comments or proposals for amendments to the various stakeholders, the municipalities of Koper and Kranj, the Institute for Health Insurance Slovenia, the mayor of Ormož Municipality and also two letters from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. We have tabled the amendments to the draft law by an unrelated Member of Jani Möderndorfer, the SDS Group of Members, the NSI and the United Left, and the coalition SMC, Desus and SD. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia participated in the meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the differences between the current regulation and the draft law. In addition to the content laid down in the Public Finance Act, ZIPRS also regulates other content that would result in a legal void or financial consequences that could allow for the smooth implementation of the budget. In particular, the improvement in the pre-payment regime provided by the direct user to other users or NGOs, the provision on the establishment of a new budget fund, the cessation of the need to reduce the number of public sector employees so that pensions will not be regularly coordinated in 2016, and the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, the issue of funding to the municipality and the increase of the proposed averages from EUR 519 to EUR 522, and the possibility of additional adjustment if agreed with the representatives of municipalities, since negotiations have not yet been concluded during the meeting. On average, in addition to 54% of the municipality's income, financial compensation is provided, which is an additional asset if the amount of income collected is not sufficient to cover the appropriate expenditure, as the income increases, the average decreases in this case. Finally, she presented news on the provision of investment transfers to the municipality. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that most of the comments made by the Service in the written opinion were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and that the remaining comments were withdrawn by further clarifications. In the course of the presentation of the report, the representative of the Council of State pointed out that they did not support the law. The representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia also had the opportunity to present their views at the meeting. In their discussions, they drew attention to the cost dynamics, the effects of the State's measures on this and its own assessment of the appropriate average of EUR 536. In addition, the impact of the recent agreement with trade unions, which will reflect the rise in wage costs, was highlighted. They also pointed out the loss of cohesion funds. Furthermore, it was explained that the municipality is solving its financial problems by means of liquidity loans, by taking funds from dedicated resources and resources or investment funds, which has a negative impact on the development potential that municipalities can bring. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the presentation and explanation of the proposed amendments, from raising the average to a higher level to raising capital and labour taxes. Furthermore, the need for a comprehensive system reform of local self-government was highlighted and concerns about rural development was expressed. Some members also felt that the congregations needed to look into their own organization and that if they failed to provide the assigned tasks, they probably did not act rationally enough. The number of municipalities and the possibility of further integration of municipal administrations were also problematic. The Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups and the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 53. The remaining amendments have not been adopted by the Committee or some amendments have become irrelevant. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would like to inform you that Minister Dusan Maramor has asked me to excuse his temporary absence, that the government is currently holding a meeting and will be back as soon as possible. I welcome the representatives of the municipalities, the mayors and mayors who have joined us and are sitting on the balcony! The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, distinguished mayors and gentlemen of the mayors! As usual, the law on the implementation of budgets, this time for 2016 and 2017, interferes with a number of different system laws, which unfortunately has been a practice in the adoption of laws for several years. As already pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, this way of enacting laws reduces the transparency of legislation and introduces in the legal order ambiguity. We must join in with such warnings. ZIPRS1617 affects areas affecting a wider range of citizens, such as, for example, the area of veterans, pension and disability insurance, the area of municipal funding or kindergartens. The regulation of an area in a number of laws practically makes it impossible to familiarise itself with its current content, which has an important impact on the status and rights of citizens. The law greatly prolongs the validity of measures under the Public Finance Balance Act, which has been adopted as a temporary measure to reduce budgetary expenditure or increase budgetary revenue and has been limited in time to economic recession; more precisely, until the economic growth in the preceding year reaches 2.5 per cent. At the time of the adoption of the ZUJF, the current ruling coalition, which was also part of Nova Slovenije, was given a plaza of accusations about the inadmissibility of the measures, and now the current coalition is extending the validity of these measures even during the period of significant economic growth – let it understand who can. We cannot pass the provision on the one-off extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in January 2016 by 0.7 per cent, this will not be known to individual pensioners in their wallets. Compared to public servants who negotiated with the Government with a significant increase in salaries and regress for 2016, pensioners also suffered much less this time compared to public servants. I hope the pensioners are listening and listening now. Pensions have been significantly reduced in the last few years and now almost half of pensioners are receiving pensions under the poverty risk threshold set at around EUR 600 in Slovenia. One-time reconciliation of pensions means an average of €65 per pensioner per year or a good €5 per month, virtually nothing, and in the last few years pensions have fallen by a good 20 per cent. The bill strongly affects the funding of municipalities, and this is exactly what the debate has been about, and is sure to be taking place today at this plenary session. It is said that in the area of funding for municipalities, both for investment funds and for medium-sized enterprises. These are the resources that local communities receive from the State budget to ensure the implementation of their legal tasks, which are increasingly being carried out. The representative associations of municipalities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of municipalities of Slovenia proposed to set an average of EUR 536 in 2016 and 2017. This level of average was established in 2013 and 2014. In 2016, municipalities will face increased expenditure related to the release of the promotions of public servants and other increases in costs. The proposed average of EUR 522 for 2016 and 2017, as proposed by the coalition, is absolutely too low in the opinion of New Slovenia. According to the methodology set out in the Law on Community Financing and the Regulation on the methodology for calculating the average for the financing of municipal tasks, the Community average should be EUR 652 and EUR 671. Colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about 260 million euros, we are talking about a quarter of a billion euros for the municipalities, but of course they will not get it. Aware of the public financial situation on the one hand and the amount of expenditure incurred by municipalities to cover statutory tasks, on the other hand, New Slovenia believes that the average level should be maintained at least at the average level of 2013 and 2014, so we have tabled an amendment proposing the fixing of an average of EUR 536 for both the following financial years. For all these reasons, Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats The draft law on the implementation of budgets for 2016 and 2017 will not be supported. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Once again, everyone here is very welcome! Given the legal nature of the State budget, the implementation of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an urgent and direct condition for the implementation of the budget and its implementation. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union and of the European Monetary Union, is committed to respect common rules both in public financial movements and in the wider macroeconomic field. The European Commission has just completed its evaluation of 16 draft budgetary plans for 2016 submitted by the euro area Member States by 15 October. Slovenia also forwarded the draft budgetary plan for 2016 to the Commission within the prescribed deadlines and in the prescribed form. The Commission adopted and published an opinion yesterday in accordance with the Regulation on the basis of the document sent. Slovenia is in a group of five other countries subject to the corrective part of the Stability and Growth Pact or the excessive deficit procedure. For Slovenia, the Commission notes that it has properly prepared a budgetary plan for 2016, which is largely in line with the requirements of the Growth and Stability Pact, but does not have much freedom to deviate from the road map. On the basis of this Commission assessment, Slovenia could move from 2016 to the preventive part of the Pact if it addresses the excessive deficit in time and in a sustainable manner for 2015. For this reason, Slovenia must work through policy and measures to further reduce the deficit until a permanent structural balance of public finances is achieved, in line with the preventive work of the Stability and Growth Pact and the International Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union. The measures in the proposed law follow this objective. The government funding proposal proposed by the municipalities in this law also means pursuing the key objective of the state budget as an instrument of government in implementing macroeconomic policy. Notwithstanding the fact that the Presidency of the Municipal Associations rejected the conclusion of the 2016 agreement and did not accept the government's bids designed to go against the municipalities as much as possible, that is, when setting an average of EUR 525, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia retained the proposed improvements to the functioning of the municipalities in the Draft Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2016 and 2017. This means that this law regulates the legal basis for the issuance of new decisions on the assessment of the NHRI, allows for a favourable commitment in the State budget, maintains an increased quota for the permissible borrowing of municipalities and expands the possibility of spending investment in European funded projects. In the SMC Group, we regret that the representatives of the municipalities rejected a government proposal on the average for 2016 of EUR 525 because the proposal allowed them the same position as they do this year, as well as the financing of appropriate spending or the performance of all the tasks that citizens are obliged to provide on the basis of laws and regulations. In addition to establishing transfers to municipalities and other solutions already mentioned in connection with the operation of municipalities, the proposed law sets out all the content and elements laid down by the Law on Public Finance and other sectoral laws and introduces several new provisions relating to prepayments of the financing of institutions, specificities through the management and sale of financial assets, the preparation of financial plans for direct users of the budget, employment policy, measures to reduce expenditure in the field of pension and social protection, the reduction of the public kindergarten subsidy and the provision of health services for veterans. As I said in the introduction, this is a law that monitors the budget each year and is essentially intended for the implementation of annual budgets, this time for 2016 and 2017. In addition to the solutions provided by the JJF, which are necessary for the technical implementation of the budget, the draft law also proposes the content already mentioned, which we assess is an urgent need to regulate, because otherwise there could be both legal and financial consequences that would prevent the smooth implementation of budgets for the next two years. Therefore, the proposed law will be supported in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Dear visitors on the balcony, I ask you politely to follow the house order we have in the National Assembly. Otherwise, we will have to cut through the most restrictive measure and remove you from the balcony. I do not wish to do this, so I ask you politely to follow the meeting, do not disturb the debaters and representatives of positions. I ask so politely for these things. Thank you very much. Following is the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Dear Vice-President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! The law on the implementation of the budget is a law that always follows the budget and usually regulates what is not in other system laws and, of course, what makes it possible to implement this budget. However, all items in the budget must be harmonised among themselves. They're not today. We do not know how much the national budget will pay the average for the municipalities. This raises the question of the legitimacy and legality of the 2016 and 2017 budget at all. The financial structure of the 2016 and 2017 budgets is not complete, is not harmonised. That is why we today need to know what we accept if we accept. The government's task is to bring the budget documents into line with all stakeholders is not to bring others into line with the government, but to bring governments in line with others; governments to harmonise with the municipalities and not the other way around. And here the situation is quite clear. And the government's task under the Public Finance Act is to also submit to the National Assembly other balances: municipal balance sheets, pensions and health insurance balances. This has not been done by this government, which is why it is responsible for the disagreement on the part of the Government of Mir Cerar. Here is, of course, the question of which number should be given for the average. Whether this is based on formulas – one is 652, the other is 671. Here is the question whether the government of Mira Cerar adheres to its own legislation. If she does not like the law, if she does not like the formula, let her change the formula, but stick to the formula, keep to the legality and legitimacy. Of course, the question here is, how are we going to do this now, because Brussels tells us that the European Commission has to stick to fiscal rules and so on. But at the expense of who? Today we are no longer in the crisis: either at the expense of the people, at the expense of the citizens or perhaps at the expense of someone else. Certainly not on a security account. However, we certainly think that there is a huge possibility that at the expense of other structures in the state budget there can be additional savings and not at the expense of the municipalities, not at the expense of citizens, but mainly by promoting the economy, by increasing economic growth, by reducing unemployment and by increasing job creation. The law on the implementation of the budget does not include and does not contain, nor does the budget for 2016 and 2017, as a result we do not intend to support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the other hand, we cannot constantly impose and give the municipalities new tasks, take union initiatives on the one hand that affect the budgets of the municipalities, which affect so that they cannot cover even current tasks with the present average, and therefore turn all these costs over to people, to kindergarten payers, to school payers and so on, which will cost more. In the end, people will pay a higher price, and that is, ladies and gentlemen, unacceptable. Local self-government is a constitutional category and the state must ensure the functioning of local self-government. People, citizens in local communities, exercise their interests in the congregations and their lives depend on the quality of their services. The service of local self-government depends on how the state will finance these municipalities, in accordance with the law of the formula. We are aware that during the crisis there was a need to tighten the belt, but today the government of Mira Cerar says that we are in the prime of growth, that we have economic growth, that we have more jobs. In other areas, it does not save and I do not understand why it has to save at the expense of the municipalities, at the expense of the citizens. However, a well-respected coalition, you have a chance. The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment setting an average of €536. Fair amendment! Accept it and solve the systemic problem you have, the problem of legality and the problem with the legality of this budget and the Law on the implementation of the budget. We will not support such a law, but we propose an amendment to accept it and to solve the problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken. I politely ask all the visitors on stage not to clap, not to disturb the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, co-workers, colleagues and a crowd of mayors and mayors who sit up and follow this agenda item! Looks like some of us are doomed here today to whistle at us and some of us are getting applause. I hope and I am sure that you understand this very well, because you are also accepting your budgets, and when you accept it, you are probably also satisfied. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a law whose aim is to provide solutions that will enable the implementation of budgets for 2016 and 2017. Let me begin by saying that we will unanimously support it in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, as it provides the basis for further consolidation and stabilisation of public finances and the creation of conditions for economic growth. We are aware that the public financial situation is still far from pink. Let us recall that this year, too, we have committed ourselves to limiting public spending through the adoption of fiscal rules. It appears that this move has the expected positive effects on the country's credit rating and the interest rate at which the State is indebted. This is extremely important, as a small reduction in the interest rate may already mean part of the money we devote to health care, education and the final stage for pensions. At the outset, I must point out that in the Desus Group we regret that the representatives of the Government and the municipalities have not reached an agreement on the level of the average. We are aware of the important role played by local governments, but our resources are limited. Otherwise, the government’s side gave in a little, but apparently the height was offered but far from the expectations of the congregations. We're so afraid to stay on different shores. The current solution to the refugee problem requires a lot of resources and consequently also requires an intervention in the budget, so we supported the solution that the Government will be able to open new items during the year if this is necessary. Resources for this purpose will be provided by redistributing the right to consumption. Since it is not possible to plan precisely according to the scope of these funds, we have also allowed the possibility for the State to take additional responsibility for this purpose. However, I must point out that in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are pleased that there will finally be an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions in the coming January. We have already chosen such a measure at the time of the signing of a coalition agreement, which states that pensions must be harmonised in the event of more than 2.5% economic growth in the previous year. Strong negotiations on this have taken place quite a good part of the year. In addition, the adoption of the law will allow the annual allowance to be maintained for the next two years. This is not a holiday regression, but it is in most cases a regress for buying fuel for winter, for those living on edge, at the level of 2015. In doing so, I would like to point out another fact in the Desus Group. The projection of the demographic picture of the future shows an alarming picture. It is high time to set up a reserve demographic fund to relieve the budget for a certain provision of pension funds. Therefore, by adopting this law, a sub-account will also be established for part of the sale of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which will go to the reserve demographic fund at the time of its establishment. At this point, it should be stressed that in the Desus Group we insist on its establishment as soon as possible, as the deadline for the Slovenian State Holding Act expires at the end of this year and, of course, coalition coordination has exceeded the deadline – this coalition coordination has already exceeded the deadline. We are aware that the reconciliation of pensions and the payment of the annual allowance will not be a large amount, unfortunately we are still limited by the account that we are paying for the formation of the bank hole, but in the Desus Group we hope that the most vulnerable groups of residents will be able to breathe a little better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 is certainly a key document or act to ensure that life in the country and in the local communities can run within the given framework, such as the State budget and consequently, depending on the binding of local budgets to averages, including municipal budgets. In these provisions, which are enshrined in the law on the implementation of the budget, it is certainly possible to welcome the solutions that enable pre-payments to be made by users, and this means that they have the resources already in the period when they are faced with the implementation of a specific project, and only in the implementation of this project can they also carry out a report on the use of funds, and this is certainly something that is always extremely welcome when you are planning an investment or activity. It is also welcome to provide municipalities with an additional favourable debt for investments in the state budget, which is always one of the current issues of how to make more investment possible and, last but not least, to speed up economic growth and, consequently, the growth of gross domestic product. It is important that this law also explicitly no longer requires a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector, i.e. all too many measures in the last period have been effectively subordinated only to a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector. This is not a local level, but we can see at national level that this has already had serious consequences for the functioning of the authorities, especially since many experienced staff have retired during this period, but there have been none who could be involved in this process in a timely manner and have done their job well as younger ones in these bodies. Thus, this measure is actually welcome, since, last but not least, increased public sector consumption also means greater economic growth or an increase in gross domestic product, which was one of the major problems at the time of the financial crisis, that funds were being drastically reduced in the public sector and thus economic growth was also falling. An important solution, particularly welcomed by the Group of Social Democrats, also relates to the payment of health services to war veterans. Indeed, this intervention was extremely drastic and at a time when you are facing an economic and financial crisis, it was very quick to realise that we forget all those who were extremely important and determined that Slovenia is today a single country and that interference with their rights was certainly not justified during that period. It is true that this instant of recovery of the payment of health services is governed by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which means that this solution is also of a temporary nature. This is 2016, 2017, and this is something that is welcome, but is not acceptable for further resolution of this problem, so we will also insist that these payments to war veterans are definitively arranged and that it is not affected in the future. We also drew attention to the fact that there are certain reserves in this budget for 2016, 2017 and that the budget could actually be significantly better than it is at this point in time. Here we have drawn attention to the great potential that we have in banks and the potential that banks have with favourable financing for the economy and for households to be able to respond to their needs. This would raise economic growth, gross domestic product, and this could certainly achieve the target that municipalities expect to achieve in order for the average to be €536 and not within 522,525, as it is now. Thus, unfortunately, this reserve has not yet been used, but the Law on the Implementation of the Budget is in fact urgently needed to ensure that life and economic growth in Slovenia are not denied, which, of course, would be extremely difficult to fix below, so we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The main issue that is being raised when this law is being examined is the financing of municipalities. The government is already practically trying to reach a compromise with the municipalities. The formula of this compromise is simple: the government reduces the budgetary financing of municipalities and thus saves, the municipalities relieve themselves in certain legal obligations and reduce their costs. The problem that everyone is talking about is that the mass of averages will be reduced more than the financial obligations of the municipalities will be reduced, and no one wonders whose account is being saved here. The obligations of the congregations are, on the other hand, the rights of their citizens, our citizens. However, we all know that municipalities have social functions in addition to administrative and infrastructure services, especially in providing suitable housing. Of course, we do not underestimate administrative functions in the United Left, but we will always stress social functions. I will therefore remind again the beneficiaries of the subsidy of the market rents you have left behind, both the government and the associations of the congregations. On 1 April, a subsidy was abolished for those beneficiaries of a non-profit lease that the congregation could not afford a non-profit apartment and were forced into a much more expensive lease. This is an illustration of how the compromise between the local and national political classes short-circuits of socially endangered citizens. Of course, there are still a number of congregation obligations to be mentioned, but I will only point out that the congregations are the founders of health homes and the home of older citizens. If the congregations receive insufficient funds, this will certainly be the case in this area. As members of the National Assembly, we cannot really judge what EUR 522 of the average is, which is duly laid down in Article 53 of this Law. The government has not provided us with an analysis showing which obligations of the municipalities would be overturned as a result of this measure and for how much. Of course, something is quite clear – the mass of the salaries of the municipal officials who carry out these obligations will increase in 2016 and 2017. This will happen already due to advances and additions during working hours. The average should therefore also be increased in 2017, but this law sets the same amount for both years. Thus, the government formula does not come out or will, as usual, come at the expense of the citizens. That's why I'm once again calling on the government to put the cards on the table. Article 53 has been written in such a way that it leaves room for manoeuvre for negotiations. It leaves room for increasing the average in order not to impose or prolong anti-social measures. At the same time, I repeat that there is an alternative. The income of the municipalities is an essential source of income. We are in the 27th place following the collection of income on capital revenues on the tail of the European Union. If the National Assembly does not act, we will collect less income from this title in 2016 and 2017 than in the crisis year 2012. The second source is a reduction in the threshold of the fourth income class, so that no more taxes will be taxed on the best paid, but at least 3 percent. In the short term, income measures bring some 40 million euros. By 2017, however, much more can be done, especially with a solidarity tax on real estate, which would mainly be the income of municipalities. We cannot assume responsibility for saving in the congregations and citizens, even because it is not clear where and how much it will be cut at all. We will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled amendments to Articles 30 and 73 of the bill, which are published on the e-club. With regard to these amendments, I find that they have been incorrectly tabled, so we will not discuss or vote on them. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments may only be made to the amended draft law in respect of the articles to which the mother's working body has accepted amendments. The SDS Group wants to regulate the content relating to Article 23 of the bill, redistribution of spending rights, in Article 30, which relates to the development programme plan, since no amendment has been adopted by the home labour force to Article 23 and cannot be tabled at the meeting of the assembly to this Article of the amendments. It also wants the content relating to Article 49 to be regulated by the scope of the State guarantees in Article 73, which relates to the provision of services to war veterans, since no amendment has been adopted by the mother's working body to Article 49. There is no basis for such conduct in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the second reading, the SDS Amendment itself, together with similar content, correctly and substantively submitted to the relevant articles, made an appropriate submission at the meeting of the parent working body, but was not accepted. If the debate and vote on that amendment were to be allowed, this would be an important precedent for the continuation of the work of the National Assembly relating to the second reading of amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly on the supplementary proposal for a law. This would practically mean that almost no restrictions on the application of the amendments would apply, thus circumventing the decisions taken at the meeting of the home working body. Further proceedings or further clarifications have already been given to you by the President of the National Assembly during this meeting yesterday and even today. But we're moving on to the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 53 and the separate amendments of the non-connected groups of Members, SDS and NSIs. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	Colleagues and colleagues! It is an article or amendment that speaks of the financing of municipalities. The municipalities are an important form of self-government or authority in Slovenia. If we had them back in the early 90 ’ s there, about 65 large municipal congregations, today we can count this number over 200. Surely there are reasons why the number of congregations has spread so much, and one of the key reasons is that there were times when large congregations were very poor in caring for individual, slightly more remote parts of these large congregations. This was also the reason why these many small congregations were formed. If we look at all this history of congregation activity, then despite some bad exceptions, we can see a lot of positive things in the functioning of the congregations, even though they may be written and spoken of primarily in those negative cases. But municipalities in Slovenia are those institutions that help reduce regional differences that help to install key infrastructure and provide citizens with some appropriate status, some appropriate way of life. To ensure this, they need money. That's the basic point. In recent years, there has been an extremely strong trend in taking money from municipalities, so that municipalities do virtually no more than what is necessary. If more than one fifth of their investment budget could be given in the past, this has today been substantially reduced and limited. We've reached the moment when the operation is compromised, the normal functioning of the municipalities. However, it must be added that during the entire period, additional tasks and obligations were imposed on the municipalities through different laws, while the money was not added, and it was even more taken. When we have the opportunity to fix this today, we need to make use of it, and the amendment proposed in New Slovenia is not such as to significantly jeopardise the stability of public finances, but it does allow some normal state of affairs for the municipalities to secure the money they have had in recent years. We propose an average of €536. The municipalities have shown in various calculations that more than €600 would be needed for statutory tasks, and this is the minimum that we can provide to the municipalities for some normal operation. If we do not do so, then I cannot understand this differently from the actual abolition of the congregations. In one previous government, Minister Gregor Virant came with a proposal to this house and actually wanted to abolish by law a larger number of municipalities, especially those of the smaller ones. Remember how the opposition was against this, because logically, what was created by human will or, if you wish, by referendum, it is difficult to break the matter. Minister Virant’s efforts to do so were quickly buried because there was neither political support nor any other broader interest in abolishing more than a hundred municipalities in Slovenia, as many were aware that the municipalities were doing much good in the country. As I look at these budget documents now, I feel that what Minister Virant failed to do with the law will succeed with money. You cut someone off, you cut them off, you shut the door -- you just shut his finances out. If, years ago, there was not much willingness to abolish and reduce the congregations, I fear that this will also increase through such a way of financing in the future. Why? Because we will bring matters or you will bring things so far away that the municipalities, in particular the smaller ones, besides the salaries for the municipal administration, in addition to the compulsory financing of preschool care, school transportation, and even a few minorities of the congregation will not be able to do anything else. When we arrive at a time when a mayor or a municipal council in the municipality or a hundred yards [100 m] of sidewalk will not be able to build or build a water supply, even though the mayor is legally responsible for the water supply of his citizens, then most likely a number of people will ask about the meaning of the existence of such a congregation. At that time, there is likely to be a greater willingness to reduce the number of congregations. I think that this is wrong, and I think that once the number of congregations is reduced, regional differences will increase. The municipalities were the best tools for reducing the differences between East and Central Slovenia or West. Therefore, now that the budgetary documents are being considered, we have a unique opportunity to correct these intentions, at least in part. I hope that there will be political courage and reason to support this amendment. The Minister of Finance said a few days ago in this debate room that the offer of the Ministry of Finance was very broad-minded and that the Ministry of Finance was not one to restrict or impose on the municipalities, and to actually confirm and prove it, you have an easy opportunity, which is to support the amendment. Of course I'll back him up myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	Good afternoon. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, the Finance Department team, everyone else present! I would start with some paraphrased Hamlet speech: Whether or not to be liked by the mayors is now a question. I think it's very important. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Fox, that's it. Some older comrades here are quite smart and forget about their previous actions, how they were, how this ZIPRS began, why it was and what it was needed to do. There is a lot of this hypocrisy and a lot of commotion in our speech about ZIPRS. But if we focus, ZIPRS is mainly the pain of the average and the pain of our mayors. I'd like to tell a little story of a small town, the third city in Russia by size, that's Novosibirsk. He has only two million inhabitants, and I accidentally had a small opportunity to come along, to be accepted by the mayor and we spoke a little while ago he asked: Marka, tell me how many you have in Slovenia. I said 212. He said, yeah. How many people do you have? I said that the circus is 2 million He said, so we have 2 million inhabitants in our town of Novosibirsku and we have one mayor and one mayor and we operate on 502 square meters while in Slovenia you have 212 municipalities and all the other matters belong. I'd say you're probably rich; you're rich in oil, you're rich in mines, you probably have a very strong case. In fact, it may have hit some point; the number of municipalities 212 – more, less, or should be given every municipality to every citizen of Slovenia This is a question, yes, we can talk about it. But is this self-sufficient or will this be self-sustaining, or will they be able to go through with it? [[…]] I don't know, but it was also a big political decision, whether it counts or not. As far as reforming local self-government is concerned. I am also in favour of the local self-government reforming itself so that, in particular, the state and the municipalities can agree on how to work on some real – I stress the real – foundations that this country can provide. There are and will be, but we have to answer the other half: Do these congregations have some of their "covered sources of funding"? I'd say they do. If I just mention operational leasing, let's say, or transferring liabilities to municipal companies and so on and so on. Here, too, we can debate this. If we're talking about public institutions and we're talking about: on the coast we have a utility that buys the share of Vina Koper for 2 million and a half, we have this company that buys the newspaper Finance. It is said that it is a local interest, I do not know – a coastal one, yes – but the fact is that if it is a public institution, it should be involved in its activity, its basic activity. If he is involved in this basic activity and has such an excess of resources, he should at least reduce municipal contributions in and around the congregation because they are intended for this purpose. If we are saying that this is only a local interest, it is a question, but it is worth talking very clearly in some debate on the functioning and financing of local communities. And according to the options that this country has at this time and the optimal number of municipalities that can maintain them or that can be self-sustaining. Let this be the conclusion; I would like both the municipalities and the state to show some willingness to make a change, to some active approach and to some organisational interventions that would allow these measures, which are given, to take advantage and to achieve some synergies for savings and positive effects. I think that's some sense, some way we could follow. And yes, I will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. A few answers first. I understand SMC's disease because it has no mayor and has a smaller number of saints and, with all due respect, you probably don't know the history of local self-government or constitutional matters concerning local self-government, or the European Charter on Local Self-Government and so on. You must have forgotten, too, when you were reading what wasn't done back there. The SDS proposed the provinces, and the two parties who are now with you in the coalition were against it. Regarding the number of municipalities: Russia is one example, but for example we have France, where – you will not believe – we have two municipalities, according to data from 2014, which do not even have a population. The case of the Czech Republic and other countries, by comparing only one country, is little so, not serious. The Minister of Finance said that public finances should be taken care of. Of course! But on the one hand, you give the municipalities legal obligations, such as the new law on the public sector wage system, where these salaries are to be paid by 13 million at the level of the municipalities, and on the average you raise them from 519 to 522, which is not even to cover these obligations that you will accept by vote today. So much for your concern for the congregations. And on the other hand, financial concerns. Interestingly, for the public sector 150 or how many million — with ease! Only his company, the state forests, could negotiate 20 million in the budget — with ease! And there are a lot of these sweets, but, of course, honourable Members of the SMC, your local self-government is not the third, but at least the ninth. I do not agree with what the Minister of Finance has said that despite the government's efforts, the government has said to the municipalities: Take it or leave it. [[…]] That must have been why — how many? – 100 mayors on the Tribunal; not because they agree, but because they oppose this unilateral intervention. To continue; remember when we took ZIPRO for 2015? My first discussion at the time was that it was unrealistic for us to accept matters in January when the budgets were adopted there in November, in December. At least those serious congregations. There it was said, 525 for the first half and 500 euros for the second half when we regulate systemic solutions when we adopt the ZUJF municipalities. What happened to these systemic solutions and the ZUJF municipalities? That's when I said it was a bluff and a push. So we said, uh, Fox, you have no idea. Apparently it was a bluff and a push because in the second half of the year — what did you calculate for yourself? - that went from 500 to 519. So because you've completely missed out on your assumptions or in practice you haven't done anything. As long as there is a law and a formula for calculating the average, at least we should stick to it in part. And where's the spread between 522 and 652 euros? It's big. I have repeatedly made a joke to obviously need both the Community and the Union of the Congregations of some Branimir Strukl to be so popular with government negotiators that they would probably negotiate some euro more. But apparently, as I said before, this government with ministers, especially from the SMC quota, has no concern for local self-government. However, I appeal to colleagues from SD and Desus, who have a number of mayors to listen to these mayors, because I believe that not only up here, but also in practice, many have received some kind of call from their mayor, so that in the 2016 and 2017 budget he does not say what he would like to say, but here he will press the key for EUR 522, not for example for the proposal of the SDS Group and also New Slovenia for EUR 536. I believe that many of you will come to your mayor and he will say that the mayor has ideas, let's give the congregation something to do. That I'm the mayor, I say to him first, "Dear colleagues, what did you press there?" And he'd have calm blood. Obviously, what Mr Koprivnikar said was that the so-called Virant reform of local self-government did not continue when he said overnight, when he woke up in the morning, 100 congregations and no more. That is exactly what the policy is going on. You close your pussy slowly, slowly, 2016 – 522, 2017 – 522, if it is, it will. On the other hand, this government coalition imposes new and new legal obligations, and then they say they have no effect on the congregations. How do you have it? Read a little of the laws you make, and you'll understand. Moreover, in recent years the municipalities have been the main generator of economic growth, for which you boast that this is the issue of this government, how you raised it, rather than not understanding exporters, you do not understand that, above all, the local elections in 2014 were those that have greatly contributed to better economic growth. And what do the congregations have to do with this? Nothing. The municipalities have nothing to do with this. In two hours you will adopt the Public Sector Wage System Act, 13 million more costs for municipalities, giving it half of that amount. You're going straight to the bluff. The municipalities are one of the main generators – in addition to the economy, especially exporters – for economic growth and you take them away. More! In view of the fact that the municipality will not even have a statutory obligation to do so – where only investments are made. That's my conclusion. Dearly beloved, we have listened for two days to representatives of the government and the coalition, as this budget is also investment-oriented. But you took that from the generals. I have always said that the local community receives one euro from one euro, the two-euro municipality makes one, and the country – ask the citizens what they think – one euro goes, and the country picks them up for itself through such and different mechanisms. In short, I hope that money will be found for the congregations, because otherwise the only solution in 2016 will be the obvious adoption of some law on cannabis or marijuana, and then we will all live happily; both those who are mayors who are municipal councilors and also those who hang down for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, distinguished Secretary of State! We are talking about the law on the implementation of the budget or Article 53, which refers to the level of the average for the municipalities. I will continue where my colleague Lisec ended up in economic growth. All these relaxations to be enjoyed by public servants are due to this economic growth. Many will have something small, but some of it. What about congregations on the other side? On the other hand, we know that they deserve to a large extent the same economic growth in 2014 together with exporters. For exporters, we know that the actual economy is only tax and otherwise burdened, not burdensome, and similar for the municipalities. The second driver of our economic growth and, of course, it is not recognised on your part. As far as the executions themselves are concerned by the law of certain tasks. These assignments increase to the congregations all the time. The general costs incurred by the municipalities for these statutory tasks are also increasing. Populations are old, more people are in homes for the elderly, there is a higher proportion to be added by municipalities; there is a lower social situation of people, a higher proportion to be given by municipalities to co-finance kindergartens and so on. This average, which was extremely low this year, should absolutely be raised given that the situation in the country has improved slightly. We are talking about different numbers, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we have estimated that at least EUR 536 is the amount that would be absolutely appropriate in view of the situation in the country. Many municipalities are already faced with liquidity problems due to the coverage of statutory tasks, not to mention the migration problems themselves. Those crossings of the green borders, those costs were borne by the municipalities, so far nothing was recovered from the state budget, and there is little at the southern border. When you raise the charges on one side to public servants, you raise the costs again to the municipalities. What will the congregations simply be forced to do? They too will be forced to raise some of their services to cover this difference. What does that mean? This, of course, is then passed on to citizens and citizens, which means to all of us. Our amendment - EUR 536 is in fact the minimum that we would need so that we can somehow function normally. It is necessary to be aware that the number of municipalities has already been exposed on the committee and also here today, but all of us who come from minority municipalities know that since we have small municipalities, the development of Slovenia has been substantially improved. I believe that all citizens and citizens deserve a quality life, whether we live in the middle of the city or live in the countryside. We must work towards a balanced, even development of Slovenia. And it was the congregations that helped so much. Even though, as Mr Ferruga said, we have some additional sidewalks – yes, of course, sidewalks are extremely important for the safety of our citizens and citizens, for the safety of our children. All the facilities built by the municipalities, such as health care, schools, kindergartens, health care, are also important; everything is important; we all deserve about the same quality of life, including in rural areas. Here, the congregations made significant progress. I really appeal to all of you, talk to the mayors – the vote has not yet taken place – and support this amendment. EUR 536 is the minimum that municipalities actually need to function normally. The SD has quite a few mayors, probably talking to them. I believe that SMC is a little more difficult, but because everyone lives in the environment, because it concerns all of us, we are citizens and citizens too. That's why it's important and not because the mayors like it, no! Because of the quality of life of all of us, especially those in the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u91	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. I will touch the amendments to Article 53. As I said in my opening remarks, this amount is quite arbitrary. We know that there is still a possibility of further negotiations with municipalities on the level of the average, but above all we should base this on some kind of calculation; it is said that we would find out what these figures mean. I agree that this amount may be too low, but this should also take into account the social function played by the municipalities and also provide for funds to that extent. Of course, there is a question of the budget as such or its implementation, which is linked to the fact that money is not sufficient or that this current budget, as it is drawn up, and the law for its implementation is in some way trying to seek sustainability and achieve the criteria imposed by the fiscal rule. At least part of the solution is that we constantly repeat in the United Left: on the one hand, Slovenia is one of those countries that definitely have the most tax reserves in the European Union. On the one hand, we have a total tax rate of 35.7 per cent of GDP, a weighted EU average of eight hundred and eight is 39.4 per cent. Furthermore, the share of direct taxes is only 20.8 per cent in the EU, 28 per cent in the EU. The share of capital taxes, total taxes, in Slovenia is 10 per cent, the average of the European Union is 20, says twice as many. We also have the lowest base for capital taxes. For example, the long-term average in Austria was 25 percent of GDP, which is 19 percent. Therefore, in the United Left, we have already proposed several times to raise taxes on profits, on high wages, and on capital revenues, which would generate around 140 million per year according to our calculations. With regard to the corporate income tax. In 2012, we were in the last place in the European Union after the share of this tax on GDP. The tax rate should be raised from 17 per cent to 20 per cent, but we will still be substantially below the EU average of 22.6. As I said before, in Austria this rate is 25, in Italy it is 27 and a half. This would generate almost 84 million additional funds in the coming year alone, without having to charge a single cent. As far as income is concerned. Today, only 3.4 per cent of taxpayers or only 3,000 300 of the best paid people in Slovenia fall into the 4th grade. Therefore, it would be rational, perhaps, and also imperative that this limit be lowered. We have proposed to lower it from €70 000 907 tax base to €37 000 921, thus covering the 3% of the best paid. In short, it is not enough that the 4th grade is preserved, as the government has now foreseen, but that its limit should be reduced significantly. If we keep it, it will bring 16 million if we release the border and an additional 30 million, a total of 45 million for the best paid 3% of citizens. This, of course, is not an extraordinary tax. If we look at the figures again, the highest rate in the Netherlands is 52 per cent, with a limit of 57 thousand 585 years, which is 13 thousand Euros less than ours, even though the Netherlands' GDP is more than 2 times higher; or Austria, where the limit is 60,000 years old. Further, with regard to income from capital income, we are talking about dividends, interest, trade in shares and so on. According to the latest available data, Slovenia was, by the proportion of these taxes in terms of GDP at 27th place in the European Union, of course, the last place. In Slovenian banks, the population has 15 billion deposits, the value of shares and bonds in Slovenia nominally exceeds 50 billion, about 2 billion are in various funds, and only 96.3 million euros are planned in 2016. By comparison, we raised 17.5 million euros in 2012, even though there was a recession. I think this information is pretty eloquent. Of course, the proposal is to introduce a minimum correction of tax rates from 25 per cent to 27 per cent in order to be equal to the 2nd grade of income, and this is to speak of the following four taxes: income, capital gains from the securitisation of securities, dividend income tax, interest income tax and profit from the removal of capital instruments. This would generate around €8 million in additional revenue. Why would such income be mean? Of course, to sort of settle the expenditure side of this budget. Most strikingly, it is definitely a social area. We always hear that we want more for social services. Here we argue that this is not a matter of desire, but of objectively identified needs which this budget does not meet. The amount is €385 per month, and this would require only €60 million from the Ministry of Finance, I say only because this €60 million would significantly improve the situation of 60,000 people. We cannot pretend that the needs are unknown; the government is very well aware of the calculation of the 2009 minimum cost of living ordered by its Ministry of Labour. So he knows that income, minimum income, should be EUR 385. In 2009, the government reduced this amount to 308 because the minimum wage was only EUR 460 net. Finally, 289 euro came into law, which was then reduced by austerity measures to 260 euro. This year is the second year of solid growth, the minimum wage is no longer €460 net, but €500 net, but the government does not want to increase the minimum income even to the 308 promised in 2009. This is simply incomprehensible, of course, because these are not very high amounts, but only 16 million euros. Of course, this mini tax reform, as we call it, which envisions maintaining the 4th income class, brings exactly EUR 16 million. Already here, if this government actually tried to take social measures into account, it could implement the 16 million needed to raise monetary social assistance to EUR 308. This was the amount of the Ministry of Labour, which took into account that the minimum wage was EUR 460. So this is where the bill can be made. In short, we have problems not only with the law on budget implementation but also with the budget itself. That's what we heard yesterday and the day before yesterday. It is essential that the Government does not want to tackle those measures which would also mean substantial social improvement or at least some minimum social improvement in certain aspects of everyday life for citizens and citizens. Of course, we cannot agree with such a law, so that in the United Left we do not support it and also with the amendments that have been tabled, we do not agree and we will abstain from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u93	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! With the amendment of New Slovenia, we want to improve the financial situation of Slovenian municipalities for 2016 and 2017. We propose that instead of EUR 522, the average will become EUR 536. What numbers are we talking about? We are talking about an increase of 14 euros or we are talking about a number of 28 million at the annual increase level. 28 million. On the other hand, for 13 million, the government negotiated with Mr Struklje to further burden the congregations. The government has contributed so much by negotiating with Mr Struklje that it will burden the additional congregations for 13 million. Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder when we will ever be able to provide sufficient funding for Slovenian local government by means of the Community Financing Act, according to methodology; when will we actually stick to what the National Assembly ratified exactly nineteen years ago – it ratified here the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Colleagues and colleagues, maybe just look at Article 9. We have been violating the European Charter of Local Self-Government for some time now, and that is the problem. Of course, "to be or not to be", whether or not to be – who is asking this question today? It is set up by Slovenian municipalities. The Slovenian municipalities are asking themselves this question. First, the "de jur" wanted to abolish Minister Gregor, now I hope that Minister Dr. Marble "de facto" would not abolish them. I consider it reasonable, for a wise gentleman, a wise man, and I believe that today, within the coalition, there may be only so much understanding and understanding of the principle of subsidiarity that, in the course of the discussion, some amendment that will raise the average from EUR 522 to at least 530, which, as I have talked to the mayors, the municipalities would also be willing to accept. We have not tabled, colleagues and colleagues, dear friends, the amendment, because we would like to be liked by the mayors. New Slovenia has ten of them — we are satisfied with this; it has just over 230 municipal saints — we are pleased with this. Some of you do not have them because you are a young party, but when you have them, they will also tell you how they live or live. Local communities, municipalities are the ones that are actually making over a quarter of public investment in the Republic of Slovenia today. In three-quarters! And yes, even the Russian Federation ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government, two years later as Slovenia, but acquaintances, if you Google a little, say that local democracy is not where the dictatorship is, and where they have a centralist system; and the rounding is given by this country, which my friend Marko visited and said in his debate. The original sin, according to our assessment, is that the opposition simply opposed the establishment of a second level of local self-government in the 2004-2008 mandate when we led the government, i.e. the provinces. We already had everything done, not just the laws, including the calculations, simulations for the province's budgets, because this is what the opposition demanded. Everything she asked us to do is done. But there was no political will and, of course, the opposition said no. Some of you say that you are talking to no one and that we have too many municipalities in Slovenia. Really? For God's sake, do research in the National Assembly, we have an excellent sector, and you will be surprised when you compare yourself with neighbouring countries or with comparable countries. You'll be surprised! You will see that the average of citizens in the municipality, or the number of people in the municipality, is about 9 000 400, that there are countries in the immediate vicinity, a neighbourhood with a substantial number of citizens. If the mayor's salary goes up your nose, let's do it out here. How much is the mayor's salary? What's 212 times 12? So let's give the average, let's say, 3,000, and then we get to 7.6 million euros. Did I do the right thing? Yeah, I guess. That's the annual salary for mayors. They now received more than 13 million from Strukl — the congregations. We're talking about these numbers, ladies and gentlemen! So if all the mayors are volunteering, we're left with 7.6 million, let's make it 8 million. We're talking about these numbers! Speaking of mayors, we're supposed to like each other. Yesterday – and I think on the committee – I spoke about Velenje Mayor of Velenje, Mr Bojan Kontic, to my former fellow Member – an outstanding politician, an outstanding mayor. He himself calculated and fixed what the Law on Community Financing imposes and the appropriate methodology; 652.6 euros is the average that the municipalities could live with today. Now we have 130 euros less on the government's proposal. That's why I'm saying that we're talking about 260 million, I'm talking about a quarter of a billion euros less money for municipalities. You'll read me the ZUJF. Of course, and then also say that we were in a free fall at the time and that we had more than 4% negative economic growth. That's why he was ZUJF! We've been spat so many times, I'm sorry, because of this ZUJF, but it just keeps going. Interesting! As we know, we have, in full consciousness, supported the Fiscal Rule Act, and we know that this law must be respected, that the European Commission, to be fair, was not exactly impressed with our 2016 budget; we do not know, we do not have 2017 reviews. Here again I underline the problem of the dynamics of reducing the structural deficit, and I hope that Mr President will attach to me when I requested yesterday that the tables I requested be drawn up at the Ministry of Finance. However, in order for the government to do something in a particular sector for the municipalities, that is not the case. That's not what I'm talking about. How many years have we been waiting on average or waiting for, say, a variety of consents? I think it is more than 40 different ministries, agencies and so on, that the municipality can adopt the spatial plan that it bloodyly needs to determine where industrial halls can be made and so on – I repeat the matter that I repeated on the committee, and I am glad that Tillen Christmas has talked about it too. We received a letter from the Mayor of Ormož, with specific invoices marked internal or data protection. Ormož municipality has 6 citizens in the protection work centre, according to local or more specifically in the training, work and protection institution. The founder of this matter is — who? Republic of Slovenia! From April to August, the cost of protecting citizens in this institution increased by 45 per cent. Is that normal? Is that normal? For example, two partners are in this institution and it is the cost of the congregation of 4 thousand euros a month. 4,000 euros a month — I know what this institution is like. But of course, the invoice must be such, because the invoice is made on the basis of a rule made by the Minister Dr. Dark, who himself says that she is aware of the problem and that she must correct the rule—but it is not. He's been gone for seven months! From April to today, when we're November! Then let the Minister say that we, the opposition, make a rule, but then we don't need a minister. Let's talk about these things! I ask colleagues from the SD Group, who were mayors, respected colleague Weber, respected colleague Han, to tell their client colleagues to tell the ministers that this rule should be made and that it should be made in light and – they cannot be such costs! They can't be. I expect that we will not discuss this in an empty way, but that we will all have at least a little sense of local self-government together, and somewhere we will find these 28 million, as needed to increase the average from 522 to 536, and that our amendment and our colleagues from the SDS will receive support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u95	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Today was here on the balcony about a hundred mayors. All these mayors were elected at least once by the majority electoral system, with their name and surname; let us look at us, some of us have been elected in this way several times, and we must not be anymore. Most of those who have come to parliament have been chosen on the basis of the name and surname of someone, but not on the basis of their name and surname, we can also say for ourselves, but a little less. Therefore, we could respect their opinions, respect them, and appreciate them according to all that they have done so far because they have something to show, and also because of them, because of their work they have been chosen. Local self-government is autonomous under the European Charter on Local Self-Government. Therefore, neither the Government nor Parliament can repeal the municipal decree, but only the Constitutional Court. The State must also provide financial resources for the work or tasks assigned to local self-government after the stopover if they do not have their original income. The Law on Local Self-Government, which is currently in force, says that it is a condition for the establishment of municipalities, because some of you talk about how much they are and compare them with Russia – why with Russia, because under some criteria they are comparing us now with some banana republics according to economic freedom and similar criteria. Why are we not comparing ourselves with neighbouring countries that have local self-government for 50, 60 and more years, have experience, have a different level of local self-government – we cannot have one. Why not, who fears these provinces and the leaders of the provinces? In the Law on Local Self-Government, we currently have only a criterion of 5,000 inhabitants, without any other criteria. This is said to be a few blocks in Ljubljana, when it has 5,000 inhabitants, not a primary school, not a church, not a kindergarten, not a post office, no other things, it can be a municipality. Are we then more advanced than neighbouring countries with a tradition of local self-government? That there's too many congregations. I was elected four times, for 13 years as mayor and even in the Community of Municipalities for some time, and I can say that it is not true. The problem is the jurisdiction of the congregations. You can't set someone up, limit them organizationally, and then charge them with no task, and don't provide funds for these tasks. We must be aware that municipalities provide basic public economic services, such as drinking water supply, wastewater treatment and waste management, municipal roads management and too long, is not enough time to tell you here what anarchy is like in these areas. That 30 percent of the Slovenians — how much water we have, how water we are, does not have healthy drinking water — is a shame in the 21st century. If we do not have wastewater treatment and waste water treatment in order, probably more than 60 per cent in Slovenia. Therefore, we will probably also pay the fines of the European Community because we have promised to settle the deadline, and we do not know exactly which time. How do we deal with waste? Not to mention municipal roads. 17 municipalities have repealed decisions on the categorisation of municipal roads by the Constitutional Court. Administrative units shall not issue building permits if they do not have an investor's access. What did we do? We have various dedications, lawsuits, experiences like this and different. Someone puts a car on a municipal road, if it's his property, no one can move it. Pika. That's legal practice. Does anyone wonder if that's right? We have a state of law. We do, strictly but, is public interest really that low? [[…]] As far as the employment in the congregations is concerned. Too many employees. One of the former colleagues says after one county term that he has 27 employees, he would need 17. 10 have surpluses, but can't forgive them in any way, are protected by legislation like all public administrations, as we said in our country as nomadic bears. How can you for a false reason forgive him if he does nothing? If he doesn't do anything, he can't do anything wrong. And if you fire him, he comes back after two years because he gets a lawsuit in court, and you have to pay him everything, give him a salary for all those years he hasn't worked. Let's not do anything. Why not? Three months' wages of retirement and a nice greeting. Just like in the economy! We have now loaded or the unions have chosen the 150 million wage increases in the public sector and have simply charged 13 million more costs to the municipalities. If you are saying that you can increase wages in the public sector due to economic growth and that there is no problem, the crisis is over, it is slowly recovering and we will be able to share more in the future. Then why don't you share it with the congregations? Why don't you give more money to those who provide the basic goods that our people need to have, not to talk about providing better conditions for the development of the economy, such as trade zones, municipal equipment for foreign investors to come and be new jobs. Everything kind of stops, in all areas we have things unsettled. If this is true, let us also give the municipalities how much money they need to build sewer systems and cleaning facilities. Some say it takes more money than building a highway. When are we going to have this built? If you're saying that the crisis is over, I don't know how much you've done now – open the scrotum even for the municipalities, not just for public sector salaries! I have already said here that I don't mind the pay being raised, because for the responsible places in the public sector there are too low wages today and you can't get good workers, responsible, hardworking for money, for the wages we now get, and if we go from the President of the Government down to all the ministers. I've already told the board that there's a gunman in the 15th grade; the 16th grade is the minimum wage. After 20 years of experience, there should be a master of scrapers, tools or the like who pays at least €700,800 net in the economy. But he can't have one in the army? These need to be raised. But those who do nothing in public administration should be given a shoe, not a higher salary. Therefore, in some ways, the municipalities should raise the average for at least the 13 million, which means around EUR 6 at average, at least that much should be understood by the municipalities and those mayors. 6 euros for those – if not 525 and 522 – would be fair and fair. The municipalities are increasingly involved in kindergartens, two-thirds pay the care of municipalities and now the price will increase at the expense of the higher salaries of employees in kindergarten, all regulations are laid down by the state, the municipality only opens a scone and quietly either has no influence as founder of the establishment or director or any other thing in primary schools. Just pay, nothing more than the state says. However, we have one of the richest systems of preschool education and primary education in Europe according to standards. The government is just gearing up; if money is for one another, it should be for the other, but I think it is more necessary for the other than for those first ones for which you untied the scrotum without problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u97	The word has magic. Ange Logar. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you, President. Today the people were there, I don't know if you SMC Members saw it because you call them back, but in fact today the people were up there. They have, I think, quite accurately told me how they feel about the decision of the coalition and the government not to provide the municipalities with sufficient funds. Previously, a colleague of Ferluga's said a relatively unfortunate sentence: whether or not to be liked by the mayor. In Hamlet, everyone died; Hamlet's father died; Ophelia died; Laerte died; Hamlet's mother died; Hamlet died; and Hamlet died. I wonder how this story can be included in the average debate. In the end, Horatio died even Hamlet himself. Now I don't know who that last ally of SMC you're appealing to with this story. Who is it? Who is the one you're in this fight for justice with 522 euros? Today, it was clear how many congregations they needed to survive. The fact that this voice is ignored and there is no agreement with them not to negotiate with them, not to negotiate with the people, while the public sector, which represents a smaller part than the municipalities, is a mistake of this government. 536 euros says they need it; that's what they need. The parishioners who were here today, I don't know 100 or how many of them, they were elected by absolute majority, 50 per cent of the voters voted for the mayor. I went to watch a little earlier, Comrade Ferlug, and 3 000 349 voters voted for you, while Fištrovec’s colleague, who is up there, voted for you 22 000 — seven times more than you! And you deny Mr. Fischer his applause when the amendment is proposed to raise the average to 536? If this is not a clear signal for the government to negotiate and negotiate with those who actually speak to the field, in this case they are mayors. [[…]] Once again, they have a say in this, and the task of the government and the coalition is to listen to these words.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u99	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Get the Secretary of State ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you for your kind word, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished mayor! Today, when we talk about the development of municipalities, local communities, the first time in the National Assembly was the fact that there were 100 mayors among us, and, of course, when elections, local elections, we know a lot about the mayors. Which client got more, which might have been a little bit of ours, but it wasn't much of ours. Today, colleagues and colleagues were hiding in the National Assembly because they were afraid to meet our mayors who were sitting on the balcony; of course, for one simple reason, because there is no answer to your work. That's a fact. What Mr Marko said — I highly appreciate it — I hope today that the mayors did not listen to him, that they were somewhere on coffee. It is unacceptable to impose more and more pressure on local communities and to take each day or every year! Our mayors are the ones who solve everyday problems when others hide. That's a fact. There were 100 mayors on the balcony today. When will the Prime Minister sit or stand in the National Assembly when 100 economists arrive? Then there'll be an alarm to make fun of. I think it's irresponsible what the mayors experienced in the National Assembly today, because they didn't behave properly. That's the only thing. This is disrespect for the mayors, and no one wanted to negotiate with them or listen to them. However, they solve the daily problems of our citizens, citizens, as a result of citizens and citizens. I suggest that this amendment be accepted, that's the minimum. Let me say that I will not think about it; on the other hand, when we have paid our wages, in a municipality of 14,000 inhabitants, 66,000 more is required for the salaries of teachers. The budget cannot bear this, as a result it is passed on to citizens. Last week a citizen met me on the sidewalk and stopped me and asked me if she could get migrant status. I ask her why, but she said because I will have a better standard in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u101	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. The agreement always requires two, and the desire to reach agreement with the congregations has been sincere, supported by many efforts over the months to hear each other’s needs, to understand each other’s needs, and to find an appropriate middle way. Today we are talking only about the average, but the negotiations with the municipalities were not just about averages, we were negotiating an investment transfer. This year, this year, it represents 1 per cent of the eligible expenditure, i.e. around €11 million, and 1 per cent, €11 million, was agreed to be paid in 2016. This is the content of this year’s agreement with the congregations. In this year's negotiations, we offered 5 per cent of the investment transfer, that is 55 million; 22 million in grants and 33 million in favourable returns. Affordable means a zero-percent interest rate and a repayment period between 7 and 10 years. This solution is irrespective of the fact that there is no agreement with the municipalities included in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. We also offered municipalities to change the way investment transfers were shared between municipalities, so that more grants could be allocated to financially weaker municipalities and more financially stronger municipalities would participate through favourable returns. The municipalities were not prepared to accept such changes. We have further agreed that investment transfer funds can also be used for certain purposes for which it is unclear whether or not they can or cannot be used in the current legislation and this is also regulated in the supplementary draft budget. We further agreed to provide municipalities with a legal basis so that they can amend or supplement this year's decision on the award of compensation for the use of building land, which they are not allowed to do in the light of the legal basis currently in force. This is also included in the supplementary draft budget. We have agreed with the municipalities on 26 measures that reduce the cost to municipalities at annual level of approximately €25 million – 24.5. For €5 million, the effects have already been taken into account in setting the average for the second half of this year, with 20 million additional effects. Most of these measures will be implemented by the end of this year, some at the beginning of next year. It is true, however, that these 20 million financial effects can be realised if there is a willingness, on the other hand, to use the instruments and opportunities offered. It should be said that these savings concern not only the legal obligations of the municipalities but also their investment activities. When we talk about the average, if I focus now on the proposed amendments, then it should be noted that the average means to enforce or finance the legal or, if you want, the regular tasks of the municipalities. This year, the municipalities have a billion and 77 million funds available for this purpose. I am talking about the funds represented by 54 per cent of the revenue collected and additional financial compensation. For 2016, the proposal for a solution included in the budget and in the law on budget implementation amounts to a billion and 75 million and a half. So, for about 2 million less than this year. For 2017, income from income from income is being strengthened and only from these 54 per cent of the income belonging to municipalities is a reasonable consumption of billions and 85 million. All of these funds, or all of these activities, have been carried out so far in order to be taken into account in order to take account of the needs of the congregations, but also to take into account public financial constraints. We must pay particular attention not only to the amended Article 148 of the Constitution, but also to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted in relation to the average, which has already been established in the past by the law on the implementation of the budget. When we talk about how much community commitments are increasing at the expense of public sector wages, I would like to say two things. I am a member of the wider government negotiating team myself, and I have repeatedly asked the representatives of the congregation who their representative is on this broader negotiating team. The municipalities have their own representative, but in all these years, I have not even been able to get to know him. When I asked the representatives of the congregations at the negotiations, who is it, how can we connect, how can we enforce their interests in that negotiating team — do you think I found out the name of this person? I didn't! However, if we are looking at only financial effects, according to our assessment, wage measures in the public sector for municipal budgets amount to 13 million and a half extra expenditure. I mentioned earlier that only measures that are still in place or in implementation provide savings of EUR 20 million. You've spoken a lot of good things about the Public Finance Balance Act. Let me remind you that at the time when the ZUJF was adopted in the National Assembly, there was also a requirement on the table for municipalities to adopt the same law in order to reduce the costs of municipalities by at least 10 per cent. Do you know when this law was passed? February this year, not in 2012, but in February this year. The effects may not be as they were assessed, but not because the marriage would be bad or because the proposals would be bad, but because of what I mentioned earlier, the opportunities offered by the law must also be exploited. Perhaps only with regard to the observation that the European Commission has not assessed the budget framework or budget for 2017. In accordance with European rules, the European Commission is assessing the current year whether we will complete it in accordance with the budget adopted and next year, 2016. Under European rules, the draft budget plan for 2017 will only be submitted to the European Commission in October of next year. In short, our assessment is that the Government has done everything in its power to take action against the municipalities to ensure their normal functioning, and we are also eliminating administrative obstacles or unnecessary costs to the municipalities. Believe me, this is not an easy task. The adoption of the agreement would facilitate and maintain the momentum that we have finally been able to establish between the ministries in order to actually implement these measures at an accelerated rate. The non-conclusion of the agreement will, in essence, make it difficult to work on this, although we are prepared and intend to pursue such efforts, irrespective of the non-conclusion of the agreement. In this set of further arrangements, I also consider our joint conclusion, which we have reached together with the representatives of the municipalities, that the methodology for calculating the average is inadequate to be corrected, and we agree to address this problem immediately at the beginning of next year. For this reason, I expect that for 2017 we will be able to agree on matters already on the basis of a revised formula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u103	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you, President, for your word. In the opposition's debate, they tried to show us and tell us that the coalition does not understand local self-government, that it does not know the European Charter, that it does not know the Constitution in this area. But I think it's just a matter of how someone interprets it. The argument that we do not act or that we do not understand the mayors, because we do not have any mayor, is that the debate led by the opposition today is mainly political. I think that just because we don't have any mayor, we can look at things more objectively and less politically. Just as we have established local self-government in our country, it is very good, it has had very good effects, the municipalities have achieved rural development and the whole local environment, somehow united, because the fact is that the differences were very large. It is also true that, in view of the situation in question, the municipalities, as well as local self-government, need to change, as do other activities. This year, the Ministry of Public Administration, together with the other ministries, prepared a number of measures to rationalise local communities. In order not to be a criminal, there are many municipalities in 212 that have already rationalized their business, we have about 100 municipalities associated with the community administration. But there's still a lot to do on the same segment. The report prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration on how municipalities use these options shows that very little use has been made of these options. We do not speak in coalitions or think about the need to abolish congregations. They do not need to be abolished; their rationalisation, their integration is needed. But what is absolutely necessary - and it is not necessary for us to create landscapes, because this can essentially create a new bureaucracy - is substantive integration. There is no reason why the municipalities would not already do this and add added value at the local level and also provide a much easier and more rational service and provide it for their citizens and their citizens. The attack on the public sector; that by signing an agreement with the unions, this means simultaneous attack on local self-government, because it also belongs in one segment of the public sector, and, as far as it may be in some segment, that burden for them is also a benefit for local self-government. We are not talking too much about the Constitutional Court's decision, which was adopted this year on the averages, which clearly states that municipalities have to finance the main part themselves, because State funding means, as a consequence, a violation of the Constitutional Court's decision; if I translate it the other way around. So all of this says that there is an urgent need for change in the field of local self-government. It is not always a matter of regulatory change, as I believe that the legal basis for the enforcement of local self-government is good, that practice needs to be changed, and that the concept of local self-government autonomy, in particular, needs to be changed. This rebellion we have experienced today in the mayors. If there were a hundred of them in the National Assembly, it means that there were more than half of those who did not. But I understand this resistance, because whenever changes are trying to be introduced, there is a resistance first, no change is taken immediately, there is a resistance first and, of course, there is a slow adjustment later. I see this today as the first phase of changes that will take place at local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u105	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is not clear, however, that the opposition is also saying something critical because, just as we have spoken, we understand the concept of local self-government and the duty of the state to local self-government. It's about self-government. I therefore wonder once again when, however, we will be able to place more resources from the state budget to the local communities. For I am concerned when I look at macroeconomic developments in the European Union or in those countries where the Slovenian economy is most targeted. I am very concerned, given that in fact Germany is our most important economic, of course also political partner and that the German economy is cooling off. In the last quarter of which we have data, the economic growth in Germany is 0.3%, the quarter before that was 0.1% higher. So this is about cooling down and, of course, I'm worried about how these trends are going to go forward, because the undeniable fact is that if it comes, God forbid, until the German economy cools down, of course, this will also be known in our economic activity. Why may we be too loud — according to the assessment of some coalition members — that we are too loud in the opposition when we talk about this law when we talk about the financing of the congregations? Look, this isn't the fault of this coalition and this government, but it's just that all the time we have a country on our own, it doesn't go well with the deadlines, as I often say, consistent regional development. Here all the averages fall, all the averages fall. I agree with the Secretary of State who said that income tax revenues are rising. Of course, they are growing, and in this they are also taking part in the congregations. Of course, on average, congregations also receive more. Here I would ask, because I am the opposition, I have no data, whether the Ministry of Finance can get us data in statistical regions, for how much and how income is moving across statistical regions. We are mainly loud and critical Members coming from the periphery of rural communities. As a result, when we were in the government and had Dr. Bayuk's Minister of Finance, we achieved that we had significantly increased the funding of the municipalities and adapted the formula so that the rural and peripheral municipalities received more. That's all this is about. It's not about mayors, I don't see mayors in front of me, I see citizens and citizens in front of me. Let's look at the indicators that actually the Slovenian periphery is slowly evolving or stagnating compared to the centre. Theoretically everything would be okay if we all moved to the center and everyone got jobs here, like the center of Slovenia today, and then everything will be okay. Is that possible? But is that what we want? Almost not. So, I'm worried about the peripheral municipalities, I'm worried about the Slovenian periphery, I'm worried about the countryside, and that might make us too loud after some of the assessments of the coalition MPs and Members. I am also afraid of this division of Slovenia into the Eastern and Western cohesion region, and, as I can see now, these tensions are present that at the end of the day the Eastern cohesion region, which should receive more money from Europe, I fear that when we draw the line, the result will actually be reversed. I am very afraid of this, and we who come from the periphery are probably also from a country worthy of any confidence – we are telling the truth, I assure you, and it would be good for the government and government to listen to us. I wish you, the Modern Centre Party, that you will have many mayors at the next local elections, I can honestly say that this is very important and very useful for the conduct of state policy. Because they're going to tell you honestly where the problems are, what the problems are, what needs to be done. For a reason, I have repeatedly mentioned Mr Bojan Kontic, Mayor of Velenje Municipality, who says that the average should be 652.6 euros. I believe that there is no money, I believe that it is not going to work; it is not because there is no money, because we deal too much with the spending side, but not with the economy that creates to get more on the income side – say, the new 60,000 jobs – then we would probably have a more friendly view and talk here today. But that's why we talked about amendment 536, for example, maybe 530, because I talked to some mayors, the Association and the Community of Municipalities to agree to that. Figure it out. I told you what the numbers were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u107	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? Yes, please report. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. I am very sorry that this whole debate on ZIPRO has actually turned into a debate on the average for municipalities. It is true that this issue, which has not been harmonised, in coordination and agreement, must always be open to at least two parties to talk and then to adopt some common conclusions. I am not going to talk about whether the government party had negotiators who were willing to listen and hear local self-government, from some of their conclusions and information that I got, in fact, was willing to hear, but that the mayors then decided and set the ultimatum, and how much money they were willing to talk about. However, I would say something else, which is not about the average for the congregations, but about matters of strategic importance for the parliamentary group that I belong to and for the party that I belong to. For us, one matter is very crucial, perhaps even a symbolic act, it is the reconciliation of pensions. We are aware that a number of pensioners will not be satisfied with this harmonised pension, because it will be possible to overcome the censorship which, on the other hand, prevents them from obtaining annual regress. I told you earlier what this regression is all about, not for the sea and the holidays. For most of these people who get it, it's actually money to buy; because they can actually buy what they need in winter, it's heat. In view of the fact that in the past there has been one case that has in some way had a very negative impact on the pension allowance; in 1997 there was a reduction in the rate of contribution of employers – I repeat this many times and will repeat it again in this national assembly. This means that, at the time, the pension register had enough money to enable it to make a semi-contributory contribution to promote the economy and that we are the only country in the European Union that does not have the same level of contributions from employers and employees. In the future, when the budget had to make such a high amount as this last billion 400 million, it is simple and simple to say that money lacks to be added to the budget. That's right. But once, one government made such a move, and then the other never fixed it. But I know it's very hard to do this right now. That's perfectly clear to me. That is why we in our parliamentary group and in our party see a solution in the demographic fund. We expect, Mr Minister, and we expect the Demographic Fund Act to come to the National Assembly as soon as possible, of course we will coordinate in advance and then we will adopt it in the National Assembly. We expect him to be at least the kind of opportunity we expect him to be; at least so. I will not say that he will have to be fully adapted to us and to our interests, but that we will find a compromise here between the two negotiating parties. I have already made it clear in the position of the Group of Members that I am very sorry that the government side and representatives of the local communities have not agreed on and reached a common conclusion as to how many averages. I am aware, however, that the state does not actually have enough money to satisfy all the interests and needs. Well, at some point, you have to decide what you're gonna do and what you're not gonna do. You know, it was very nice to see them, and I also told them that they also accept, mayors, mayors accept their budgets for every year, some for two years, some for just one year, and well know how this thing is served. So the reactions weren't the best, but let's leave, they had their own interest, and they just expressed it that way, because they didn't have the opportunity to speak on that speaker or in that bench. But I'm completely wrong. Given that there were quite a lot of indications that there were no arguments. There are arguments for certain cases and if we take the agreement between the public officials and the government on the increase – from the envisaged 2.5 per cent increased to 3.47, which means an increase of about 13.5 million euros in obligations of the municipalities. This means that the average should increase by at least 2 per cent, the average was 522, which is to say, the average should be increased by 2 euros in order to meet these pay needs, which would be 524. The government's offer was 525. And maybe there's only one comparison that we're not all going to have a bad feeling, even though I'm saying it would be nice and it would be good for us to coordinate, but still have a few more data. See, all three state cashiers do not actually have – and to a lesser extent the issue has grown than, for example, the revenue of the state treasury. For example, 17.6 percent of municipalities had higher incomes in this recent period, and more than 14 percent of municipalities in the crisis period had higher expenditure on employees. This means that the country had to reduce in this area and almost 9 per cent of the expenditure on goods and services had to be increased in municipal administrations. This is said to have increased some costs and, on the other hand, reduced costs. We were not as purely in the same position as the local community and the state. It is possible to consider this; I am proud of all the investments made by local communities, but we have been very fortunate that there have been a lot of investments at the local level in the past period, where 85% of the funds were provided by the European Union from cohesion funds or other funds and by the country. The local communities had to provide 15%. In such a form of funding, it is possible to make investments at the final stage. Here we can also assess the contribution of the European Union, as well as the countries and at the same time local communities, and because of these investments and these inflows of funds to the local municipal treasury, it was felt that such problems as we had in the country — that is, the recession, the economic crisis — could not be felt in the congregation. Finally, under the line: I would be very happy if the local communities, together with the Government, would agree on some average. At this point, nothing would be wrong with me if it were 525, which I would agree with. In view of the fact that the local communities have refused to do so, we will support ZIPRS in our parliamentary group as well as ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u109	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 73 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 37th item of the agenda, i.e. for sure today. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 37. This is for a re-decision on the Public Order Act. The State Council is at the 17th extraordinary session of 2. 11. 2015 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again on the Public Procurement Act before being declared. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Alojz Kovška.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u110	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will not read the request of the State Council in full, because there is simply not enough time to present it in such a form and I have no doubt that the position of law in the form proposed will be supported. However, I want the opinion of the State Council to be heard and to avoid that this opinion is just a narrow stakeholder group, let me say that the veto has been supported by such interest groups of workers, employers, craftsmen, farmers, free professions and even local interests. What exactly do we read to the law? Simply and briefly: The Public Procurement Act does not commit enough contracting entities to responsible treatment of public money because it does not establish criteria for subjective and objective liability. Secondly, it is clear to the law that it still allows for the selection of contracting entities mainly according to the lowest price criterion. Otherwise, the law should take account of the European directive, which refers to the fact that most of the public contracts must be awarded or awarded to a small and medium economy and another directive which speaks of the need to take account of the economic price. But these conditions for objectively determining the objective price have been left in the law and remain a fundamental condition of the lowest price. While the law explicitly speaks of areas where the lowest price should not be the only criteria, these are programming, translation, architectural services and consulting services, but these services or those procurements represent a minor amount as a percentage of all public contracts, otherwise they formally comply to some extent with the European Directive, but are practically nothing. The Public Procurement Act also overly lays down criteria for the elimination of offers at unrealistically low, dumped prices. I will not waste time here to describe how this is set, but if we take the 50 % lower price than the average price offered, and if we take the criterion 20 percent lower than the second slightly higher price than that of the lowest price offered, then it is clear to everyone who deals with the economy or trade that these criteria are unrealistic, overly volatile and allow a huge room of manoeuvre for automatic elimination of those who appear on the market with dumping. Neither does the Public Procurement Act establish a system for determining the real costs of public procurement on the basis of the legalisation of objective criteria, such as criteria and standards. Dear Members and Members, it has been repeatedly said that at least we do not have them for the construction of these standards. This country has existed for a quarter of a century, and no government has enacted these standards, and I say they exist, although they say otherwise at the Ministry of Public Administration. This is the purchase there that I brought with me to prove physically that these criteria and standards exist, that in the real sector with the adjective, and subscribers handling their own money, these criteria are still taken into account when issuing contracts. When we talk about the public sector, of course, it is different. We have never claimed that these standards are legal, but we claim that before the Public Procurement Act changes, these standards should be adopted and introduced into the Slovenian legal system. Without these standards, it is difficult to demand the subjective responsibility of the one who prepares the contract because he simply has no support, what he orders and at what price. Furthermore, we argue that the Public Procurement Act allows for the continuation of Slovenian uniqueness, poor procurement practices for companies that are, in fact, intermediaries and do not have their own capacity to execute a public contract. When the legislator claims that it must not be involved in relations between the contracting authority and subcontractors – if they exclude intermediaries, then this involvement would not be necessary. Your Honor, that's all. The non-payment of subcontractors, which is legal or legal with the possibility of an agreement between the contractor and the subcontractor on a direct payment, is, in fact, pardon the term, larifari. Since all those requiring direct payments are already excluded in the process of selecting subcontractors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u111	The request was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u112	President, thank you for your word. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 28th emergency meeting. 11. 2015 addressed the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Public Procurement Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly and adopted at its 12th regular session of 27. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The request was accepted by the Council of State at its 17th regular session 2. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The representative of the Council of State presented the reasons for the request in more detail in the introductory explanation, stressing that the State Council of the Public Procurement Act did not support it because it did not, in his view, provide adequate solutions to the problem present in the public procurement system and did not address the key shortcomings of the previous sectoral law. In some areas, the Public Procurement Act makes the situation worse, such as for example in the area of subcontractors' payments, thereby exacerbating payment non-discipline. The State Council further pointed out some, according to the State Council, of the greatest shortcomings of the law. In its presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the State Council's statements in the request concerned questions relating to the assessment of the appropriateness of legislation which were of a substantive nature and exceeded the scope of the SPS's tasks, and therefore did not specify the reasons and thus the requirements of the State Council. Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar said the government rejects the findings of the State Council. In the process of adopting a proposal for a law lasting one year, coordination was carried out with more than 50 stakeholders and most comments were taken into account. He further stated that it was a system law which primarily governed procedural rules and could therefore not be affected by other areas already governed by sectoral legislation, primarily the Bond Code. It also introduces exclusion criteria for a provider in breach of contractual obligations, unjustifiably acquires information, conveys misleading reasons, does not pay taxes or its offer is unusually low and otherwise. The Public Procurement Act provides for the obligation of direct payments to subcontractors, if required, in the field of services and construction, while in other cases the rights of subcontractors shall be guaranteed by a declaration from the main contractor and subcontractor to settle all mutual obligations. Infringement of this means sanctions prescribed in the law. In the debate, the Coalition Members said they did not see any new professional reasons against the Public Procurement Act since its adoption at the meeting of the National Assembly. The main objective of the law is to increase flexibility and simplify procurement procedures with greater involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises, to ensure greater transparency and to prevent corruption. The opposition MPs said that there was a lack of additional safeguards in the law, insurance of the situation, and in particular the provision of compulsory direct payments to subcontractors. They also questioned whether the law adequately addressed the issue of court suppliers. Following the final discussion, the Committee adopted, with the necessary majority of all members and members of the Committee, an opinion that the Public Procurement Act was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u113	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law, that is to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! Let me just re-explain the essential arrangements introduced by the Public Procurement Act and point out that this is a system law governing public procurement procedures, i.e. the cost-effectiveness, transparency and efficiency of public procurement, but we cannot do so by this law and must not interfere with different areas such as building legislation, bond relations, because this would actually exceed the scope of this law. At the very beginning, the users of the law, the Chamber of Commerce, contracting authorities and representatives of the small economy are at different points of view, so after almost one year of coordination with all stakeholders – as said, over 50 different stakeholders have been identified in these coordinations, over 350 pages of the reasoned comments have been received and responded to – and we have come to a solution in the form of this law, which we consider to be a reasonable compromise and offers proportionate protection to all stakeholders involved in the procurement process. The law is, we stress, uniform for both classical and infrastructure procurement, which means that it is shorter and more transparent, procedures are simplified, business transparency is increased, and we introduce the cost-effectiveness of the procurement even more, since the only criterion for awarding the contract under this law is the most economically advantageous offer and there is no provision in law for the lowest price as the only or binding criteria of choice. It is very important that in this law we have also tightened the conditions for dealing with social dumping and low prices, so the law allows for the elimination of low offers compared to real market prices. It requires the exclusion of non-payments of social obligations, requires the exclusion of tenderers who commit a work-related offence twice, to terminate the contract if an infringement of environmental, social or labour legislation is found and requires the establishment of an unusually low offer if the price does not comply with labour and social legislation. Therefore, an offer which does not include labour costs at the intended level as provided for by the law is excluded; and this is required. At the same time, the law also preserves the protection of subcontractors in many ways. They may be direct payments and are mandatory if the contractor so wishes. This cannot be assessed by the contracting authority, compulsory payments are made at the request of the operators — if required, they are also mandatory. Sub-contractors shall be required to nominate subcontractors for construction and services in order to avoid non-transparent transactions with subcontractors and for all orders where the subcontractor does not require direct payment, it is mandatory that the main contractor and the subcontractor confirm receipt of payments by declaration. However, if the contracting authority does not receive this declaration or if it may even be false, such an operator or such tenderer shall be excluded from the procurement procedures for three years. It's an extremely rigorous sanction. Once again, the economic most favourable price is as the only criterion of choice, but if the offer is abnormally low, the European Directive and the case law allow for the elimination of such offers. In the cases that I have previously listed, the elimination of such offers is also mandatory, so these mechanisms for regulating the area of public procurement are very strong. Let me stress another requirement, which has also been the subject of debate, that the tenderer can no longer refer to the capacity of third parties and must have its own references, including from tenderers and subcontractors. The contracting authority shall also require the main tenderer to carry out the key work on his own. These are also important weapons in the direction of so-called engineering companies that, practically without employees, could compete in calls with foreign reference. In this context, let me stress that the law has been harmonised, that compromise, in my view, is an important step forward, that we introduce two European directives by means of this law, that we also need to take care of the entire legal order in which we put it, and that we are fully aware that the law cannot solve procedures or bad practices because of the poor skills of the contracting authorities. Therefore, the basic activity of our ministry in the coming months is to support, direct and educate contracting authorities so that they can prepare themselves on the basis of this law, which provides powerful tools, including quality proper public procurement, leading to quality procurement and rational use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u115	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for the transfer of views. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u116	Dear President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today we are again deciding on the law concerning a number of bodies, primarily at the national and local levels and societies, both small, medium and large, and this is the Public Procurement Act with code 3. At European level, public procurement was regulated by the 2004 rules, which needed to be reformed and simplified, and in particular to improve their effectiveness for both business operators; this is said to be for contracting entities and businesses. In February last year, the procurement reform at the level of the European Union was completed and two directives were adopted, one for the regulation of public procurement on the so-called classic procurement and the other for the regulation of the infrastructure area. We need to implement them in our legal order by 18 April next year. News such as procedural information will certainly contribute to greater transparency in public procurement and reduce risk corruption. All correspondence will be carried out by electronic means without the use of plain mail. Simplifications shall be made in such a way that they are carried out exclusively in the direction of greater efficiency and transparency of the procedures themselves. As from 2017, it will be mandatory to submit tenders electronically to the central purchasing authorities, as well as to all contracting authorities as from April 2018. In particular, it should be noted that in the future it will be possible to choose the best offer and not only the cheapest one, which has often been heard by a number of well-founded critics. When awarding a contract, the contracting authority will be able to set social criteria, separate and more flexible rules are introduced in the infrastructure area. A single European procurement document will help to reduce the number of documents required to select operators. There are even more new amendments to the Public Procurement Act 3 as the proposed amendments to the two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council have addressed a number of controversial issues that have now been raised or so far. Simplified solutions eliminate unnecessary complex procedures, increase legal certainty and promote wider use of green public procurement. However, new developments are making it possible for the public procurement market to be as open as possible to the European Union, which is particularly important during the financial crisis in which we are located. As regards the veto of the Council of State, the following. It follows from the bond code that only the main contractor selected is in full compliance with the contracting authority for the performance of the contract. The contracting authority is not in any legal relationship with the subcontractor, as it is not a contracting party. The Public Procurement Act is a legal provision governing the procedure for the selection of construction and service providers and suppliers of goods. This means that the primary law governs procedural rules for choice. The Public Procurement Act also provides that the choice of tender shall be made on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer, which represents the best price-quality relationship. The directive itself provides that the price or cost must always be part of the criterion and this is also based on case law. It should be pointed out that this law binds many different contracting authorities. It requires a variety of objects or services or construction, so it would be pointless to ban the price as the only criterion. A few more words about subcontractors. It was already explained by the government's representative, but he would have allowed it. If the main contractor fails to pay, fails to make a declaration or make a false statement, it is an offence punishable by a fine; and what is most important is to be included in the records of economic operators with negative references, which consequently means exclusion from the procurement procedures for three years. On the basis of the above, the SMC Group reiterates its support for the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u117	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u118	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings again, dear colleagues and colleagues! At the previous meeting, the National Assembly adopted the Public Procurement Act, at which, at the beginning of this month, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a request for re-decision. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have pointed out over time that the law should be based primarily on the so-called smart use of public funds. We must not forget that over the past year, we have spent as much as €3.7 billion in public money for public procurement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have warned that we agree that levers must be set that will enable greater efficiency, efficiency, transparency and efficiency of public procurement. We have also expressed our doubts that this will be fully achieved by the proposal, which was then also adopted. We proposed ten amendments. All amendments, except the amendment, which provides that the contracting authority must inform all candidates within five days of the completion of the verification of its decision, have been rejected. Nor did the coalition take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out the impreciseness of this law, in the sense that this law governs two or more areas of public procurement, which will, of course, mean both for contracting entities and for operators at least the complicated and imprecise application of this law. We have also pointed out that the law, at least in our view, is all too focused on procedures and their choice, and not enough on the preparation of the tender documentation, which is mostly the subject of public procurement procedures. Public contracting authorities should be committed to responsible public procurement and adequately qualified to manage public procurement, not only to the execution of the award of the contract, but also to the procedures for monitoring the execution of the award of the contract until its conclusion. In particular, we have highlighted the area of payment to subcontractors, which, under the new regime, is significantly worse regulated than it has been so far. The contracting authority should ensure that all participants in public proceedings are paid, including all subcontractors. The law should maintain the compulsory direct payment of subcontractors by public contracting authorities, or only improve this area, rather than transforming the compulsory direct payment, at least in our understanding, into a voluntary payment. We have also warned that the unit price is not a public information but that this information is accessible to all other tenderers participating in the procedure. In the event that the contracting authority does not decide to award a contract by assembly, because the law permits it, it must explain it and include it in the tendering documents. Once again, we wanted to clarify the contracting authority's obligations to the contractor and to the subcontractor and its obligations to the subcontractor, based on the conclusion of the contracts, the payment for the work done and the notification of any changes to the contracting authority. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we also agreed with all the comments and proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We also support the State Council's comments. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we agree with the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u119	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u120	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Councillor, Colleagues and Colleagues! Once again, we have before us the Public Procurement Act, as the State Council voted with 28 votes in favour and 5 votes against the procrastination veto. The news brought by the new law on public procurement was much said at the time of the adoption of the National Assembly itself. This is an extremely important law where interests cross on the one hand of operators selling their goods or services, and on the other hand of a country that has to ensure that public procurement is transparent, cost-effective and efficient. It should be pointed out that in Slovenia they spend €3.7 billion a year on public money. The main reason for the veto of the State Council is that contracting authorities should ensure that all participants in public procurement are paid. There has also been a lot of debate in the Group of Members about this work. Some initially expressed support for the State Council's concerns at this point, but argued that the Public Procurement Act does not regulate voluntary payments to subcontractors, but that the execution of direct payments to subcontractors is still mandatory for services and construction if the subcontractor so requires. In other cases where the subcontractor does not require direct payment, the contracting authority will have to require that the main contractor and the subcontractor, by a declaration, confirm the settlement of all obligations. If the contracting authority does not receive this declaration or will be false, it is an offence under the law, where such an operator, in addition to the fine, will also be excluded from the procurement procedure for three years. The law therefore provides for direct payments, while at the same time providing sufficient guarantees not to give rise to abuse, and on the other hand it does not regulate the relationship where it is not necessary and is governed by bond legislation. As we have already said, when we present our views on the adoption of this law in the Desus Group, we particularly support the highlighted social note in the bill. The contracting authority will be able to reserve the contract for certain suppliers for all types of construction, services and goods provided by disabled companies and social enterprises employing disadvantaged workers. In addition, tenderers will still have to meet their obligations to pay workers and their contributions. Those who do not fully meet the social obligations of their employees should not participate in public procurement in our opinion. Among other things, the law provides a variety of very effective tools, such as the elimination of abnormally low offers compared to other real offers and, as has already been said, the exclusion of non-payments of social obligations or those who commit twice the same offence in relation to work. In this case, it is an extremely sharp provision which is not known in any other European country. In the Desus Group, we estimate that this is an extremely large issue in the field of public procurement, as has already been demonstrated by the practice of spending public money. Nevertheless, we conclude that the law must be given the opportunity to live in a practice that will only make it clear whether the law will have to be supplemented or amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u121	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, President. Minister, state councillor, colleagues and colleagues! Let me rephrase the point of saving and public procurement. When we continue to talk about public sector savings and reserves, we always find that we can still search and find them in the public sector of financial reserves. This is especially true when it comes to several hundred million transactions and when orders at certain points become opaque. In the past, the flow of public money through public procurement has increased. The appetites of public money increased. Sadly, though, it was because of this competition that we all lost, with the exception of some individuals. Many companies, which have been involved mainly in larger investments, have lost the most. Companies went bankrupt, workers lost their income, instead of living from work, they were forced to ask for help from the state. At the same time, we must remember the sad stories of workers who have not received an adequate payment for their work, not only to be paid or recognised for any other rights arising from their work. It is clear from the law itself that the drafting of the law has been long-standing, that coordination with stakeholders has been consistent with the text of the law. That's what our interlocutors told us, but they warned us that some of their warnings or, if you want, they didn't comply with the requirements and they're not part of the legal solutions. The comments were mainly related to subcontractors or non-payment of works carried out by companies or craftsmen, which is also the reason why the State Council voted veto. At this point, I would point out that we have acquired data on how to pay off subcontractors. No Member of the European Union shall regulate compulsory direct payments to subcontractors; rare States shall regulate payments to subcontractors in a manner similar to that governed by this Act. We follow the Republic of Austria many times, and if these data are true, our northern neighbour has not regulated the payment of subcontractors to the public procurement legislation. However, it is clear from our new legislation that there is only an obligation to nominate subcontractors, but there is no possibility of direct payment on request or of a declaration that payments have been made. This solution is comparable to our ZJN-3. Social Democrats are aware of the consequences that have arisen not only in economic fraud but also because of the unfair conduct of economic operators. However, we estimate that the solutions brought by this law can contribute to a better use of public money on the one hand than the fact that stories in such dimensions as we have seen and heard in the past due to the non-payment and exploitation of businesses and workers will no longer be repeated. I only hope that from past negative experiences we have learned something. In particular, fraud and unfair business between economic operators does not benefit anyone. In fact, it is also important to note the mere willingness of public procurement. Poorer public procurement may be due to poor knowledge of the area or to later personal benefits. Both reasons are bad, the latter are even more unacceptable, for sooner than before, all of us who live and work in our society have been harmed by such unscrupulous activities. In particular, I would like to raise the culture of business, to improve the performance of businesses through exemplary business, and to restore the reputation of businesses. Let us keep in mind many large companies that have been fulfilling for decades and have been synonymous with the quality of development and performance, and have sunk many unfortunate stories because of the greed of individuals or elites. Your Honor! We reiterate that the law itself will not have positive effects; more energy will have to be invested in the education of those preparing public procurement. In fact, it is also on the part of the contracting authorities to forward regularity as soon as possible in order to prevent the damage to businesses, workers and, last but not least, the damage to the state. As I have already mentioned, we will support the Social Democrats in the Public Procurement Act because we have estimated that it brings more positive solutions. It is necessary to monitor the implementation of the law and to detect any anomalies arising from the legal record as soon as possible. However, if marriage solutions are to be made for such or other personal gain in particular, laws that persecute them should be applied.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u123	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again! For the first time, we have not supported the United Left of the Public Procurement Act. Our support for the law was linked to support for our amendments, which, as usual, the coalition did not accept. The area of public procurement is constantly linked to the lack of transparency, suspicion of corruption and the fact that for large projects almost always there remain unpaid subcontractors and unpaid workers, and on the other hand a series of annexes, supplements and additional payments, which sometimes increase the final value of the project by 200 per cent. Since public procurement at annual level represents €3.7 billion, special attention should be paid to this area, even though we do not know exactly how much the country is paying for individual projects and goods today. If we look at the number that appears most frequently in the public, we can see that there are billions of reasons why we should pay special attention to this law. Interests are high, and the looseness of the legal provisions by those in whose pockets public funds are poured out is desirable. In the United Left, we have repeatedly warned that the bill is too ambitious and that its provisions are too loose. It is largely too ambitious in the most sensitive areas, which relate mainly to ensuring that subcontractors and workers are adequately paid. There is a lack of clear determination that companies that do not pay their workers cannot cooperate with the country. Even as the lowest prices as an exclusive criterion apply, the law does not provide clear and appropriate solutions. In order to weaken the legal provisions, the Government is in favour of a directive which is transposed by law. There is no way we can accept such an argument. Both Directives should constitute a basis and a minimum, on the basis of which we should proceed with the drafting of a law which should be adapted to our situation, but despite all the positive developments both in the directives and in the draft law, the proposal can again and again appear word too often. As we have repeatedly pointed out, the word can appear almost every major advantage of the new law. As the competent ministry has been praised, one of the key advantages of the new law is that the lowest price will not be the only criteria. The law provides that quality, cost-effectiveness can also be taken into account, and environmental and social aspects can also be taken into account. Furthermore, the priority of the new regime is also to determine the criteria which companies with a country should not operate, but rather to ensure that all companies that are in breach of labour law do not pay contributions and taxes are inequitable, have leadership which has been convicted of crimes or have proven to be extremely poor in previous projects, to prevent any involvement in projects financed by public money, the proposed set of exceptions allowing business with such companies. As far as transparency is concerned, the arrangement is similar. Given that we have the biggest problems in low-value procurement, on which procedures are extremely simplified, but they represent almost two-thirds of all public procurements, we should also pay particular attention to this work. Instead of making it clear that contracting authorities should also publish at least basic data in relation to these contracts, it is also stated here that contracting authorities may publish this information. The same provisions are also applicable to the provision of adequate remuneration for subcontractors, for subcontractors may request direct payment in accordance with the proposal. Any assurance that all workers will be properly paid does not contain law. These were just a few cases where regulation is certainly not ambitious, and for all of these cases, we have also proposed appropriate solutions in the United Left. The coalition could support them and thus avoid the veto of the State Council. Today we can no longer change the proposal, and from the debate that we have had at the time of our adoption, it is concluded that public procurement will continue to be the biggest rakrana of Slovenian health. With each major project, there will continue to be a set of closed annexes, failed companies and unpaid workers. From all the above, we could conclude that the third law is also prepared so that it can be abused. For this reason, we will not support him in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u125	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u126	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President, good afternoon! In addition to pursuing the objective of transparency and the cost-effectiveness of public spending, the Public Procurement Act, as one of the most important systemic laws, must also provide adequate protection and protection for the parties. Leaving regulation of this area to contractual freedom alone is a solution that can be appropriate for countries with highly developed democracy, regulated payment discipline and effective justice, and therefore a high level of legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not yet reach this level, but we certainly support the veto of the State Council at the adoption of the Public Procurement Act and we also support all the positions taken by the State Council in explaining the requested redecision on this law. In today’s position, I will focus on the two essential shortcomings of this law. The first is the legal framework for the elimination of tenders with an unusually low price or so-called dumped offers. from which, at first sight, it is clear that they do not even cover the costs of the material. The new regime does not provide any more effective basis for the mandatory identification of such offers compared to the current one. This will continue the practice so far when transactions are taken over by operators who are in advance aware that they have no intention of paying either suppliers or subcontractors or even both at the same time. In our position so far to the Public Procurement Act, we have stressed that the greatest flaw in the bill is the area of payments to subcontractors, which is insufficient and inadequately regulated in the law and means a strong step back compared to the current regulation of this area. The fact is, in the field of public procurement, subcontractors and subcontractors are subject to exceptional abuse. The proposal for a law still allows participation in procurement procedures for operators who do not have their capacity to carry out a public contract and are practically an intermediary in the procurement process. These are the rules of an economic society, with almost no employees and no assets, and consequently without any liability. When such an operator enters insolvency, subcontractors remain unpaid, which for independent entrepreneurs, micro and small enterprises, which are in fact only subcontractors in public procurement procedures, often means their failure. This means, at the same time, the termination of the employment of employees with such a subcontractor and the unpaid suppliers of that subcontractor remain. And the vicious circle is concluded, and there are family tragedies if you want. The proposed legal solution, which leaves payments to subcontractors only to the contractual relationship between the contractor and the subcontractor, is therefore totally inappropriate for our situation. Sub-contractors must be provided with additional legal protection in such a way that the subcontractor has the right to request payment directly from the contracting authority if he does not receive payment from the main contractor; therefore, the additional security key. In this direction, we have tabled an amendment to the 94th article of the law in New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, but the coalition has not supported it despite its awareness of the consequences of this new regime. Let me also point out here that once this law has been implemented, there will also be an exacerbation of the problem of payment non-discipline in our country. Responsibility, respectable colleagues and colleagues, the responsibility for this situation is, of course, taken over by the coalition itself. I hope that everyone who is to vote in favour of the bill today in the National Assembly is aware of this. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the Public Procurement Act even when re-voting, so, for the two reasons mentioned above, the main reason – indemnity with regard to subcontractors and ensuring their remuneration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u127	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision will take place in half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item and the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u128	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 2, 3, 26, 37, 38 and 42. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Social Security Benefits, following an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled for the second time, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 1. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. 11. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we object to a reduction in the parental protection allowance, which is extended by this amendment. Since the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, only 90 per cent of the wages paid by the mother or father in the last 12 months prior to the parental leave period have been paid, i.e. no more than 100 per cent. This novelty prolongs this measure and therefore, as socialists, we cannot support it in any way. Thus, savings have two negative consequences. On the one hand, it reduces the income of families where parents have wages that are only slightly higher than the minimum wage and, on the other hand, discourages families in which parents have similar high wages than that of their father’s parental leave. The first negative result of the extended measure is therefore an increase in the social vulnerability of low-income families. If we do not extend this austerity measure, the parents will receive a good 11 per cent higher compensation. Another negative consequence is that such measures discourage fathers from taking parental leave. As a rule, men have ever higher wages than women, and if a household has to give up 10 percent of its net salary, it simply does not pay to lose 10 percent of its salary, which is usually the father’s. As a result, Father often lands in a position to give up his parental leave. Therefore, we insist on this amendment, which is actually quite simple — if the mother or father does not pay more than the average wage, the parental compensation will be measured at 100 percent of the base. Thus, we are returning the situation to a systemic solution, which is enshrined both in Article 44 of the new law and in Article 47 of the new law. At the same time, we limit it to the extent that it cannot be subsidised by those who already have over-average incomes. Our amendment is at the same time social and systemic and during the period when Slovenian society has moved into economic growth, it is right that we devote additional resources both to addressing the situation of the most disadvantaged families and to equality within the family between the sexes, and that is exactly what this amendment is doing. Therefore, to all present here as individual Members and Members and as individual political groups, I appeal for this amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u130	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will not oppose this amendment of the United Left, nor will we support it. Since I made it very clear yesterday in the position of the Group of Members that we are opposed to this law, it would be of no use if this amendment of the United Left were supported. I also said that this amendment is not problematic for us, as far as the content is concerned, so we will abstain from voting on this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have also made it very clear that we are opposed to this law because 50 million euros are being taken from families. We cannot support such family policies as this government supports because we are aware of what family means.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u132	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 54. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing everyone that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 23. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on intervention measures in the field of labour market as a matter of urgency. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. 11. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Our amendment is a safeguard against social dumping. It gives older workers what similar measures also provide young workers or young job seekers. We are aware of the proposaler's dilemma whether to include the term of employment for an indefinite period. Indeed, a worker over 58 years of age is much more difficult to forgive for business reasons and some employees will no doubt turn this away from employment. But here we have to put on the scale of the value of Slovenian society and we have to ask ourselves if we are ready to subsidise the employees who are doing something like this. In this country, however, employment for an indefinite period is supposed to be that norm, not an exception, and it is intended to be followed by our labour market. If we allow someone not to adhere to this norm and at the same time we will subsidize it, then it is really us as a politician who are the key culprits for the rise of criminal labour relations. Forgiveness is an effective subsidy. In paying a thousand euros gross, this exemption imposes 4 000 euros on the company in two years, and this is an essential competitive advantage for the employer, even if he employs more workers. If that's not enough to get someone to take someone for an indefinite period of time, then I don't know what else we can do. But I know what we cannot do: we must not subsidise social dumping in any way. We cannot allow the company to take advantage of this exemption and send the worker back to the employment agency at his 57 years of age. If we subsidise substandard employment for hard-to-work workers, we will in practice reduce employment standards for all. Yesterday, in a debate by some of the regime's actors, we were able to hear that this solution is even good, but that it is idealistic; what this law brings is real, realistic. I can rely on this today in my defense of our amendment, by making this reality a reality of naked opportunism, which has led us to a situation where we have to subsidize even holiday jobs. Those workers who do not get a job because of this guard can be employed in the public sector or through public works. This is no reason to subsidise social dumping and therefore we continue to insist on this amendment and appeal again for the support of all political actors, but we are talking about social security and employment of older people over 55 years of age from a group of hard-working workers, and it is correct that these people who have already contributed much to this society will be given the opportunity to social security and contribute to this society by working towards some of their retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u134	We vote on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me. First, we have two more explanations for the voice, and I'm confused. First, explain the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. This bill essentially refers to one of the vulnerable target groups, which are over 55 years old. I hope that we all agree that measures in the social field may be too broad a number of times, and that we all agree that this is one of the measures that is more targeted, and therefore it is also expected to have more impact than this measure. However, we do not agree in any way with the SMC's Parliamentary Group with the amendment of the United Left. Indeed, the situation between young people and the target group over 55 years of age is completely different; while among young people in 2011 when these measures were introduced and were in fact linked to the conclusion of an indefinite contract, there were as many as 66% of young people who were employed for a certain period of time, while in the older than 55 years there were only 4% of them. The expected side effects of such a measure are also completely different between young people and older people. While young people create families and are important in this respect for an indefinite period of time and also solve housing problems and so on, the side effect in older people is completely different; it is the inclusion in the labour market, the prevention of social exclusion and so on. For this reason, we will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u136	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we understand and support measures in the field of social security of the elderly, but unfortunately the action or amendment made by the United Left will not be supported or opposed. Indeed, we believe that the State has all the levers and specific institutions that can control if there are various anomalies or abuses of such intervention measures. We will support the law itself, but we note that it is an intervention law, as is the intervention law in the field of youth, and that the Government simply does not have systemic solutions to increase employment, in particular to reduce the number of long-term unemployed. Therefore, once again: we support the law because it will bring some social security to the elderly, while at the same time calling on the Government to finally prepare systemic measures for greater employment in all age groups. Indeed, there is also an age group between 30 and 55 years of age, where there is great unemployment and that is where families are, for those who remain unemployed both father and mother, and it is also a major social crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u138	Now we can decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 52. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds under the urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2015Ki is published on e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(1). Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u139	The law on the enforcement of public funds rights proposed by the Government newises austerity measures, much more acute than austerity measures in the Public Finance Balance Act. In fact, the proposal of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds provides for the release of austerity measures in the field of child allowances when two conditions are provided for or met at the same time as the economic growth will reach 2.5 per cent of GDP, while the increase in the rate of employment in the age group will be between 20 and 64 1.3 percentage points. This condition, the last condition was met only once in Slovenia, and this was 2003. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are of the opinion or view that this condition will not be met in the near future at the same time and that the austerity measures in the area of child allowances and also later in the field of state grants are set on a permanent basis. Therefore, our amendment deletes this article, which lays down these two conditions, and returns the austerity measures to the Public Finance Balance Act, which sets only one condition, which is 2.5% economic growth. This means that all austerity measures in the field of child allowances and state grants are released by 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the same time, I would also point out that the Secretary of State did not know how to answer our question when these two austerity conditions or measures would be met, and she said that in fact people could learn this when they went to the first year of law school. I think that, as stated by the Government in its proposal, it wants to save €26 million on scholarships and child allowances at annual level, while in the Slovenian Democratic Party we remain in the position that the current legislation, namely the Public Finance Balance Act, is sufficiently clear and that the austerity measures in this economic growth can be released from 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u140	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, austerity measures in the area of family benefits are partially released, which is a child allowance and also for scholarships. With this law, 89,000 children will receive higher child support and 3 000 200 children and students will have more scholarships. This means that these measures are being partially released, but not all of them. The amendment tabled by colleagues in order to take account of economic growth alone will not, of course, be supported by this amendment because social contributions are an important source of funds for social transfers and it is therefore important that the labour market first recovers in order to strengthen its work activity and that we thus have a secure source of resources and then it is easier to release all aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u142	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(1). We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 52. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(2). We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2(3). Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposer himself admitted that the restrictions from the ZUJF should cease with 1. 1. 2016, which would mean the release of a child supplement, scholarships for minors and that this will be fully released. In the New Slovenia Group, I explained yesterday, we are recasting the amendment to Article 2 so that, irrespective of the provisions of Article 7, the child allowance does not affect the right to a state grant and its dosage. I think I showed you yesterday, and I tried to give you a sense of what scholarship means, and what a child supplement means, which is taken into account in the calculation of censorship and the award of a scholarship, height or even scholarship for students, for all students. I would like to point out that I was too clear yesterday that this arrangement, when the children's allowance is not taken into account, already exists and this has been regulated in the subsidisation of school meals, so we do not see the point in the New Slovenia Group of Members why this should not also be settled in scholarships. I also mentioned how many of these scholarships there would be. These scholarships would be from about 100 to 300, which would mean at the annual circus level of 300,000 euros to be excluded. I think it is here to settle this and to exclude it, as in subsidising school nutrition, of course, the will of you, the coalition, while stressing that if this does not happen, it is discrimination and inequality before the law for all those who do so to be included in their calculations and in the dose of the scholarship also children's allowances of younger sisters or brothers. From this point of view in the New Slovenia Group, we ask that our young students, students, can receive scholarships with which they will in a few years make an economic breakthrough because these are our young up, our knowledge, just get these scholarships, please, dear coalition, for support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u144	We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2(3). We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 52. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 23. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Investments in Public Health Services, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, following an urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 17. 11. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 5. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposed law preserves virtually all solutions to the old law with one important exception, which is in fact essential. The old law did not allow a public-private partnership, and this is also the point for which we have tabled this amendment in the United Left and for which we will not support the law if this amendment is not adopted. The idea that some private individuals will contribute to the development of our public health network by investing in public health institutions is very naive and, on the other hand, the possibility of public funds flowing into private institutions is large and dangerous. The introduction of a public-private partnership would exacerbate one of the main problems facing our Slovenian health system, which is that there is no clear gap between public and private health. The result of this confusion between public and private is the growing corruption, the irrational use of public funds, which are already too low, the emergence of amphibians and so on – as the consequences of such health are faced every day. Wherever we have dealt with public-private partnerships so far, we have had consistent problems with suspicions of corruption. Whenever we left the public service to the private sector, services were generally encouraged. The example here is the homes of older citizens, in the last few years they have mostly been built as part of public-private partnerships, and such homes are significantly more expensive than public ones, of course because investors need to be reimbursed for their investment, with some normal profit. And even after this period in which we can charge higher prices, he will still have to make some normal profit. This is not a problem with us despite regulated prices, because public homes for older people are creating large surpluses at this time, and there have been 5 million euros in total in the last year. In the United Left, we are certainly aware that the funds for investment at this time in our budget are not sufficient, but the public-private partnership does not solve this problem, they only exacerbate it. In fact, we need to look in a different direction, at different policies. If the prices of health services were to cover amortisation and allow for some surpluses, they would already be on very good track. This would be possible only if we abolish supplementary health insurance and replace it with a solidarity public contribution. Please, on behalf of our public health system, support our amendment, which we have tabled by the socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u146	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, we will oppose this amendment of the United Left for the following reasons: this area of public-private partnership is already regulated in the Public-Private Partnership Act, but it is also mentioned in the proposed law as an additional option. The fact is, for investments in health care money, I will say, "never enough" and public-private partnership is one of the possibilities offered to allow certain health services in some area, for example, to be made possible and regulated. We should definitely not run away from this option. The fact is that the legislation is already regulated and regulates all relations between public and private work, so that the fear they want to create by the United Left is not in place. That is why we will oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u148	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] So, we are voting on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 5. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 58. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2016 and other measures in the public sector under the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. We have clearly seen that this law makes no progress or any better situation in the negotiations with the public sector unions. This law means only one thing, and this is the extension of austerity measures that should be temporary or should be interventional. We do know, however, that the first agreements on austerity measures with trade unions were concluded in 2009, i.e. just six years ago, and this exceptional situation is being extended in some way. During all this time, we expected the Minister in particular to come up with a proposal that would significantly improve the situation of public servants and also eliminate the anomalies that exist within the existing system. In the United Left, we are convinced that, by prolonging the austerity measures of the objectives set by the Minister, we cannot achieve, nor can we, at the same time as the need and interpretation of the need to eliminate these anomalies, speak of the public sector being, in fact, overblown and transcendent at the moment. We know that the public sector is everything else as an obstacle to development; it is not at all responsible for the economic crisis, but rather the opposite; the economic crisis has been felt at least by those countries that have the largest public sector, for example, Denmark and Norway. If we want to maintain free quality public education, health care and other services, we must also, of course, provide the relevant conditions for the public sector that provides these services. This law, which is before us today, does not allow this, but creates exactly the opposite; it is said that the conditions for this social aspect of the country to collapse rather than to preserve it. In short, the United Left does not see this bill as an appropriate solution and we will not support or oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u150	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u151	After long-term coordination, the government and the public sector trade unions have only reached an agreement and have eliminated certain austerity measures that have cost a great deal of public servants since they were introduced. Their income or savings under this heading amount to about €800,000. Not to mention human resources malnutrition, which we are talking about at this time, especially in the police, the military and any other sector, is also lacking in equipment that is inadequate. In this way, the public sector can also represent a bar of development, as it has not been invested in for a long time in what was necessary. In this case, it is the 148 million that they have agreed on, i.e. the amount to be paid, and among other things, it is the increase in the incomes of the weakest in the public sector, that is 8,000 police officers, 7 000 soldiers that we know are currently performing extremely difficult tasks, and police officers have also started the strike. We believe that this is also one of the measures that can help to break this or a better condition. Among other things, these funds will help those civil servants, and there are 8 000 in the public sector with a minimum wage. The consensus between trade unions and the Government is important, but it is also important that appropriate measures be put in place, both for the rationalisation and efficiency of the public sector. On this basis, we will support the law in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u152	So we can vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Conditions of concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Lower Sava by Emergency Procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 8. 11. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you, President, for your word. In the SDS Group, we propose an amendment aimed at completing hydroelectric power plants at the bottom of the Sava as soon as possible. So we proposed an amendment to be done by 31. 12. 2016 complete the construction of the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and by the end of 2019 the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. This amendment is proposed to avoid financial, economic and environmental damage being done to the project. Financial damage will be done because once the hydroelectric power plant is out of operation, once it can, the state will not receive a concession and will not receive funding from the water fund. In the opinion of the concessionaires of the hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava, the two-year non-recovery of hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava would also cause economic damage of between 15 and 18 million. Finally, if hydroelectric plants are not done as soon as possible, Posavje, Brežica and the environment are threatened with environmental damage in the event of any natural accident, i.e. flood. So, honourable Members, we look forward to your support for our amendment to prevent financial, economic and environmental damage. Moreover, we believe that you will not only remain in the words of how you will someday provide funds for hydropower plants at the bottom of the Sava, that you will, with the key and support of our amendment, pursue the goal that we are pursuing all those who want to prevent the damage mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u154	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u155	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the SMC Group of the said amendment because the deadline for the construction of hydropower plants, both HE Brežice and HE Mokrice, is already set and properly corrected in Article 10 of the proposed law, which provides that these hydropower plants should be built by 2019 or obtained appropriate permits by 2020. The amendment proposed by the SDS Group therefore does not resolve this matter because the matter has already been resolved in Article 10. It should be known, however, that this law has already been burdened with hands that were not real over a period of time, so that it is now set a deadline for which we hope it will be real. Of course, the construction of the hydroelectric power plant itself depends primarily on financial resources, not so much on what is enshrined in the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u156	We therefore vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 51. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 5. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection by an urgent procedure We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act by Emergency Procedure. Since the amendments to the amended law were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to the Value Added Tax Act amends the provisions on imports of goods which simplify this procedure on the one hand and, of course, enable businesses to have greater liquidity. On the other hand, this law actually changes taxation by value added tax, namely those which were provisionally adopted in 2013, into permanent taxation. In other words, by this law, the measures taken in the wake of the biggest financial crisis, which then increased the tax rates from 20 to 22 and from 8.5 per cent to 9.5 per cent, are now measures and will actually be constant rates and people will be taxed with value added tax at significantly higher tax rates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed an amendment to this law, which was not adopted by the Committee on Finance. However, for technical reasons, this treatment was not considered. In fact, we are surprised to see such ease in dealing with such an actual substantive amendment. Permanent taxation at a significantly higher rate, by 10 per cent or by two percentage points, will affect the poorest, especially those living from day to day, pensioners, students, workers and workers with the lowest income. It is known that this law is regressive, in other words, that this tax affects those who actually have less and pay more taxes through consumption alone. This has been proven and against such a non-social policy by the Government of Mir Cerar the Slovenian Democratic Party is protesting in some way. He is protesting, above all, that we will not support this law. Once again, it turns out that there are words, and there is something completely different. In short, we are against such a way of taxing and reducing the standard of people in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u158	Ms Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Modern Centre Party, we will adopt a law amending the value added tax law, as it administratively simplifies the VAT on imports of goods and mainly physically burdens them, as they will no longer have to finance import VAT. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we welcome this as a positive measure that will increase the liquidity of a particular segment of the economy. The law also introduces VAT rates that are already in place and is thus transferred from the Law on the Implementation of the Budget to the Value Added Tax Act, thereby making VAT increases permanent. If, as of 2016, the level of rates had returned to the level before the change, this would have resulted in an annual revenue drop of about 250 million, which would have been the result for the 2016-2017 budget,7 which would have been poor for the country as such. Nevertheless, we will continue to support the restructuring of taxes and thus the decommissioning of labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u160	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We welcome the simplifications brought by this amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, mainly in import transactions. However, somehow we do not understand that this coalition, which has a centre left, is actually now finally sealing the higher levels of value added tax. Even though we opposed the rise in value added tax in mid-2013, we still somehow understood that we were in a deep crisis and that a crisis tax had to be imposed in some way. Now that we have economic growth, we have practically been recording it for two years, it is obvious that this crisis tax will continue or will not be called a crisis tax, but rather a tax with significantly higher levels of value added tax. We have also warned at the home work body and in the consideration of this amendment of the Law in the National Assembly that this law has a markedly a social character. Here we have before us, in fact, those almost 15% of the Slovenian population who live below the poverty line, here before the eyes of low-retirement pensioners, who have been shrinking for the last few years, so we strongly oppose this novel law that raises the rates of value added tax. We are convinced, however, that with different measures, including tax measures, of course, to encourage the economy to make a more business-friendly environment in order to obtain more from the state treasury for the development of the economy than these higher rates of value added tax. We are so old and so experienced that I can say that there are always left governments or left coalitions that have a full mouth of socialism, but when it comes to actions when it comes to action, it is on the side of governments that are right from the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u162	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Even in the United Left, we will not support this law, and it grieves us that the government of Mira Cerar has decided to do so. Tax policy in Slovenia has been extremely classy for the last ten years. But it went this way. Governments have reduced direct and socially fairer taxes, such as the corporate income tax, abolished income classes, fired the richer and, on the other hand, sharpened and increased indirect taxes such as excise duties and value added taxes, which are paid most by end-users who are most affected by those who have the least, say pensioners with 500 euros of pension. Therefore, in the United Left we do not support the fact that the VAT crisis rates are now being translated into a permanent measure, it is said that the 22% rate is now being concrete. On the contrary. From this government, given that the crisis is over, given that you have promised a new policy, you would expect to do just the opposite, that we will stop the policies that have taken us into the lost decade for the past ten years and start a different policy that will be more socially fair and more economically stimulating. I am talking here, of course, about possible alternatives, which we have also proposed in the United Left. In particular, this is a higher rate of corporate income tax, higher rates of capital income tax for natural persons, higher taxes on property and on extra high wages in general. This would be a concrete alternative. Without any apparatus, we have shown how the budget could be covered by very simple and painless measures of an additional €140 million with social tax rights. But obviously it is easier for the government and the coalition to extend social injustices and, of course, we cannot support this in the United Left. In general, we are disappointed by the direction of the government, which, as we will see later in the budget, is obviously trending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. Then we can vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 27. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance in accordance with the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the sale programme of state-owned assets for 2016 and 2017. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 28. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2016. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. I am informing you that I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendment adopted on the working body would have led to a motion for a decision being inconsistent. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, 59 of whom were voted against, and no one opposed them. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda – this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2017. No amendments have been tabled to the proposed decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, 58 of whom were voted against and no one opposed. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 58 of whom voted against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present, 59 of whom were voted against, and no one opposed them. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for the 2016 Anti-Corruption Commission. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for the 2017 Anti-Corruption Commission. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Complementary Draft amending of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary budget changes. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, members of the government! On Monday and Tuesday we discussed the budget for 2016 and 2017. Despite the opposition's strong wish to have a high-quality debate with the government's representatives, apart from the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance, there was not one minister present, I think there was only one state secretary. So, Monday and Tuesday, when we had to make arguments about all parts of the budget and amendments, there was no government representative from the ministerial team in this Chamber. Today, when it is our turn to decide on individual parts of the budget, where the Government cannot even speak. We have six ministers and a whole bunch of secretaries of state. I ask you, Mr President, how you coordinated with the Government, how you planned this meeting of the National Assembly, where we discussed the budget for two years the basic act of the Government and how you agreed to participate in these two agenda items. For by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, ministers shall participate in the agenda items, if they are not available, the secretaries of the State. But she was one State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance and no one else. However, we have considered the general parts of the budgets for all the departments and amendments relating, if I am not mistaken, to about half the resources of this government. I'd like to explain why you're being so ignorant. At the time when we needed ministers for the debate, to communicate to confront the arguments, there were no calls, and now that we don't need anyone to vote, we have almost, I don't know, three-quarters of the representatives of government departments, if not more, of these six ministers. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u166	I can only find that the meeting has so far been held in a commercially appropriate manner and that the presentation of the Government has been commercially appropriate. And that's all there is to finding out, as now as the entire course of this session. I hope it's not the same. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! You will recall, Mr President, that, in the context of the correct procedural proposal yesterday, I have proposed or asked the Government to present a review of the dynamics of structural deficits, including structural efforts, before deciding Members and Members. Why? Because we have a problem. We still don't have a fiscal world right now. We have a fiscal rule law, but we do not have, as I would say, masters, that is, a fiscal world that would be a tool, this is a fiscal rule law, used and passed on to Members and Members. That is why today there is so much greater responsibility for us when we decide on the budget documents. I asked the Government to draw us a histogram, say, in such a form, perhaps in the form of a table, i.e. a dynamic of structural deficit reduction with structural effort, following, for the first time, transitional provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act, secondly, the Stability Programme. We know this thing. And, of course, in the light of Article 5 of Regulation No 1175/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011, which states, inter alia: "For Member States whose debt level exceeds 60% of GDP", Slovenia is "or for Member States with a strong risk of overall debt sustainability, the Council and the Commission shall examine whether the annual improvement in the cyclically adjusted budget balance with single and other temporary measures eliminated is higher than 0.5% of GDP." We know it has to be at least 66%. That's why I asked this display that, when we make a responsible decision, we have this dynamic ahead of us. Now I see, at least I don't have this on the table, that it's not really about the opposition's minimum hearing or minimum attention, so I hope that you might, Mr President, suggest a few minutes of pause to get this material though. I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u168	I don't have such procedural options to do anything like that. The request was well addressed, but it is, of course, up to those who are asked to do anything about it. However, these documents are not necessarily necessary in order to address these issues at this point in this meeting of the National Assembly. Another motion for procedure? All right.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I didn't get an answer to how you planned the meeting of the National Assembly. You know that when the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia are reviewed for two years, it is likely that the work programme is adapted so that the Minister of Finance and other ministers or government representatives can participate in the work of the National Assembly in accordance with the rules of procedure. I asked how, on Monday and Tuesday, when we discussed the budget both times by 10 a.m. and early in the morning, there were no ministers at the meeting of the National Assembly. Today, when we carry out the tasks of the Rules of Procedure from 81st to 90th or 92nd, that is to say when we vote, today there are six ministers, including the Minister of Finance. Yesterday and the day before, when we asked and asked the presidents to do everything they could to get the ministers to the National Assembly and defend the prepared budget, there was no one. You said the ministers were free to make their own decisions. Now I'm asking what they're doing here now that they can't even talk, they can't answer anybody, but they're just sitting there, just like you've got this scene here right now. They don't do anything else because they can't. Yesterday, when we asked, and the day before yesterday, when we asked them to come and communicate with us about these statements, provisions, measures, explanations of government amendments and so on, there was absolutely no minister here. Not the Minister of Finance, not for work, not for public administration, not for education, not for defence, not for health and not for other ministers. The six are here today and are monitoring the vote. They'll sit here quietly for five hours or more. That is why I ask you, Mr President of the National Assembly, how did you manage to coordinate this session so that on Monday and Tuesday everyone was detained, and today they have nothing to do and almost everyone is here. I'm really asking for a serious explanation. Because the session is going properly, and I am not even problematic, but I have asked a very specific question and I would also like a concrete answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u170	I'd like a business basis for your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u171	Look, Mr President, I have addressed the business procedural question to the President of the National Assembly, and I personally asked you how you planned to hold this meeting of the National Assembly, how you coordinated this with the government, that on Monday and Tuesday, when we discussed the budget and the amendments to the budgets, you failed to provide any minister. And today, when ministers can't do anything, you can only sit here, you've managed to secure six ministers, and the rest have been completed by state secretaries. You'll probably be able to answer this simple question, because it's nothing special, it's simple. It's just interesting, it's a message for the citizens. So I would really like a serious answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u172	It is also a communication for citizens to ask procedural questions without a basis. The government has always been the right way here, you've figured it out. The planning was therefore in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and is being carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. During the meeting, of course, the chairman shall decide on how the Rules of Procedure are applied. And so far, there has been no comment at this point. However, those planning and similar matters were entirely in line with what are common procedures for relations between the National Assembly and the Government. I don't make my own decisions about how and what an individual minister does. Now I ask that we move to a decision on the general part of the draft budget. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Council of Ministers! In the SDS Group, we will not support the 2016 budget for the reasons that are evident in this budget. First, this budget did not give us a strategy, we did not get a vision of this government, and we did not get any economic policies that would give people a better life. In most cases it is an analogy of previous budgets, it is a matter of repeating things at slightly higher incomes, but there is no content to ensure greater quality of services enjoyed by citizens or offered to citizens. There is also no significant progress in the area of debt reduction. This budget is also not adapted to the current situation. Here I am thinking mainly of the current security situation in Slovenia or the security situation in Europe. Things are likely to change so quickly that this budget needs to be corrected very quickly. However, this budget does not provide security for people. But security is now becoming a good thing, and a little more money needs to be allocated in these times, a little more money. We believe that there is no doubt that the Government should also, with some consensus, ensure that the level of security in this country is greater. Fear has actually begun to prevail today and at events in Europe. Fear will never win, but it can be more and more, it can last longer, it can be stronger if there is not enough courage on the other side. And with this budget, the government of Mira Cerar shows that it is not brave enough to simply resist to increase the security of citizens and citizens. This is also why we will not support this budget in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u174	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In opening, I should like to say that the New Slovenia Group will not support these budgetary documents. I keep saying that we will support some of the opposition amendments, because we do not actually have coalition amendments. I would also like to thank the Minister for showing me the numbers I already know from this spring of the Stability Programme, where we can see how the structural deficit will be reduced. However, I regret that two thirds of my question remains unanswered. And that's what I'm worried about. See, colleagues and colleagues, 2016 and 2017, according to our assessment, two key years for this coalition are expected to be the next elections at the end of the four-year term, this is said in mid-2018. We expected, indeed, that from these budget documents, which are always crucial, this will result in some reforms not only in some cosmetic amendments to the laws, but in the real tectonic shifts that our society needs. When, in what way will we create, create, not to me politicians, God forbid, that we, but the Slovenian economy will ever create the new 60,000 jobs that we bloodyly need, and in what way. Where are the measures? There are no measures to thank them for having economic growth. Only Slovenian economic organisations and natural persons, espies, especially a small economy, which is the backbone not only of the Slovenian economy, but also of the European economy, are responsible for economic growth. But this economy, if we listen to it, and we listen to it, New Slovenia really listens to it, notes and tells us that it always gets new and new burdens. When will any measures to burden the Slovenian economy in tax terms come into this National Assembly in an administrative sense? When will the measures come that will more open Slovenia's economy or Slovenia, since it is almost still hermetically closed for foreign investment. Let's ask ourselves why a foreign investor should come to Slovenia with a basket of money and build a factory here. Why? Because Slovenia is beautiful? Other countries are beautiful, too. Because we're hospitable? Other nations are also hospitable. Why would he come to us? We have to have answers to these questions. And when we have the answers, when the answers are right, we will work together. And we in New Slovenia are preparing measures to make it better for citizens and citizens in material and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u176	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by the United Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Similar indecisiveness as with VAT has been demonstrated by this government at a much broader level in the budget. This budget, if we just look at it in the grave, we'll see which way it's going. There's no determination on the income side. On the expenditure side of the incision. On the income side, no determination to intervene in the interests of the rich, capital, so that, in those matters where we are substantially below the European average, for example, European countries can, on average, collect 20% of capital taxes into their budgets, Slovenia only collects 10%. This government has not shown any effort, no indication that it has any such interest in at least getting close to the European average. Nor do you want to raise the corporate income tax to 20%, as we suggested, but only with this measure would you get EUR 84 billion into the budget and still be 5% below Austria's level and 7.5% below Italy's level. On the other hand, we have cuts that will be socially painful, which will be devastating for our society's subsystems, such as health care, higher education, and the investment activity is cut. And these things will have consequences. Look, at this point, 200,000 patients and patients are waiting for an intervention or investigation in our health organizations. The budgets we have ahead of us are cut into health care for an additional EUR 27 million. At this point, we have 65,000 poor more than in 2007, yet it interferes with social expenditure and does not even consider trying to raise the minimum cost of living to the level that was calculated in 2009. We have recovered in the last two years, which is in no way safe. We know from past experience that these recoverys are fragile even in the early years after the crisis, but we will still cut investment by more than 300 million euros. This budget is unfair, it is indecisive, it is unsocial and potentially dangerous, because it can get us into a third recession, so we will vote against it in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u178	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, support this general part of the 2016 budget in our parliamentary group. Why? Because in the given circumstances where we are still looking for this balance in fiscal stability in the country, we are looking for the prescribed amount of government debt that is expected from us at European Union level, the Government was able to prepare clear programming priorities for 2016. In any event, it should be pointed out that, in an integral sense, virtually none of the ministries loses funding under the circumstances. That we have been able to learn from the committees themselves and through this debate that, according to individual ministries, there are very clear substantive priorities set by individual ministries and that we can also see a clear programme priority in the budgetary sense for 2016. This is a security priority, a priority for ensuring further development, especially given in one sector of infrastructure, in the area of health and education. However, it is a fact that, in a programmatic sense, this budget cannot be ideal in terms of the circumstances and the constraints we face in general in terms of public finances and in terms of public financial stability, it cannot be combated in this sense. However, we are certainly working on the possibility that this trend will in the future turn higher than is now possible. We are aware that we must all, as budgetary users, not only individual ministries, but also all others, including the National Assembly, face the fact that we will also have to rethink internal efficiency and coordination and financial spending in the given circumstances and in the given sums to us. It should also be borne in mind that drawing on European funds is also one that leaves room for manoeuvre and is not yet fully addressed in this budget proposal. Let me get this straight. This proposal for a general part of the budget is good under certain circumstances and is development-oriented in certain circumstances. And it's not a matter of courage, but it's a question of the wisdom of the government, how it's put together in these circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u180	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear comrades! We will, of course, support this budget in the Desus Group. We will support him knowing that he is not ideal, just as no budget has ever been and will certainly not be ideal in the future. We assess, however, that this budget is optimal in terms of limited financial resources and unlimited desires. We're sure he's optimal in space and time. We believe that, despite the fact that investments have been slightly reduced in comparison with the last two years, it is actually inappropriate to do so in the integrated budget of funds more than in previous years. We are also pleased to see that they are not at risk, looking at the budget, the most socially vulnerable target groups. We are pleased that after a long period of time, pensions will be coordinated again, and we are pleased to be able to pay the pensioner in a smooth and even more dynamic manner. Also, that some rights on behalf of socially disadvantaged persons are increased and that in some ways the infamous Zujf is softened. I am convinced that the adoption of this budget is a great and strong commitment and the responsibility of individual ministers and ministers to implement their programmes in a committed and rational manner, not least in the coalition agreement. Finally, we are convinced that with the prudent and effective implementation of budgetary activities, programme activities can be achieved with three main objectives. First, social justice, secondly, economic success, and thirdly, the polycentric Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u182	We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Then you'll check in. I'm just watching if the same guys were holding their hands up like they volunteered. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Ange Logar, prepare the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you, President! At the start of the presentation of this budget, the government has announced its priorities, namely that it has narrowed them down to three areas: health, education and development. Let's see. It has therefore prepared a budget for us and has accounted for 25% less in the area of health this year. In the area of education, second priorities, it has allocated 30 million less to higher education and a few 100 million less to investment in development. She predicted a tax hike, and she was still looking forward to that courage. As we see in the budget, it has de facto stopped privatisation. Even more. By forecasting more funds for restructuring or purchases of new shares in companies, it has announced even more state ownership. This budget, which we have before us, is an antithesis on the promise of candidates to present budgets. He is also the antithesis of Dusan Marble before the Committee on Finance on his inauguration or hearing at the beginning. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also committed to my constituency, I cannot support the antibodies, so I will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u184	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Andrej Shircelj, prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I will also vote against this budget for the following reasons. This budget is not even harmonised with itself. He's not in line with the congregations. Indeed, in a financial sense, municipalities form part of this budget and, therefore, this budget is not even formally harmonised. In fact, there is no telling how much expenditure there will be for the congregations, since in fact the government does not want to go to the congregations. Second. In fact, there are a lot of questions about European funds. Another financial perspective in Slovenia appears to be not working. After all, we also have a lot of resources that are unsettled for which we do not have projects and, last but not least, we do not have the documents and documentation of the rules that we would send to the European Commission to make this other financial perspective work. In other words, this means that these funds are unattainable for us today and the question is how they will be in the future. In fact, this budget also announces new financial revenues and the deterioration of business conditions for economists. These new conditions are already on the Ministry of Finance’s website, which predicts new taxation. These are also the reasons, in addition to those I have already mentioned, which relate mainly to security, and it is likely that more resources will have to be provided for security for the so-called migration crisis. With regard to the dilemma between wisdom and courage, however, I believe that in the given circumstances, circumstances need to be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u186	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Marko Pogačnik, get Mr. Jean Mahnič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u187	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will not support the 2016 draft supplementary budget alone. But I won't support him for more than one reason. The fact is that the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and SD are working to consolidate public finances on purely wrong issues. You are working on the consolidation of public finances on re-indebtedness and on the tax burdens and burdens of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This budget actually shows how the government of Mira Cerar will work in 2016, which we can expect with additional debt, additional burdens. It's the wrong excise policy. The fact is that the macroeconomic indicators for 2016 are significantly better than they were in the preparation of the 2014 and 2015 budget, in particular this government should have more courage to relieve the economy, rather than burden it with additional burdens. This reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and, in both the short and long term, this does not have a positive perspective. Above all, it must also be stressed that it is sad that the government no longer takes time to talk to the economists, to take so much for interviews with the unions, and actually always kneels before them. Interestingly, it is said in the towers that the Minister of Finance did not know about these talks with the unions and that the Minister of Finance does not actually agree with these issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u188	Mr Jan Mahnič has an explanation for the vote in his own name, to be prepared by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you, President. I will not support this budget. I will vote against this because after this vote I also want to look in the eyes of all Slovenian citizens and citizens who drive daily on Slovenian state roads, who are in such poor condition that they are virtually dangerous to drive and will not improve after this budget. I will vote against this because I want to see the Slovenian police in my eyes. I will vote against this because I want to look in my eyes at Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. I will vote against this because I want to look in my eyes after this vote to Slovenian intelligence and to all those who are concerned about our security. And last but not least, I will vote against it because I want to maintain the integrity of our Prime Minister, Mir Cerar, because I do not want our prime minister in the international community in the circle of our friendly countries in the context of NATO's alliance to become unrestrained, to fall out as one of the major liars among the prime ministers, who is three months behind Stoltenberg, Secretary General Nat, to promise that the budget for defence will not fall next year, but will remain at the same level. This year it was 0.97% of GDP and next year it goes to 0.94% of GDP. That is to say, after three months, the Prime Minister swallowed his word. And lastly, I will vote against it also because I see that even the coalition does not believe in this budget, which proves that more than half of them are not even in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u190	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Duck, get Mr. Franz Breznik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am listening to this nondebate on the budget this week, and I regret to say that the Slovenian budget has the same identical problems as the Slovenian film: bad scripting. The script's bad. And this budget clearly shows this. When I heard this debate this week, and especially today, I had a thought, but I know that Mr President would not even put it to the vote. I would like to suggest that we interrupt the meeting in three hours, move to Cankarjev dom and look at the transparent exhibition by Tomaž Lavrič, which has been setting up a mirror, a face for Slovenian politicians since 1988, and then maybe give someone something in mind and continue the discussion on the budget. You think that's funny, I don't think that's funny. This budget is the story of the poor writer we have been looking at in this country since the beginning of this millennium. In short, big promises turned out to be empty. If I look at both budgets with the predicted mini tax reform, I get the feeling that someone somewhere called Lohn Arbeit muss sein. This budget is not even conducive to the economy, it does not take into account the situation of an ever-increasing part of the hegemon, the people under our constitution. It's kind of packed, it's a weak cloth, it's an impenetrable steel pot. Mr. Prikl of Maribor said that one of these three matters is polycentricity. Taking money already in the development of backward regions, on my dear Kolpi building razors, and it will now be the development of tourism. What can I say? I think it's best if I just shut up, 'cause nobody listens anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u192	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Slovenia received a dictatorship of the public sector and pensioners in last year 2014 following a reference to this Parliament. And this dictatorship is reflected in one country's ambition and ambition is also reflected in the figures represented by the budget. I cannot support the budget because this budget is as special as all budgets so far. In this budget we not only destroy the vital part of the economy that creates the added value that works, which still holds Slovenia above water, but through this budget we destroy the national security of the Republic of Slovenia in the short term. We're also destroying local self-government. Those who have so far made the most optimal use of European funds are taking the extra money they would need to co-finance European projects. On the one hand, we are promoting the eviction of young people from this country, which is unsuspecting. We are signaling that there is also a whole range of representations, ambassadors, of the largest multinational companies leaving this area. The dictatorship of the public sector destroys everything that is not related to monopolies, which is not related to bad services, for the most part. So it maintains an RTV contribution, maintains a single price of petrol, maintains a school system that gives us staff, which hardly contributes to economic growth and so on. So it maintains the status quo and, as Albert Einstein once said: it's crazy to expect that in the same attempts we get a different goal, so that we get a different result. And since this is a crazy solution, because it is destructive, especially from a security point of view, in this reference, I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u194	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of her own voice to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u195	Your Honor! Of course, I object and I will vote against this budget. Why? This budget is, in fact, one bunch of confused numbers without tail and head. The government with him proves that it does not really know what it wants and where it is taking this country. It is a matter of losing two important years with him and practically not going anywhere in the country. A completely non-investment-oriented budget at a time when the country should direct the most energy and resources to this segment. The finance minister doesn't even know where he'll get the money. When an agreement was signed with trade unions in the public sector, it was heard from his mouth that this money would have to be provided elsewhere in the public sector. I wonder if he might take it back to the police and the Slovenian soldiers. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance promised that this would be a budget aimed at security policy. What a big lie! In 2017, we even reduce the funds for police officers and do not increase. However, those we have given them are the necessary resources that we should receive in this country in any case, regardless of whether we are living at greater risk today and our common security is at risk. In short, this budget is not to be supported and all those who press the button in support of this budget are sorry, but I think you do not really know what you are doing. The fact is that this country needs much more security efforts and that citizens in this country will finally live again in a normal society.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u196	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u197	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The budget is not developed for me and I will not support this budget because the budget cuts most of the investment funds very sharply. More than 600 million investments are made in two main investment areas: the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, which covers investments on roads, railways as well as maritime and aviation transport, and the Ministry of Environment and Space, where I think about investments in environmental projects and water management projects. This means that we have taken people's jobs for 600 million compared to this year's. And we know what the investment year was like in 2015. Very poor. It is said that if we subtract 600 million more jobs from the poor times, then you can imagine what the situation of the economy and population of the Republic of Slovenia will be in 2016. I also do not see the financial perspective 2014-2020 in the budget. And we're already in 2016. There are no projects and there is no realisation of these projects. There are no financial effects in 2016. That is to say, here to talk about development, is, I would say, an illusion and, of course, this development of the economy in the following year absolutely will not be felt.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u198	Any other explanation for the voice? Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will not support this budget for a number of reasons. Firstly, because I am convinced that this budget is far from socially oriented, economically positive, the budget of the bureaucratic apparatus is a budget that has nothing to do with the welfare of the Slovenian people. So it's a budget that doesn't hold. Slovenians and Slovenians need a budget that will strongly support the development of the economy, thereby creating new jobs and, above all, reducing poverty and social exclusion. For these reasons, I will not support the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u200	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. Then we are moving on to a decision on the general part of the 2016 supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 27. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are in the process of deciding on a specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We move to budget user 1211 – National Assembly.We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Activities of the National Assembly. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you, President. This is an amendment that discusses the provision of professional support to the parliamentary investigative commission to identify the causes and perpetrators of abuses in the banking system. We supported this parliamentary inquiry here in the National Assembly by 68 votes against. Those who voted in favour of the parliamentary commission of inquiry probably already knew that such an investigator needed professional support. That is why we are now ahead of the second stage of this same decision. Given that the Minister of Finance has apparently forgotten to include this in the budget, we have drafted an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to enable the National Assembly to provide adequate resources to provide this professional support. It is a matter of providing Members with consistent knowledge, as suggested by the Bank of Slovenia, with a smooth research work by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, and thereby justifying the mandate given to this commission of inquiry and given to this national assembly by the electorate. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission needs this expertise. We are united on the parliamentary investigative committee itself. We have unanimously adopted the position to appeal to the leaders of the parliamentary groups to support this amendment. I therefore expect today the support of all members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry and all those who actually count on it and want the parliamentary commission of inquiry to carry out its work professionally after the mandate given to it in this national assembly and to finally reach the bottom of the matter in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u202	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not just me, as a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, who is investigating and looking for those responsible, who have drilled a bank hole into our society and actually in Slovenian society have drilled one big wound, not only is it a financial problem, it is a moral problem, it is a state of spirit in this country, which has deteriorated dramatically since this large bank hole was found. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. We were on the committee and expressed our conviction that the Government would ensure the normal functioning of this parliamentary commission, which is the eminent functioning of the National Assembly after the constitution, by law, of these 150 000 euros. Therefore, we do not agree that money for the operation of this commission is taken from other activities of the National Assembly. We don't agree to that. When we walk on the ground or anywhere, in fact, colleagues and colleagues, hands on hearts, people ask us to do something and expect us to do something. Take the ones who took us." Yeah, how can we do that if we're actually without the tools we'd need here bloodyly. I express my expectation that this amendment will receive support. Since we are in the first amendment for 2016, I repeat, it would be very good to somehow ease our relationship between the coalition and the opposition, to bring them closer together, to make a decision and to accept at least some amendment of the opposition. Believe me, this is a good practice from the 2004-2008 mandate, which we have already discussed with our colleague Tank. You won't be sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u204	We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Activities of the National Assembly. No, no, no. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you, President. I wouldn't have answered, but given what's been going on in the last few days, I still have to. Initially, this amendment was subject to some general support for this amendment. Among other things, the leader of a coalition group said that if we fail to secure funds within the redeployments of the National Assembly, that parliamentary group will vote in favour of this amendment. I assure you that the coalition has not assured me that funds will be available within the budget of the National Assembly for this commission of inquiry, so I believe that this parliamentary group, which appeals for the word to be valid, will also come to support this amendment. Again, I appeal to others to support this parliamentary investigative assistance for the parliamentary investigative commission. We received over 40,000 documents in the National Assembly. I wouldn't dare to think that this amendment is not going to be supported just so we don't get to the bottom of these 40,000 documents. Therefore, I will personally vote in favour of this amendment to provide the parliamentary investigative committee with professional support so that it can carry out its task in a smooth manner, in accordance with the mandate and, as the Constitution provides in some way, in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u206	We are now really voting on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Activities of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. To make things clear. In view of some of the debates in the National Assembly, what rejection of this amendment means, I must clarify that the services of the National Assembly will not redistribute the requests of the Commissions of Inquiry from their budget lines outside the current financial parameters. However, this can be done by the parliamentary groups from their own resources in agreement. We are moving to budget user 1611, Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Financial Equalisation for the municipalities. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I have to react, President of the National Assembly. This performance of yours could start before the vote, because then a clear parliamentary group would vote in full for the amendment. I have understood the agreement and conversation differently than you are now interpreting, so I find it very inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u208	We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group to the Sub-programme Financial Equalization for the municipalities. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. This is a financial settlement for the municipalities. This item is proposed to be raised by 25 million. Today we talked practically most of the day about the financial sub-nutrition of Slovenian local self-government, Slovenian municipalities. It is interesting even that, for 2017, even the Government proposes to delete this item of financial compensation. We are confident that this item should be raised by 25 million, so we have tabled this amendment and will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u210	We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group to the Sub-programme Financial Equalization for the municipalities. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 52. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1714 – Police. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Public Order sub-programme and the general security of people and property. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support the amendment and so will the Slovenian Democratic Party in this national assembly. But it's important that the coalition does the same. In a way, this is your correctional exam, given yesterday's exercise by the President of the National Assembly, when he rejected our amendment in an area where we could help the police more, the fact is we didn't do it. Today we have this opportunity, and we also apologize for the inappropriate words of the President of the Government, who today's statement of police officers is considered inappropriate and even referred to them as almost the biggest problem in this country, a non-digestion. This is not a disgraceful act that cops are doing today. A shameful act is what you will do if you do not support this amendment. The police need money for their own safety as well as for our own safety. It's about all of us. For our citizens and those who cross our borders. I hope at least you'll hear if you don't make up your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u212	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Public Order sub-programme and the general security of people and property. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 51. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Development Cooperation and International Assistance. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Commitments to the European Union are something that Slovenian governments generally like to respect in particular when it comes to privatisation, reduction of labour rights and so on. One such commitment made by Slovenia is also a promise to increase international development aid to 0.33% of gross national income by 2015. Since 2010, this rate has been 0.13% and this budget has been extended to this and also to the following year and to 2017. Development assistance is probably one of the key elements that the more developed countries have to address today’s 60 million refugees and displaced persons. Of course, this R & D mechanism cannot solve the crisis in Syria, only the United States, NATO and the European Union can do so by giving up their neo-colonial interests in the Middle East. At least Slovenia can contribute symbolically. Let's say it's a peace policy position, but there's not much hope for that. But in a very concrete way, Slovenia can do something about it, and this is development aid. We have Slovenian humanitarian workers all over the world, and we can do more than just nod around the Brussels Towers. In short, in some ways it is a civil duty that we have as one of the 15 % most developed countries in this world to help countries, which we are helping to destabilize or impede their development in one way or another. In the United Left, we propose that the funds for ODA be increased by a million euros. This would bring about that increase in this promised percentage and, in fact, take a step to try to also contribute in this way to the less developed or those countries that are actually on the periphery because of all the interests of the Western world, in some way at least weaken. Of course, this is not the only possible measure. Thank you. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u214	We vote on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Development Cooperation and International Assistance. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for whom 6 votes against 50. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1912 – the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the decision on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Preparedness of the System for Protection, Rescue and Assistance. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present, with 25 votes against 51. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. First, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under point 1. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under point 2. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As has been said several times in this National Assembly, or I would like to explain the voice and amendment of the SDS Group. We propose that €5 million be allocated in 2016 for the integrated development of the Haloz area. Let me remind you, on the Joint Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Economy in April, we supported all the parliamentary parties that the Haloz area needs special treatment. We were all aware of the situation in this area that agricultural land is growing, that there is a significant reduction in the number of people in the Haloz area, that it is a population, and we agreed that there is an exceptional potential to be helped in this area. The Government set up a working group, extended the mandate until the end of 2015 to prepare measures for the integrated development of the Haloz area. It is also right that in the 2016 budget, we should also allocate some resources for this area because it will simply not be possible to implement individual measures without additional means. That is why we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because we want special funds to be allocated to this area and we propose that this be EUR 5 million. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under point 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 51. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. First, we decide on the first amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 1. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 52. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 52. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 3. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while. We will support this amendment. Under this amendment, we also want to provide funds for the construction of the Murska Sobota East. Here the country has long made a commitment, a promise to the city municipality of Murska Sobota for the construction of this siege. For the following year, the Minister responsible for State Roads promised the Mayor of the Municipality of Murska Sobota 600 000 euros. Now we see that there are three times less funds planned here, and that's why we wanted to raise this item. In view of the fact that the larger volume of funds for this suburb of Murska Sobota is planned only after 2019 and the funding is expected to be completed by 2023, it is unlikely that the bypass will be built within this period. That is why we support this amendment, and we expected the Vice-President of the Government to make his word here, although he is the Vice-President of all Slovenia, not only for Pomurje, but unfortunately our expectations have been unheard of.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u217	We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 3. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 51. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 4. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll explain the fourth, fifth and sixth amendments. It is three carriageways located on the same main road, namely G2-106, which runs from Škofljica to the border crossing of Petrina. There are three larger settlements: Kočevje, Ribnica and Velika Lašče, around which traffic is not regulated and through them represents a great danger mainly for young people, children and others. The road is also relatively heavily burdened by some vehicles, especially heavy freight traffic, is a transit road, it is a warehouse of oil derivatives in Ortnek, there is huge transport of forest ranges. The Government has written on all three amendments in this opinion to the amendments that the amendments are technically feasible, which means that this can be applied. At the same time, however, it noted that it rejected all three amendments because it was interfering with the planned obligations of the Ministry of Public Administration. The position of the Ministry of Public Administration, from which we take it, will increase by 2.7 times this year or next year, from 10 million to 27 million. And three times for 50,000 for three bypasses, which would significantly reduce accessibility and time access between Kočev and Ljubljana, probably cannot be so important or rejected by such reasoning. After all, the Government has the power to virtually redistribute this item to EUR 6 million. It has thus been authorised under the law on the implementation of the budget. And to put it mildly, the explanation that follows is strange and inconsistent with all the efforts that the Government is talking about. If this item of the Ministry of Public Administration, which is increased from 10 million to 27 million, is so accurately planned, then the Government does not need any powers and other budgetary users to redistribute the funds of individual budget items. To all those who will decide on the next three amendments, I recommend that you support them and at least allow for the initiation of the procedures for placing the shells in space, these initial things, and also allow this demographically endangered and otherwise threatened area to begin under other criteria, so that conditions for normal development can be established at least somehow.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u219	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. On behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? In my own name. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. The amendment under number 4 and then the next one under number 5 will be supported. This is a measure envisaged in the third A development axis and the Government has already adopted a decision in 2011 to give priority to the third A development axis and the problem area of Pokoplje. The Court of Auditors has found that the realisation of infrastructure is essential to access from planned dynamics and in fact the Ministry of Infrastructure has also issued a negative opinion on the activity of the infrastructure. In my opinion, the decision whether to invest 50,000 euros in the production of documentation for placement in the area of Velika Lašče-Ribnic-Kočevje, compared with the fact that it will wait somewhat for 50 000 public administrations or conditions for the work of state authorities, is incomparable. So the impact by adopting this amendment is certainly significantly greater than the provision of conditions for parts of the state authorities, for which I find that they already have the right conditions for their work today. This area is certainly also lagging behind in the Court of Auditors' opinion precisely because the Ministry of Infrastructure did not implement the decisions adopted by the Government in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u221	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't think these two explanations really add anything. Except that the support of this amendment does not in any way constitute derogations from the path of public financial consolidation, as stated in the introduction to the budget debates by the Minister of Finance, when he said that you should vote against all budgets solely for this reason. These three amendments, which are essentially the beginning of work on these projects to put into space, are essential if this area is to be in fact alive. And in no way will these amendments intervene in any way from drawing public financial consolidation, because they are balanced and because the Ministry of Public Administration probably does not need EUR 27 million on this item if it now has 10. And next year, it won't take 23 million euros if it's 10 now. But you've obviously decided in the coalition that this budget is dedicated, it's radiated by God's grace, and it's untouchable. Otherwise, even such small transfers cannot be imagined or explained. I propose or will support this amendment myself, and I am counting on all those who will now decide that you will help this area to reach at least not a decent road, but at least to some decent sections, which now represent traffic jams, hinder traffic safety and cause a lot of other complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u223	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Although we have somehow agreed in the United Left that we will not, in principle, open these so-called localist amendments, after all, as a person dealing with infrastructure, we could write at least 500 amendments. I will exceptionally support this this time, and I hope that the entire comrade, as has already been said in both previous explanations. It is a region that is lagging behind, and it is a region from which it is actually the largest proportion of day-to-day labour migrants against Ljubljana, if you would probably look at it as a percentage. And after all, these things need to be settled. However, I hope that we will also have a short discussion about the so-called road, sometimes we have told the tolar, now the euro, because in fact these infrastructure issues will have to be seriously addressed. I'm going to support the amendments, after all, it's 150 000 euros, which the predecessors didn't say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u225	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 4. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 5. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 31 votes against 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 6. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 7. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u226	Chairman, thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we know very well what is the state of Slovenian state roads. We are very well aware that the Slovenian Directorate for Roads would need between 240 and 250 million annually to keep the quality of Slovenian roads at a level such as today. And we know that the current situation is not pink. But it's that minimum that we stay at this level of quality. Nevertheless, I would say that we have not gone so far as we need to make an amendment for about 60 million, but we have made a selection or set of projects that are of the greatest benefit to the Slovenian economy. This is true of those projects that are the largest bar in development, for example in tourism or in companies in certain areas of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus in the area of tourism we propose the completion of the beach in Solčava, then the glass for the transition to the Upper Savina Valley is the place of Luča, where it urgently needs the bypass, then the arrangement of the road to the ski resort in Goltje, that is to say at the Mozire-Zekovec section. Then, of course, the international links between Hotemaža and Britofa, which represent an essential and important link to Austrian work, are also important. Then it is also the beginning of the construction of the connecting bridge across the Drava stream between the Municipality of Starša and the municipality of Duplek. In the municipality of Ptuj, where an agreement was signed on a request for the construction of this bridge through Drava 18 municipalities, it is an extremely large territorial part where there is no connection between the two banks of Drava. These are the proposals that, at this point, would really, after careful selection, hinder the greatest development of such an economy and, of course, these are our priority proposals and we propose that you accept them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u227	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to No. [[…]] We have an explanation in our own name, Jelka Godec and Marijan Pojbič. Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Under this amendment is also the road, connecting road Dole-Ponikva-Dolga Gora-Loče. This is a state road that has been prioritized in reconstruction, because it is a road through which freight transport is carried out for the purpose of rebuilding rail tracks on the Celje–Maribor track. This road was severely destroyed in 2012 when the railway line of Grobelno-Poljčana or Dug Gora was reconstructed. During this year, heavy freight transport is also being carried out throughout the year for the purpose of reconstruction of the railway line. According to the assessment of AMC Slovenia, the road is rated with the lowest value of the point, i.e. the highest risk on this road for the safety of cars, drivers like all users of this road. In 2012, several funds were allocated to this road, which miraculously disappeared at the end of 2013. The entire project is worth 21 million. We are aware in this area that these are large funds, but we are also proposing that, given the talks with the minister who has seen this road, there have already been, I will say, several visits, including by the Directorate, to allocate the minimum resources, that is, 100,000 euros to finally start those first procedures, and that only complete reconstruction takes place over time. Some comfort us by maintaining the road, but in fact there is nothing left to maintain on this road. In certain places the road is threatened with closure, beaches, macadam, and all residents there warn that there will also be physical closure by the inhabitants of the road if something does not happen in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u229	Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Under this amendment, the section of regional road 3 is number 749 Vosek–Jurovski dol-Lenart at a length of 7,468 kilometres, amounting to EUR 4 million 128 thousand. The section is completely permanent, it needs to be repaired, the road body arranged, the drainage of the meteoric waters is made, a new defensive cap, banks and hills, road facilities, and road connections. This is a section of the road, which is also driven by my colleague Vesna Vervega, and I think she knows this road very well because she is also an MP from that environment where this exposed section is in extremely poor condition. At the very least, I expect the SMC Group to support this amendment, because I am sure that we are not working for political options in this country, but working for people. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and the rest of the opposition, I am almost certain that we will fully support this amendment. Of course, I am also aware that this is quite a financial contribution, but I feel that this amendment or this section still needs to be reformed because it is truly in very bad shape. Here I expect support from the SMC, if it does not, then at some point in time we will be able to say again that the words are one thing, and those people who live there and do something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u231	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u232	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd touch myself with one piece that's in this package. This is the road that my colleague Jelka, Dramalje-Ponikva-Loče, was talking about. A lot of activity has been done on this road, and a lot of promises have been made to our predecessors, but the road is actually in worse shape every day. Our people who live and use this road have understood us for many years. They understood us when we said there was no money and that we would move it from year to year. They were kind of comforted when they once saw some money in the budget, and he accidentally disappeared somewhere. They even agreed that this road would eventually be destroyed when the railway line was rebuilt, as already mentioned. They are always patient when there is a closed road, a highway from Ljubljana to Maribor, is transport and in fact this road is already impossible to use. That is why, of course, I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly to allow the most urgent to be ensured. The most urgent thing for this road is that at least one part of the road is restored and that we do not finally make promises to people, we do not drag them down. In fact, they are losing their nerve and it can happen, as has already been said, that one day this road will be closed to all traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u233	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 7. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 8. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is an important step towards linking the Korean work with the highway work in the Lower Savina Valley. I'm talking about the Polzel-Veneum section. We know that the existing Velenje-Arja road is one of the most burdened roads in Slovenia, because it is the main transport line, a narrow vein that feeds the Velenje economy and, of course, the whole Koroška part. The Polzel–Velenje section is a very important parallel section, which will make a very important contribution to maintaining contact with both Velenja and Koroška with the central part of Slovenia with the construction of the third development axis. However, it is particularly important that this link is built against Koroška before the third development axis begins to be built. I can't imagine how it would have been when the third development axis was being built if, insofar as this important section between Polzela and Velenje would not have been reconstructed in time, and even the works of construction transport at the construction of the third development axis and the entire transport needed by the economy in the Shaleska Valley and in Koroška would have been redirected to this leg. This is an extremely important link against Koroška and I appeal to all Members to give their support to this project as well. I am talking about the funds of 1.5 million for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u235	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 8. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 22 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – the Ministry of Environment and Space and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme on energy production and development of energy networks. Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you, President, for your word. With the support of this amendment, we would all make or correct a mistake that we had previously adopted in the concession law on the lower Sava. I will support this amendment because I agree with Desus, who says the government will seek to find the means to complete the construction on the lower Sava. I will support this amendment because I agree with the SD Members who say that investments in hydropower plants need support without delay. I will support this amendment because I agree with the SMC Members who said in their position that they are calling on the government to find the means to complete the hydropower plant on the lower Sava. I will support this amendment because I am against financial, economic and environmental damage being done with the non-support of this amendment. And I will support this amendment because I am a proponent of that and I agree with those who say that we urgently need a new energy concept in Slovenia that will be based on renewable sources. If we support this amendment, we will follow the objective also pursued by the Ministry of Infrastructure, when it says simply that the project to complete the construction of the Brežica and Mokrice hydropower plant is a third of the objective that we have to achieve or a third of the measures and commitments we have to implement by 2020. And I will support this amendment because I do not agree with this government's policy of operation, which, past the concessionaire, adopts legislation that delays the completion of the construction of hydropower plants and which, past the concessionaire, is taking funds for one of the largest investment projects currently in the country. I want to support this amendment because I want the investment in the Republic of Slovenia to continue in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u237	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u238	President, thank you for your word. If this amendment were as simple as it is now, I would have liked it, and I believe everyone would have confirmed it. But you forgot to say that this amendment is about taking away €60 million from the financial administration, says Fursu, this is half their budget, which means that we should actually change the law that requires us to have FURS and financial administration. In this amendment, you have forgotten to say that half of all funds are taken to the FURS and that the adoption of such an amendment would be illegal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u239	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the energy production and development sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 52. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Now, due to technical difficulties in voting, we have to go back to an amendment that is supposed to be voted on or announced. We return to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. We have to re-vote. We decide on the second amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 2. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 52. [[in favour of 21 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving back to the current budget user, which we have previously voted on through 2550 – the Ministry of Environment and Space and the sub-programme Water Management. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is about providing 200 000 euros for the management of the mining lake in Kočev. This lake is the largest water surface in southern Slovenia and is in fact the only location that enables the development of more massive multi-day tourism. This would be of great importance not only for Kočevje, which suffers from major development problems, with great unemployment, but also for all other neighbouring municipalities, which can offer many cultural, natural and other heritage. 200 000 euros is not a large amount to upgrade what exists on the shore of the mine lake in Kočev. It's about 10% of the regulated area, everything else is still out of order. I propose that this be taken away from the line of the Ministry of Public Administration, which has €69 million of the budget this year and €200 000 for a certain location in the municipality, which has long been at the top of unemployment, should not constitute a problem for the government, for the coalition, in fact. In addition to the bonds you have previously rejected, this is one additional stimulus to start in Kočev, where a huge number of industries have collapsed, where there is also great unemployment, at least one of the locations to build a more serious economic or tourist development. I hope that the amendment does not prejudice too much and does not depart from the planned fiscal consolidation or what the Ministry of Finance has foreseen, but it certainly means stimulating and encouraging an area that is borderline, is on the southern border and is also demographically threatened, and in the search for services, people from this area are forced into day-to-day migration or absences that last about three hours alone for transport. In short, it is necessary to help an environment that has had problems for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u241	We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management under number 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 49. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management under number 2. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am talking about the regulation of flood safety along the Savinja River, at the section of Ločica near Savinja to Letus. I can say I'm not talking about anti-flood security arrangements. I can say that I'm talking about maintaining this part of the Savinja River, because here, when the watercourse grows, we're not going to talk about the element, but we're going to be able to say suspension of maintenance at this section. That is to say, if I say so at home, the country in this section is an extremely bad master. On both banks, both left and right, this area is completely urbanized. That's what they say, walled up. And not to say at the time of the flood, but with a significant increase in the watershed, it could be damage to the enormity. As a result of the suspension of the owner's maintenance, several lawsuits may also come upon the owner here. And these charges will, of course, be excused. Because this isn't going to be an element, it's going to be a suspension of maintenance. I am talking about the funds of EUR 2 million 500 000 in 2016. All the necessary documentation shall be made, both spatially and both technical documentation, which means that all the conditions for the start of the investment are ensured. Even the bridge in Paris is gone because the water took it long ago. In short, this section is completely sailed. Breeds and water embankments are damaged up to 80% of the Circus. Then you can imagine how little there is of that fixed stable meat on the banks themselves that still protect these settlements on both sides. This calls for immediate and urgent regulation and the restoration of this anti-floating security for these populated areas. I ask that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u243	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management under number 2. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 21 for them and 51 for them. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2551 – Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Environmental monitoring and hydrological activity. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. It's a story that we've already talked about on the parent's working body this year about water monitoring. Today, some have talked a great deal about security, courage, and so forth. After all, if you believe in evolution, we come from water, we are mostly made up of water, even if you don't believe in evolution, and without water there is no life. Water at wood biomass is actually the greatest wealth we have. Not with one, not with the other, we obviously don't know how to manage. The best wood comes to buy with Madeira, by the way. As for water, we will no longer carry out monitoring. People who are professionally involved in this have told us nicely if they drop out half a year of monitoring, that is, in the timeline of two years of data loss. In fact, I am not one of those who likes to scare people, but we today do not know what the water situation is like in Slovenia. We therefore propose this amendment for both financial years. We are moving, I will not say that we are taking from the sub-programme the political system of communication with the domestic and foreign public, because we think monitoring water and water is a much more important budget item. Since we all drink water with other derivatives, because water is also a component of other fluids, I hope that you will all support this amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u245	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Environmental monitoring and hydrological activity. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 21 for them and 52 for them. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Training and Education. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We allocate additional poor €3 million to the training and education sub-programme in the United Left. The reason we're doing this is simple. We are in favour of a shift in employment policy. Instead of subsidising employees, it is necessary to shift to investing in job seekers themselves, referring to workers and workers. Of course, we are still talking here within the framework of an active employment policy. What the socialists would like to see is a transition from these policies to full employment policies. We warn that no formal education programmes have been implemented for years. Instead, there is increasing reliance on some psychological and motivational workshops that are no good to job seekers and are pumping them with neoliberalism, individualism and how they must be subject to capital dictatorships. We also warn that education needs will increase as the proportion of the long-term unemployed rises and the proportion of young people rises. It is young people who acquire the most of such programs and can take the most of them for their future lives. Therefore, we also expect the competent ministry, together with the competent services, to draw up new relevant programmes that respond to such policies, which we also propose with this amendment. The implementation of these policies must be independent of the acquisition of European funds. We can learn much from past experiences in this area. The case of social workers is one of those that shows how the European Fund's funds are uncertain, how insufficient they are and therefore cannot act as a compensation for resources in the integrated budget. These sub-programmes need to be allocated resources from an integrated budget because they are too important for job seekers, especially for young people in Slovenian society, in order to rely on unstable European resources, which, you know, wind brings them, wind takes them away, and young people and other job seekers remain empty. For this purpose, we propose a transfer within the Ministry of Labour, under the heading "Modifying the system in the field of entrepreneurship and competitiveness". When we talk about the Ministry of Competitiveness's work, it usually means lowering labour and social rights, and entrepreneurship means nothing more than subsidising employees and creating fine-tuning jobs. The opening of such items, which stimulate such an understanding of competitiveness and entrepreneurship, is counterproductive and is an essential means to direct directly to job seekers, as we propose with our amendment. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u247	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the Sub-programme Training and Education. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 52. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Fellowship Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 50. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2613 – Republic of Slovenia inspectorate for work. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Editation and Control in the Work Area. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. As with the previous budget, we also allocate half a million euros to the Inspectorate for work for 2016. Why we do this is practically self-evident in our society. Pocket employment is on the rise. In most of these cases, there is also a violation of labour law and illegal interference with labour rights. The number of serious violations is increasing, as is confirmed among others by the reports of the Labour Inspectorate itself. The scope of the Labour Inspectorate is steadily increasing. Over the last six years, the number of economic operators under supervision has increased by as much as 30,000. On the other hand, the number of labour inspectors has decreased from 88 to 80, with only half of them working in the field of labour relations. It is very obvious that we need a qualitative leap in the area of labour and social control. One of these guidelines in a qualitative leap is this amendment proposed in the United Left, namely the training and employment of new labour inspectors. In fact, when we face an increase in companies when we face an increase in the number of infringements of labour law, we cannot face this in any other way than by increasing the number of inspectors. In order to increase the number of inspectors, we need to allocate additional resources to the inspectorate for work. There is no other measure that could make up for this. That is why I call on everyone here on behalf of our labour law, on behalf of the social security of Slovenian workers and workers, to support this amendment and to enable respect for the hard-earned and hard-earned labour rights in this country. We must not forget that it is work that creates all the value, and it is right to protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u249	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Editation and Control in the Work Area. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health and decision-making on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the primary level. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Socialists spend an additional €1.5 million on investment at the primary level. We are very concerned about the fact that investment in healthcare is declining by 27 million this year and by 7 million in 2014. Here, too, it must be borne in mind that, due to a substantial overaverage, the municipalities will also find themselves in a frenzy and will devote fewer investments to health care. It is therefore to some extent surprising that the Government does not support our amendments and that it has not provided additional resources in the supplementary draft budget. This amendment binds to investments at the primary level, called health homes. Although the Republic of Slovenia is not a co-founder of health homes, it is nevertheless obliged to assist municipalities in their investments. To substantiate this, we can find ourselves in the very description of the sub-programme, and I will quote: "The acquisition and modernisation of functional space, the acquisition of appropriate equipment and the improvement of basic health standards for the population." And then, "...access to health services for citizens in areas or municipalities where the activity is not yet carried out." End of quote. Examples such as these complications a few months ago with a paediatric dispenser in the Poljanska Valley show that the Ministry should be significantly more committed and involved in regulating the situation in primary health care, by means of technical assistance, with cash deposits. This is the most the Ministry can do, and it is only right that it intervenes on these levers. This is particularly important because of the introduction of an emergency medical care system. I'm asking for your support for our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u251	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the primary level. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 63. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. We support investments at the secondary and tertiary levels of our health care with the poor 70 million additional euros that we are earmarking with our amendment for this purpose. In the Slovenian healthcare system, according to the latest data, more than 200,000 people are waiting for either intervention or review. This is 17% more than last year and shows that our health care is facing bottlenecks and that problems in this area for users are still increasing for citizens and citizens. One of the reasons for the bottlenecks is that investment has been mainly or almost exclusively invested in emergency medicine in recent years. Of course, hospitals and specialist clinics were briefly drawn here. Now we think it's time to compensate. The problem of bottlenecks should be addressed immediately, and the Ministry has all the data at its disposal. Where, though, are additional supplies needed to remedy the situation? I will give only two in support of my argument. These are CT and magnetic resonance devices, or, rather, they are not, because we are among the worst thirds of the OECD countries per capita. Then, days ago, we were able to read about delays in the UKC cardiology department in Ljubljana. This is not where bottlenecks occur due to lack of doctors, not because of human resources problems. The problem is not that the ZZZ does not want to pay for additional interventions, but the problem is short in outdated and worn appliances, specifically chronographs. The Ministry cannot claim here that it has a sufficient number of resources at its disposal. However, at the meeting of the committee responsible, the Minister announced that the budget was sufficient to carry out all the necessary projects in 2016. The problem I just described requires urgent intervention. However, we are talking about health infrastructure, we are talking about human health, we are talking about more than 200,000 citizens, citizens waiting for a review or an intervention. And that really requires immediate action. At least one step in this direction we have taken in the United Left with the proposal of this amendment, and we now call on all of you to support the tertiary and secondary levels of our health. In general, however, in the United Left, we do not agree with the direction of health policy because it strongly points to a lack of knowledge and a lack of political will in the Government and in the Ministry. Planned projects and funds are not enough to remove these major bottlenecks in our health system. So I can only call you once more and lay it on your heart to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u253	We are voting on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Investment Investment at the secondary and tertiary level. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 7 votes in favour and 61 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to decide on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Young Researchers, Mobility and Encouragement of the Best Researchers. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u254	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia should be called a knowledge society, because no country that does not invest in science is investing in research, researchers, cannot promise some long-term vision, long-term development. And that's why we said that in Slovenia there are a lot of scientists, a lot of quality people, people who are able to somehow guide this wagon forward. But with this budget we are going in the opposite direction – back. In fact, this item is cancelled under the sub-item Young Researchers. In New Slovenia, we propose an amendment to raise funds by €10 million on this item. Look, even in this room, many of you have started an academic career out of young researchers. And imagine having that in your early youth when you finished college, disabled. For this reason, let us support science, support young researchers, support the amendment, recommend the amendment of New Slovenia, because they can take everything away from us, only knowledge cannot be taken away from us, it is in our head.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u255	We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Youth Researchers sub-programme, mobility and incentives for the best researchers. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 51. [[in favour of a vote of 15.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Activities of higher education. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. True, I myself was a young researcher, and we also rested a little of our colleague Kordiš. I agree with most of what my colleague said before me. But I cannot somehow agree with their approach to the amendments. Because if anyone, New Slovenia here always talks, we have to pay debts, we have to pay, we have to pay. When it's amended, they forget it. Of course, we do not go in the United Left without creating for a long time. That is why in our amendment we are based on the movement from the Enterprise sub-programme and the innovative environment to the sub-programme of Higher Education Activities. As I said in the debate, very domestically, so that people who don't come from wealthy families can go to doctoral studies. After all, I was talking about wood before. You know what helps you with wood if you get noises in your head, if I say a little more at home. But the joke's on the side. With water and wood, knowledge is our only saving plant. And how, somehow, not only is this government, but all previous governments, but I can say, from 2004 onwards, they are leading to science, to research, to the reform already mentioned, I am actually personally afraid that my children will escape from this country, which I certainly do not want. If I go back to the amendment. It's actually about proposing some real amendment, if I put it this way, moving from one item to another. And if I also tell you in your neoliberal language: entrepreneurship and innovation and promotions without knowledge, which precedes the topic, is an empty slap. But in the United Left, we're not for empty-handed. I hope you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u257	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the Sub-programme Activities of Higher Education. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 65. [[in favour of a vote of 5.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Sports Infrastructure. First, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Sport infrastructure under number 1. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u258	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The athletes are our country, our homeland always in great pride when they come home with medals, shootings, arranging receptions in the markets and streets and worshiping them as small gods. But on the other hand, we must also be aware of the conditions in which our top athletes operate and that compared to foreign athletes, they have incomparably poorer infrastructure and poorer conditions. With this amendment, we increase resources for the development of sports infrastructure not only for top athletes, but also for our young children and your young children, so that they can have conditions for better, more effective training, exercise. Finally, it is the health of young people. This is why we also propose that these funds, with our amendment, increase mainly in the direction of new construction, additional construction, maintenance of infrastructure for the development of sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u259	We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group to the sub-programme Sport infrastructure under number 1. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sports Infrastructure sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and decision-making on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and library activities under number 1. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities under number 2. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Cultural heritage is something that binds us to our ancestors as well as to our descendants. We are obliged to keep it, and the reduction of funds for it is unacceptable and will be very much repaid. Since 2009, cultural resources have decreased by almost €60 million. These cuts have reduced the quality and scope of the cultural offer and have exacerbated the economic situation of those working in culture, particularly those who are not regularly employed, reptiles and self-employed. Of course, it is not all the fault of the Ministry for the preservation of cultural heritage for the lack of such funds. We know that the original sin has been committed before, but we believe that one part of the funds would have been spent, and we have set aside a million euros to increase these assets to preserve cultural heritage, to take over from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to promote foreign investment and the openness of the economy. These funds are mostly used for non-productive purposes in our view or even harmful to the welfare of people. More than two and a half million euros are also earmarked for the so-called offensive marketing of Slovenia as a location for foreign investors. For our understanding, this is not the marketing of Slovenia as a tourist destination, it is about advertising the cheap sale of Slovenia. We are confident that tax money would be more prudent and smarter spent to preserve cultural heritage. Please support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u261	Mr Saša Tabaković has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! It should be stressed that the cultural heritage protection item at the Ministry of Culture in the past has actually been higher, but not only because of the funds provided from the integrated budget, but also because of the funds provided by the European Union funds, which have unfortunately decreased or are very minor in the new perspective 2014-2020. In view of the current financial situation in the country, given the need for sustainability of the public financial deficit and in view of the cut within the Ministry, taking into account all these circumstances, it still seems to us in the SMC Group that cultural financial resources are making a priority investment in the potential of people and their creativity and not in the reconstruction of infrastructure, which does not mean that these items are no longer in the budget. However, reduced resources within the budget or within certain programmes of this cultural heritage protection item will certainly be spent more carefully and we will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u263	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u264	President, thank you for your word. I will, of course, support this amendment. However, I will not only support it because of my own principled commitment to the protection of cultural heritage, reading culture, library activities, but also because I can deal with what little means for library activities are in place on a daily basis. In Škofja Loka we have a library, which is very well driven by the existing generation of human resources, and has been very well driven in the past. This library not only supports Škofje Loka, but also covers and cares for the intellectual development of the Selska Valley, the Poljanska Valley, is called the former archdiocese municipality. But despite all the efforts of these people, despite the efforts of the local community, of course our library, and perhaps another library, is constantly facing problems, including spatial, infrastructure and so on. So I have all the reasons, principled and also, I'll say, quite practical from field experience, why I'm going to support this amendment. I hope that there will be at least another Member among all the parliamentary groups, who will repeat this gesture and support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u265	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. This Parliament has the opportunity, by its rules of procedure, to hold meetings of committees outside this location, which is very rarely carried out, except in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space and the Committee on Agriculture. However, a committee that, perhaps even because of the resentment of the chairman of this committee, met somewhat less frequently at the start, the Committee on Culture, held a field meeting in Maribor, where we showed you the situation in our region with the infrastructure state of cultural institutions. At the time you were all honeyd, you nodded, we will save, up and down, now we have here some dialogue actor is an actor, a player against a player, I have a very popular performance, but everyone shows their culture or non-culture, someone sings the word, others can, thirdly, look a little easier in the mirror, so I will support this amendment. Also because of this, I used to be a daughter-in-law in Škofja Loka, and I went to the library in slippers, and I can no longer do so in Maribor. You will enjoy science, you will enjoy culture, you will all love to talk about Slovenia, about Slovenians, about national identity, up and down, but without the reading movement of this Parliament too. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u267	Dr Dragan Matić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u268	Now I will not support this amendment, but I note that the Members of the United Left have slightly confused the argument in these statements why they will support this amendment. Cultural heritage and resources for cultural infrastructure are, of course, one story, and resources for programmes and for the implementation of programming activities of public institutions and NGOs are, of course, another matter. As far as this is concerned, it is for the programming resources that we can say that the 2016 budget has increased because they come from an integral part of the budget, that is to say that these funds for the programme activity will be at least the same if not even more than they were in 2015. As regards money for cultural heritage and cultural infrastructure, as colleague Tabakovic said, the issue is that the European perspective for drawing on funds 2007-2013 has been completed, and unfortunately the decline in European funds at all ministries is drastic, not only at the Ministry of Culture, but elsewhere. It seems to me that the Ministry of Education has lost over 60 million in a similar sense to the Ministry of Culture. This is why it comes to thinking about how this loss would be compensated. But without the adoption of a development strategy in the field of cultural heritage, it is, of course, difficult to ask for funds and it is difficult to apply this in the preparation of the budget. I therefore count on and hope that the ministry in this area will be more successful than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u269	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and librarian activity under number 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 63. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Art programs. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. Kolega Matić, who is the president of the Committee on Culture, as well as my double colleague, Saša Tabakovic, is said to be a fellow Member and a playmate, stressed that they think it is better to invest in people's creativity. Well, let's see now. With this next amendment, we propose an increase of €800,000 in funding from the Art Programmes with the aim of increasing funding for live culture. Well, then. You know, due to the tightening of the belt, culture has suffered a lot and, above all, the programmes, production, production quality and, above all, the standards of those who are not regularly employed as many as we know here. People who are self-employed and do not mention independent producers who are working hard to maintain at least some cultural, artistic or even social standards in artistic production. In short, in the end, let me say that investing in culture was by no means alone and it was never just a waste of money away, as is often the case with emphasis or thought. Investing in culture is worth it. Culture is an economic sector. Every euro invested in culture often returns to tourism, accommodations, agriculture, transport. In short, a culture with the least ecological dirt is the cleanest economic sector and the most contributes to other industries. Colleagues and colleagues, if you really care about creating and producing live art programs, then you will support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u271	Mr Saša Tabaković has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u272	Mr President, thank you for saying so. To some extent, I can agree with my colleague Violeto Tomić, but I do not think we can say that the government is culturally unaware anymore, as the funds from the integrated budget for programmes, culture and the media have increased on average by 8%, which is certainly not negligible. The item to which the United Left has proposed an amendment when it wants an additional EUR 800 000 should be stressed here that this item will receive an additional EUR 6 million in 2016 in 2015, which is certainly not a small amount of money. And if it's not an investment in creativity, then I don't understand what it is. So, given the financial capacity of the country and, as we have already said, given the need for sustainability of the public financial deficit, this amendment, unfortunately, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u273	We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Art programs. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 66. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3341 – Archive of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Editing the system and supporting activities in the field of archiving. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, 21 for them and 52 for them. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4215 – Celje District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, and no one voted against 69. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4216 – Koper District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Active Settlement of Disputes – Support Activities. We're voting. It's hard to be serious about that. 76 Members were present, no one was in favour, and 70 were against them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4217 – District Court in Kranj. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u274	I think I know the rules of procedure, but since we have several amendments, which are almost the same numbers, only cities change and there are no advocates to defend, I ask: Is it possible for the President to vote if we all agree, in a set?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u275	I'm sorry. Business isn't good. Even if the debate can be shared, we are moving to budget user 4217 – District Court in Kranj. [[…]] We are once again deciding on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 74 Members and Members were present, no one was in favour, she was 69. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4218 – District Court in Ljubljana. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present, none of whom were in favour, against 66. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4219 – Maribor District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 74 Members and Members were present, no one voted against them, 68 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4220 – District Court in Murski Sobota. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1 and against 70. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4221 – District Court in Novi Gorica. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support activities. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, no one voted against them, 70 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4222 – New Town District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 75 Members and Members were present, no one voted against them, 69 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4223 – District Court in Krske. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 74 Members and Members were present, no one voted against them, 70 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4224 – District Court on Ptuj. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present. No one voted against them, 71 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 71.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4225 – District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 77 Members and Members were present, no one voted against them, 72 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 72.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4230 – District Court in Ljubljana. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the Sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – Support Activities. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and no one voted against them, 69 of them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 53 votes against and 25 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 26. [[It's a vote.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. As no amendment has been adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the supplementary draft budget is coordinated in terms of revenue and expenditure and in terms of parts. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and 27 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 has been adopted. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u276	The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the budget for 2016 and the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 are not harmonised and therefore the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u277	The harmonisation amendment will be divided or distributed on the e-club or as soon as it is received. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Republic of Slovenia's updated draft budget for 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! Nor does the 2017 budget give any vision and strategy what is actually going to happen then and what the country will spend money on. In fact, there are no priorities, there are no programmes, there is some continuation of the 2016 budget also in the 2017 budget. However, what is most clear in the 2017 budget is that the debt will not end and that the debt will actually continue. Moreover, the 2017 debt forecasts show that the country will again be more indebted than it will be to repay its debts and that it will have to add to the payment of its interest. In other words, this means that the 2017 budget does not give any perspective. It does not give any perspective to young people, nor does it give any perspective to those who are working today who are employed, retired, in short, to anyone to simply increase creation in this country. The tax forecast also shows that the conditions of management will increase, that taxation will increase and, in other words, that is, the outflow of companies abroad to other countries where conditions are better. The competitiveness scale shows that Slovenia is not among those countries that would attract capital, either domestic or foreign, nor is it a country that would keep those people who are the most creative if we are talking about diplomats here for example. Graduates are leaving, too. Several thousand have left the country in recent years. Since the government of Mir Cerar does not give a perspective because the government of Mir Cerar does not even have a vision and strategy for 2017, nor for 2016, we will not support this budget in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u279	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will not support the Joint Left of the 2017 budget. We can see that the 2016 budget has already been unacceptable and the 2017 budget goes even further along this path and is in fact even worse. I can base this on three cases. To begin with, the resources of the Ministry of Health are declining according to this year's implementation. Due to the over-average, of course, municipalities will also invest less in this sector, and the share of the Institute's funds for health insurance will also decrease in relation to gross social product. In this way, it will not be possible to remove the bottlenecks that have left us facing as many as 200,000 of our fellow citizens today, fellow citizens caught waiting for an intervention or review. There is also a reduction in social assistance resources by 11% compared to 2011. The budget here is based on two assumptions. On the one hand, it is envisaged that the number of beneficiaries will decrease and, on the other hand, it assumes that there will be other social assistance and protective allowances at a level that does not allow for decent survival. The first assumption is not realistic and the second assumption is very deeply antisocial. The number of recipients of social assistance and the allowance continues to increase. In addition, because of nonlife conditions today, many people do not even ask for help. One of the fundamental reasons is that they fear that the state will sit on the property. The government also simply ignores the fact that minimum income should be at least EUR 385. Since this figure was calculated in 2009, the poverty risk threshold has not decreased, on the contrary, it has increased. Therefore, sufficient resources should already be foreseen under this budget to ensure that these funds are sufficient to raise cash social assistance and a security allowance to at least EUR 385. Everything else is mere deception, antisocial deception. Poverty is a serious problem in this society, and we must also deal with it and begin to remedy it with a budget that is one of the key acts of this country. The same budget for 2017 provides for 200 million additional tax inflows. That's extremely small. In addition to the short-term measures to tax corporate profits, high wages and capital revenues, some others can be introduced by 2017. Let me list them as a framework: a social tax on property, a public health benefit to compensate for supplementary health insurance, and a public insurance for long-term care. The budget for 2017 does not contain any of the above, remains extremely social and we will not support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u281	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present and 55 votes against 29. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to budget user 1211 – National Assembly. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Activities of the National Assembly. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you, President. We are talking about 2017, which is a year for which no one here in this country can say that there is not enough time to plan. The parliamentary commission of inquiry needs professional assistance, we have already found that. The Minister of Finance says "we don't give money for this professional assistance", but at the same time two coalition parties share this opinion. That is why I appeal to all other Members, i.e. those in the opposition as well as in the coalition, to allow the parliamentary commission of inquiry to receive appropriate professional assistance in 2017, until that day we will destroy the resistance of Judge Desha Cener and perhaps anyone else who is unable to obtain all the relevant material. We will have hundreds of thousands of pages of material, and without appropriate professional assistance, the parliamentary investigative committee will not be able to carry out this work in accordance with the mandate. I therefore appeal once again to all Members to vote as we will in the SDS Group when we support this amendment and allow the parliamentary investigative commission to identify who is responsible for the bank hole and what is the responsibility of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u283	Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment, which provides 150 000 euros for professional assistance to the Commission to investigate the bank hole. Regrettably, there was no support for the 2016 amendment and I expect that, however, there will also be an explanation given by the President of the National Assembly after the 2016 amendment vote, which is actually a surprise, because if there is any comment on the vote, it is appropriate to point out this before the vote on the content. Certainly, the fact that in the context of the situation in which Slovenia is, and when we are actually trying to bring everything connected to the economic and financial crisis into a manageable framework, of course, is crucial that we clear that very starting point as soon as possible, so that we will have no difficulty in creating budgets or the law on the implementation of the budget or other laws adopted during that period, because of the consequences of the financial and economic crisis and the consequences that have been the subject of the bank hole, and therefore also the burden of the state budget. In the absence of understanding that the National Assembly is not interested in revealing any possible deficiencies in the bank hole, it is very important that this amendment is supported and that we will support it in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u285	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, vote against this amendment in our parliamentary group for a simple reason, because we are responsible for the fact that this budget structure, which has not been made by chance, has been very responsible and with great effort, does not fall because it will not find an effective way of knowing financially how we ourselves will find these possible missing funds within the National Assembly. I would also like to point out that, as far as is known, the procedure also counts in the National Assembly. Therefore, if such a decision is to take place, we will have to say one last word at your College of Heads of the Groupes, and to this end we will also have to look for those financial resources. And we'll find them for sure. That's one segment. However, the second segment is that we know that the whole law on investigative commissions has now gone to the Constitutional Court to be assessed precisely because of the direct work that the Commission will do in the context of its operation. And the next aspect. Let us not forget that there are limited powers of the parliamentary commission in the performance of its work. The Parliamentary Commission may seek political responsibility and nothing more than on the basis of the documentation it has. For all the reasons mentioned above, the SMC cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u287	Before I give the word forward, let me say that the harmonisation amendment has now been published on the e-club. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will certainly support the proposed amendment. Given that the bank hole is the source of all evil in Slovenia and in view of the commitments made before the elections, we will all stand for this bank hole to be investigated, on the one hand support to law enforcement authorities and on the other hand support to the parliamentary commission of inquiry. However, the point is that we have a private organisation on the one hand that can investigate controversial loans and these credits cannot be investigated by the most democratically elected body. That is why we will certainly support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u289	Is there any other explanation? The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you, President. I will support this amendment because it certainly does not hold that the budget will fall due to 150 000 euros. It's a sixteen-millionth of a budget. I will support this amendment because it certainly does not hold that the case in the Constitutional Court is due to the work of the investigative commission. Please read what Judge Desha Cenner's ruling says. And I will also support this amendment because it certainly does not hold that the parliamentary commission of inquiry can investigate only political responsibility and nothing more. It may investigate what works have been confirmed here by 68 votes in favour and has constitutional protection because it is misled by Article 93 of the Constitution. Therefore, this amendment is essential for the normal professional work of the Commission of Inquiry. Those who do not confirm this amendment will in some way wish that the Commission does not investigate the bank hole. It's a very simple equation. I want to get to the bottom of this story myself, so I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u291	We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Activities of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Financial Equalisation for the municipalities. The explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u292	In Novi Slovenija we support the even development of Slovenia. And like the finance minister, it is difficult to draw up a budget because the desire is more than we have the money at our disposal, the same is happening to every mayor of the Slovenian municipality. But the mayors aren't just mayors of the municipality. We are a community of people, we are first citizens, and it is in the congregations that we satisfy those basic human needs. We all want our children or grandchildren to have a good kindergarten so that everyone can be included in this kindergarten. We all want proper roads, we all want a proper library, and I don't know what else. On the one hand, the state imposes new tasks on the municipalities, on the other hand constantly reducing funds. I regret that no agreement has been reached between the congregations or associations of congregations and the financial ministry or government. In New Slovenia we encourage all of you to support this amendment, because in fact all of us in the municipalities live and most realize our needs. The municipalities are chronically running out of money for investment and are barely carrying out their tasks, which are constantly being re-emerged by the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u293	We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group's New Slovenia sub-programme Financial Equalisation to municipalities. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 50. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Development Cooperation and International Assistance. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 50. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. First, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under point 1. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u294	In drawing on European funds, we have found that our congregations have been very successful. And as I have explained before, they are running out of money for investment, for development, for investment in the necessary infrastructure, so we have proposed these amendments and ask for support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u295	We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under point 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under point 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Adaptation to Climate Change. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. Climate change is a constant and we will witness more and more. We would therefore devote quite a few resources to climate change adaptation programmes. We are talking about a new start where the measures are not being implemented at the moment. Only subsidisation of insurance for damage already occurring on crops shall be carried out. With these subsidies that are now taking place, we are actually dissuading farmers to adapt and adapt to the choice of culture and method of production in order to permanently protect agricultural areas, for example by means of cross-border networks or by similar means. Although there was a strategy for adapting Slovenian agriculture and forestry to climate change in 2010 and 2011. The Action Plan was developed, but the activities were limited to 2010 and 2011. I would like to point out that this was before the icicle, before the skull that destroys our forests, before the scaffolding and similar weather accidents that we witness. We are acting like there will be no climate change. But we also need a change of cultures. Corn is one such case, whether it succeeds there or not. They meet on sandy soils and farmers do not worry too much because they then receive compensation or subsidies. We ride several times in the summers, and we see destroyed, burnt fields of corn. But it's not the farmers' fault. This should be highlighted. It is politics that must direct agriculture and farmers in the right direction. And it is true, of course, to adapt to climate change, for which we have earmarked resources in this amendment. Please support us, because agriculture is a very important and very strategic sector. We talk all the time about "let's buy Slovenian, transform Slovenian, eat Slovenian". But the conditions for this are not satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u297	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. No matter which ideological block you belong to, the fact is that climate change is happening. Another fact is what slightly more targeted researchers say is that there is a relative possibility that Pomurje will turn into a semi-arid. The third is that, although someone greatly commends their respective ministers for reducing our self-sustainment in seven, eight years of self-sustainment by half. In short, it is high time that we get serious about agriculture beyond going to some fun or traditional breakfast, because soon we will not have anything to put on the table for traditional breakfast. I will, of course, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u299	We are now really deciding on the amendment of the Joint Left to the Climate Change Adjustment Sub-programme. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 52. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme for rural development. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u300	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The new Slovenia is proposing the amendment in particular in view of the fact that we have a common agricultural policy, that we have set our targets to raise our self-sustainment in order to take care of rural areas. In particular, in order to ensure financial resources that these rural development measures can be implemented and implemented, New Slovenia is proposing an amendment that will provide financial resources at the level of 2015 and 2016, which means that the funds on this budget item are falling in 2017, so I do not know how we will then be able to achieve the objectives that we have set for ourselves in agriculture. That's why I expect support here because it's people, it's rural development, it's about raising self-care, raising agriculture, taking care of agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u301	We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Rural Development. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. First, we decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 1. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – is given by Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u302	We know how important roads are, how a place can be, how far a place can get closer to the center, and we know that well-maintained roads are also extremely important from a safety point of view. Since our roads are in bad shape because we need many more bonds, we have also voted on this before, and we propose an increase in this item.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u303	We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 1. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 25 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 3. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 4. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 5. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. We also see a great deal of malnutrition in the budget for Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. In our choice and in the proposal itself, we have been very, I would say, precise and very carefully selected those projects that are really the most necessary that will bring the economy the greatest benefit, so that we propose only a 15 million increase in this item. More or less, these are projects that we have already proposed for the financial year 2016. It is the continuation and completion of these projects. The need is great, and this increase will significantly reduce the quality of roads themselves in the Republic of Slovenia and do not maintain the existing state. It is necessary to be aware of this and also to be aware of the damage to the economy under this heading, as well as the damage caused by the years, to be aware of the means by which this annual loss of maintenance will have to be replaced in the future, I would say, satisfactory roads in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u305	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under sub-point 5. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 6. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u306	Of course, it should be reiterated that this is an important link against the region of Korea, which we have also proposed in 2016. Sections, we know that because of the financial scale, it is not possible to build in a single swing, but that each project needs multi-annual financial stimulation, both because of budget constraints and because of physical construction itself. It is also proposed in 2017 that this important step against the financial support of Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u307	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under point 6. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 49. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2550 – Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management under number 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Water Management under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2551 – Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Environmental monitoring and hydrological activity. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 50. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Training and Education. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 7 for them and 50 for them. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Fellowship sub-programme. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 22 for them and 50 for them. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2613 – Republic of Slovenia inspectorate for work. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Work Market Regulation and Control. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 8 were voted against and 50 were present. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health and decision-making on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the primary level. We're voting. There were 80 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against and 68 votes against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Investment Investment on a secondary and tertiary level. We're voting. There were 80 Members and Members present, 10 of whom were voted against and 67 against. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to decide on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Young Researchers, Mobility and Encouragement of the Best Researchers. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u308	In our discussions, we often talk about how we want to help young people, how valuable they are, how valuable their knowledge is, how we want them to be employed and so on. Well, these young people, we know they're going abroad, and I'm sure or I'm afraid they'll stay there because they're going where they value their knowledge. Although I would like you to come with new knowledge back to Slovenia and enrich our space, I'm afraid the best will stay there. This amendment will be supported by our parliamentary group, we have proposed it because we want young researchers in Slovenia to have more support and to be able to appreciate and integrate their knowledge into the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u309	We are voting on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Youth Researchers sub-programme, mobility and incentives for the best researchers. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. There were 23 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Activities of higher education. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 62. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Sports Infrastructure. First, we decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to the sub-programme Sport infrastructure under number 1. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 50. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sports Infrastructure sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 50. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and decision-making on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and library activities under number 1. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 52. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Art Programmes. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 69. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. They warned me I skipped one. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities under number 2. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 63. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to the last amendment, i.e. to budget user 3341 – Archive of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Editing the system and supporting activities in the field of archiving. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 52. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the Special Part of the Complementary Draft Budget. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 27. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Development Programme Plan. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 28. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the Development Programmes Plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. As no amendment has been adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I note that the supplementary draft budget is coordinated in terms of revenue and expenditure and in terms of parts. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 as a whole. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u310	Thank you very much, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we voted on the amendments to the 2016 and 2017 budgets. No amendments were adopted by the coalition, with the exception of support, to provide additional funds or special funds for the Board of Inquiry on banking. From this point of view, I can say that we are once again on the side of promises and words about how the coalition wants to cooperate with the opposition, how the good proposals of the opposition are acceptable to the coalition, and, on the other hand, the actions of the Act show exactly the opposite of words. [[..]] That's why I don't pretend to be any different in the future. As long as this coalition doesn't fall apart. Then there will be a split and then there will be no such vote. However, it must be said that in these times of unrest, in times when things do not happen every day, this coalition has taken full responsibility for the state, development and well-being of the people in this country. If anything happens or there's no money left anywhere, we know exactly who's responsible for it today and here. For all the events, for all those who will be good, and for all those who will be bad. According to the promises, it can be a disappointment for someone; for another, it's a real state. The real situation is that way. So I'd just like to ask you something. Don't talk about cooperation anymore. The budget is a system act, it is a strategic act and it is your responsibility in all of this – those which are strategic, which are state-efficient, in short, because today you have also defined the country-specific themes as you want them to be, and, of course, take full responsibility for them in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u311	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u312	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we performed constructively in the 2016 and 2017 budgets in the entire debate. We performed constructively when we showed governments and coalitions where reserves are on the income side, where there are opportunities for more social, fairer taxation than the current, where are options or deviations from European standards, where are the gaps that Slovenia could take advantage of but not. On the expenditure side, we have shown where the priorities that the government has missed are, say, health care, where we have a 30 million cut, and on the other hand 200,000 patients and patients waiting, or education, where we have a 27 million cut, while at the same time in higher education we have the most pauperized and prefigured academic cadre, at least as far as younger generations are concerned in this country. We have warned about this and have also tried to make a minimum contribution with the amendments to this discussion on the budget. It is said that we would have shown with some minimal reallocation, which was not interesting, it is said that we did not go to this principle, our member from the constituency of XY suggests that an additional 5 million would be devoted to the road in this area, nor did we go to the babolinese principles of the type to take interest on government debt and put into some social consumption, but we went to some serious reallocation within budget lines where we estimated that the money available to this country could be redeployed from an item where it would be used less productively to an item where it would be more productively spent. This is how we see our role, and so, after all, we also see dialogue in this National Assembly and how this debate should take place. And our amendments were all rejected in order. You even responded to some of them, but mostly the coalition did the job the way it did, called the "against" button and washes its hands. I hope this will stop, but otherwise I am joining the call, let's stop fooling around with cooperation, let's stop drifting away with some constructive attitude towards the opposition, because in practice we see everything but this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u313	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u314	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, vote in favour of the draft budget 2017 in our parliamentary group. I would like to point out once again that this proposal is made up of extremely difficult situations. In situations in which there was virtually no room for manoeuvre in this respect for the division of the public financial market. In situations that have not been done by this coalition, or at least not by our client, the Modern Centre Party, and by colleagues from the opposition, from the United Left. And all the other parties were also part of the reason why we are today ahead of the draft budget we are ahead of. I'd like to point out one more thing. This draft budget, as well as the draft budget for 2016, is the result of coordination and dialogue with the social partners. Unfortunately, we regret the failure of local communities. The proposal was first in the parliamentary procedure in October, and now we are running a second round here. And at this point, I would like to thank, on behalf of the coalition, the opposition parliamentary groups, which have also participated in committee discussions for a constructive majority of the time. I would like to report that we have taken these discussions and these messages, particularly those substantive, programme-oriented messages very seriously, and that they have also made a significant contribution to how some substantive priorities will also be made within the budget talks in a given area. So your efforts are far from in vain. But I would like to point out one more thing in a political sense. Look, the decision and the will of our citizens and citizens was to entrust us with the responsibility to form and lead this country in this mandate. For this reason, we have full responsibility for how we will implement this budget and how we have drawn it up. If this is as wrong as you speak on the opposition side, then it will be announced to the voters on the first official occasion, which is called the next parliamentary elections. Thank you very much and very much for your budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u315	We'll continue when you're done talking. I can wait. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Of course, we will not support the budget. But the last thing I understood was somehow, I was talking about a colleague, not you, the president, but a mockery from the opposition. You speak, speak, prepare, work, we hear you, but we respect you nothing. And it's true, it's your responsibility, just don't sell to voters and people who listen to us and watch you cooperate with us. These are two completely different things. One is cooperation, and the other is to talk about cooperation. It is absolutely your responsibility, and unfortunately the results of this work will soon be revealed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u317	An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – is given by Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u318	In New Slovenia we regret that there was no room for opposition amendments. Above all, I regret that there was no common language with the congregations. As I explained earlier our amendments, the congregations are the ones who actually care the most about meeting our basic needs in the places where we live. With this money, they're not going to be able to be development-oriented with this calculation anymore. I also regret that this budget is also not development-oriented in the sense that it does not foresee rationalisation in public consumption and that it no longer provides incentives for a better business environment. The amendments, which we have also tabled to encourage young researchers, knowledge, research, have not been taken into account, adopted and the New Slovenia Group has decided not to support the budget. However, we are aware that our task is to be a constructive opposition, or opposition, that controls the functioning of government parties. Of course, you take the biggest responsibility. But we have said how this budget could be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u319	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u320	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Like the 2016 budget, we will also unanimously support the budget for 2017 in the Desus Group. The arguments are practically identical, why we will also support this budget. As already stated in the previous explanation, of course it is not an ideal budget; we must all be aware of it together, but it is optimal today and now, so in time and space. I believe that if each of us 90 Members were to make such a budget, I believe that the two of us would not have made it the same. Would you put a little emphasis on the subject geographically, or would there be more emphasis on social issues than on education, education and so on and so on? Of course, the coalition here assumes responsibility, including Members and Members of Desus, and in particular, I once again warn ministers and ministers, the executive part of our authority, to be in line with the cuts in budgetary resources, which are such as, in particular, to bring its targets and tasks forward successfully by the end of the financial year. Of course, this should not affect those target groups that need help: pensioners, social threats, families and children. I believe that in the prudent implementation of tasks and responsibilities in all areas, in rational behaviour and in the prudent use of budgetary resources, we can achieve those objectives that are recorded both in the programmes if you want to be in the Desus programme and in the coalition agreement and bring it to a successful conclusion by the end of the financial year. Members and Ambassadors of Desus will be supported by the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u321	Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u322	Thank you. Since I have been in Parliament for quite some time, I also take responsibility for it. However, I would like to say that the debates were never different, that it was a coalition, and what is right, that a budget was made in accordance with its capabilities, and that the opposition, in accordance with its actions and its thinking and its accumulation of political points, was making amendments, one well-intentioned, one like, one realistic and one unrealistic. After the end of this budget, we all went out of this room every year, but the next day was a new morning. Social Democrats are pleased that we have agreed with the social partners, as regards the public sector, very unhappy that we have not agreed with the municipalities, but as partners of this coalition we will also reject these amendments, despite the fact that we have the only mayor's coalition to be able, despite the fact that only 6 of us, to accept those amendments in the ZIPRS, which gives the municipalities more money, but we will make a real assessment. However, in order to support that amendment put forward by Mr Ange Logar, I must say that it was solely because it was important in politics too, and the word also applies in politics. The Social Democrats will support this budget. I think that the budget is sustainable, and I hope that there will be no need to prepare any rebalancies soon, not for Slovenia, not because of Slovenian GDP, but because of other circumstances, because we know what is going on in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u323	In doing so, we have exhausted explanations of vote in our own name. Please sign up. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u324	Thank you, President. Look, if everyone, the entire coalition did what one of the coalition parties did, who kept their word, then I shouldn't be talking right now. But, see, with this draft budget you've overturned the opinion of the municipalities, we've had them here today, you've run over the cops, you've even said that the line of police is shameful, protecting our borders, the coalition, the Prime Minister said that, and you've overrun all the opposition proposals. Now you're preaching about cooperation. Look, that's a lot of cynicism. In other words, the largest coalition party after a year and a half finds that the opposition must not be seen as an opposition. Because I understand the opposition as a criticism of the government's functioning, I will not vote in favour of this poor budget. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u325	An explanation of the voice, but this time I really ask for an explanation of the voice, in his own name Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u326	Thank you for your word, thank you for your lesson. Two points, first a view of the budget as a whole then on the question of averages. What I have heard from all this debate or nondebate on the budget and how you have rejected most of the legitimate non-pulsistic amendments of the opposition, I can say that this budget gives us the following message: sick and uneducated, infrastructural, drinking contaminated water, eating foreign potatoes, disregarding climate change, we will courageously and, above all, decently fall into ruin. This is a message, unfortunately, of this budget. Or if you want otherwise, these two budgets, Comrade Kordish said that for 2017 it is worse, is NNNP. I will say with the words of Mr Cerar: it is an inappropriate, inappropriately irresponsible budget or budget. If I touch it, I won't be so rude if I touch the averages. That's a story that goes on for years. I agree with the President of the Court of Auditors, if they wanted to, that would have been resolved a long time ago. I don't know if you're all aware, about 70% of the legislation that we're adopting here is being implemented locally. As an expert in this area, I am the theme on the home committee that, say, in more advanced, smarter countries, all municipalities have not the same set of mandatory tasks and do not have the same level of averages. But to shudder into this you are obviously in Slovenia this strong coalition does not hope. In this way, in the neighboring Austrian Styrians went to reform local self-government. For the end of responsibility. No, I don't agree if I'm in the opposition that I'm, like, one of your performances said, irresponsible. I actually have to do more work because no one's servicing my data. But I'm not doing politics based on media data. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u327	Now I'm gonna open another circle, but I'm not gonna do it again. I wouldn't keep opening them. As long as it's a wish? Okay. Please sign up. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u328	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against this budget for an important reason. No amendment of the opposition itself has been confirmed. In the opposition, we are sitting alone who do not know anything that we say to the crazies, propose bad things and so on. It means that if I come from any area as an opposition MP, it is from my constituency and I want an amendment to settle a matter there, and because I am an opposition Member, it is a mistake. That's how you explain it here in the National Assembly. And, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone thinks that this cooperation is between the opposition and the coalition, when you reject everything we suggest, then he's really very, very wrong. I will say many times in this National Assembly because I want and do everything in my power to cooperate and seek solutions in such a way that most end up satisfied. But not in such a way as to reject everything as if we were from where we came into this Parliament. Therefore, dear coalition, what your group leader has said, that in a period of time, true citizens and citizens will say what they think about such a coalition, and you must be afraid of that. They'll tell you exactly what they belong to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u329	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u330	Your Honor! Strengthening security is in the development interest of the country of Slovenia. If entrepreneurs do not have confidence in the security of the country, they will not invest, they will not open up new quality jobs. If ordinary people, citizens, citizens do not have confidence in the security of the country, they will keep money, most likely at home in a sock for bad times. The economy, when money does not circulate, stops and enters the spiral of decay, into the spiral of economic disintegration, entrepreneurship, the state, and eventually the money runs out for everyone. Just two months ago, the National Assembly adopted a virtually unanimous conclusion that there is a need to strengthen security, that more money should be spent on the police, on the military, on all those civil protection services that are taking part in the challenges you have put before our country. But this decision was not followed by the government. This decision was not followed by the coalition at the time of the adoption of the budget. Some items in the area of defence, the police, therefore, in the area of human security, which is now crucial, as Paris has tragically shown, are even lower than they used to be. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, your budget is in conflict with the interests of security and is contrary to the development interests of the country of Slovenia and I will therefore vote "against".
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u331	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 as a whole. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 33. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 18. 11. 2015, published on the e-club. Since the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of the Nova Slovenija Group to Article 53 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall become irrelevant to the same Article. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 53. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party notes that the 2016 budget is not mutually coordinated because it simply does not have a very important item, that is, setting the average for municipalities. This average is part of the income. The income is the income of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and part is taken there. Since it is not determined how much they are to receive or to what extent municipalities are eligible in the 2016 budget, this budget is therefore not substantively completed and does not actually provide the municipalities with assurance that they will operate in accordance with the Constitution. Local self-government is a constitutional category that this government does not seem to respect. More. In fact, she will bring the congregations to their knees. Why? Because it constantly imposes new tasks on them because it increases their costs, even when it has agreed with the unions to increase wages and so on. Congregations are also the ones who have to provide these salaries, such as salaries in kindergartens, salaries in schools, and so on and so forth. Since the congregations will not be able to do so, they will increase the costs of kindergartens, education costs, and so on. In short, citizens will pay this price in the end and the local communities will not carry out their constitutional tasks. In local communities, citizens exercise their interests most directly, and there is more to see how they live, what quality of services they have, how they live. In fact, their prosperity is visible there. The government simply did not conclude an agreement with the municipalities. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an amendment to actually make this happen. Here we sum up the average of the Union of Slovenia and other associations representing the municipalities in Slovenia. This is the average of €536 and we propose that the coalition adopt this amendment, since, after all, the formula, which is legally stated, this average is even higher than €600. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we are responsible for this and, of course, we are also systemic to ensure the functioning of local communities in accordance with all legislation and constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u333	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u334	Most likely if we ask each of you in this hall whether you support local self-government, the answer is yes. We have an interesting local administration system that actually works very centrally. The State is the one who determines what finances and what resources the municipalities will have. We do not have, as in some other countries, other levels of local self-government, that they also have substantial or sufficient resources of their own. In Slovenia, the municipalities are practically dependent on the money provided by the country. Given that municipalities are the key engine of progress in the country and the improvement of standards for citizens, it seems logical for this National Assembly to support institutions that operate. It is also difficult to understand that the congregations received more money in times of difficulty, perhaps two or three years ago, at least after statistics. This is simply difficult to understand and, as a result, we can make a very simple conclusion. It is that, on such a soft principle, congregations are simply trying to be abolished. If they cannot carry out their duties if they cannot offer what they were set up to do, what would they have them for? And it's not about not knowing what the increase is. I think that this amount proposed by the NSI and SDS Group is one that would not significantly jeopardise our public finances. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that it is not far from what has been said that the Ministry of Finance and all these negotiating groups are close to the municipalities, so it is not very far apart, but it is very far from what the municipalities have calculated in order to need to carry out their tasks normally. That's a long way from here. And if the congregations are going towards the country in that almost 100 euros per head are willing to give up on their tasks, then I think that the country and this national assembly must make this effort and approach them in this direction. From this, if we support this thing, all citizens will have much right.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u335	Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u336	First, make an apology to Desus. Desus has mayors, too. I'm truly sorry. We will vote against these two amendments, despite the fact that we have 20 mayors and I know that these mayors are probably angry with the parliamentary group now. But I'll say one thing. One is the average, which is very important for 210 municipalities, and the other is for urban municipalities with special tasks, including Article 54, where there is no amendment, because the municipalities that are more self-sufficient, where they receive more income, will also have government or the state will now take that income. And I don't think that's right. Like you said when you accept a budget, when you weigh everything you have to do, you take responsibility and sometimes you have to eat some dumplings. But I would have appealed to the government. We had one chance this year, and we didn't do it, we have to do it a little bit, we haven't found those savings in the congregations that we could find in the assignments. We didn't. We stopped halfway there. As tomorrow is a new day, it is necessary to start with the congregations tomorrow, sit down at the negotiating table, listen to the congregations where they see where they can really save themselves by changing some legislation, making some of the meaningless tasks they are now carrying out, which cost a lot, disappear, and we will find some of these funds that they are lacking in some way. I was in a meeting with the municipalities, I was in the State Council today, I wasn't afraid, I was listening to what the mayors were saying. I was a mayor myself, and I also know the logic of mayors. In a way, I think that today the mayors will draw briefly, which is not good, but the obligation of this coalition must be to sit down with the mayors tomorrow and start looking for where the country can help with legislation to save the mayors in order to get that difference. It's a warrant from that coalition. And as long as the Social Democrats are members of this coalition, we will keep this in mind and also help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u337	The explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u338	Thank you for your word. The government has been practically trying to reach a compromise with the municipalities that has such a formula. First, the government reduces the budgetary funding of the municipalities and then the municipalities relieve some of the legal obligations so that they can reduce their costs. But this time it is practically clear to everyone that the mass of averages is going to fall significantly more than the financial obligations of the municipalities are going to fall. But no one asks, whose shoulders are saved here, because the money we spend on municipalities is not given to the mayors, the money goes to the population, to the citizens, to the citizens. In the United Left, we will always stress social functions, so I will once again remind the beneficiaries of the subsidisation of the market rents left behind by both the Government and the Community in the spring. On April 1st, a subsidy was abolished for those beneficiaries of a non-profit lease which the congregation did not provide for renting a non-profit apartment and were forced into a much more expensive lease. It should also be noted that the congregations are the founders of health homes. By cutting funds, we know what's gonna happen. Even less investment in infrastructure, poor access to health care at this primary level and, above all, poorer provision of this service in older citizens. This is the last time I'm going to say that there is an alternative and we've also shown where those gaps are, where we could find this money for the congregations. The first essential source of community income is income. If we look at European comparisons, we see that we are 27 out of 28 Member States after we have collected income from capital incomes. It is said that from income on capital income we collect so little that we are in the last place in the European Union. If only we could get closer to European standards here, we could quickly raise some money in this two-year horizon for this purpose. The second is the reduction in the 4th income class limit, which we have proposed to reduce from 71 000 to 38 000, which would be comparable to GDP for Europe. And there could be more money here quickly for these purposes. However, we cannot assume responsibility for saving in the congregations, especially not in the citizens, because it is not clear where, how much and when it will be cut at all. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u339	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 53. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 28 of whom were voted against and 52. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 53. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Given that you have not supported the previous proposal, you still have the opportunity to increase the so-called average to exactly what the government has offered the municipalities – EUR 525. It is said that this government agrees with this amount. And not only does she agree, obviously, if she put it on the table, it's financial. That is why I am really interested in the reason why the ruling coalition will not support this. Supports the government, supports the minister, perhaps not this amendment, but concrete, such an amount has been given to the municipalities at the table – EUR 525. So we were told, Your Honor, that this was your proposal. And once again, this means that you agree with this amount and that this amount comes out publicly with the budgets you have adopted. Otherwise, I do not know how the government could offer this to the congregations. So you can. Do not feel sorry for yourself and weep as you would like to give to the congregations, but you cannot. Yes. Once again, this was your proposal and you have the opportunity and the opportunity to go from words to actions. We will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u341	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 53. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 73. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 73 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The draft law is not in line with the adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the Government has therefore prepared a harmonisation amendment to the 47th Article, which you received on e-club, pursuant to Article 164(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Would you like to speak to the government, Minister of Finance, about the harmonisation amendment? He doesn't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. We are talking about a new amendment with which we will increase the country’s debt or debt by a little over 50 million. What I would expect first from the government or the minister is to give reasons why we will be in debt for 50 million more. Which, in other words, means saying simply what will be what will increase this debt. Let me ask you something else, given that I have some time. Will we be in debt for this more because these funds will be earmarked for migrants who will come to Slovenia, who will go through Slovenia, who will remain in Slovenia? What's the reason? We know, and we have also heard in the explanation of the budget that 123 million are allocated to migrants in this state budget for 2016. This is considered by the Commission to be insufficient to monitor anti-intelligence services. This is also said by people who are familiar with police matters, who know the state of the police, who know the state of the defence. After all, the commander - in - chief of the armed forces said a few days ago that the defensive ability was weak or that it had never been so weak. And now, Your Honor, why don't you tell us why we're going to be in further debt? For this debt means, of course, the debt of future generations. Please let the government and the coalition say that this government is also the proponent of this amendment, what awaits future generations and who will they pay and why they will pay these interest rates also from those debts that will occur here. This is not just about the harmonisation amendment, this is actually about the content, the extent of the debt is changing. I certainly think it is responsible for future generations to repay these debts to know what is now the fundamental reason for us to accept or not to accept this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u343	He's got the word "magic" first. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u344	Thank you very much. We will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group. I appeal, however, to the Minister-in-Office, if we can charge ourselves with EUR 50 million to solve the problems of refugees and migrants, that the government will immediately find the necessary 90 million required by police officers to solve matters on the ground. And not that Prime Minister Cerar publicly says it's a disgrace. It's a shame. Just for him, for the government and for that coalition, not for the cops. And if 50 million can be explained to the committee that due to the refugee and migrant crisis, it is necessary to increase the debt by 50 million, while the rest will be obtained from Europe, and it cannot and cannot be a problem to find the necessary resources for police to get what they need.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u345	Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Since I was invited, yes, 50 million is foreseen for the costs of migration flows and 11 million, an additional 1% for investment transfer, a return for municipalities, totaling 61 million. In this context, we expect 73 million to receive funding from the European Union for the costs of migration flows, as you said, but 50 million will have to be additionally indebted, which will be an additional deficit. In this context, there are also labour costs, i.e. labour costs for all those who will participate. It's called police, defense, customs, health personnel and so on. This amount also provides for all of these additional activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u347	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u348	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday, however, we discussed the day before yesterday and today we voted on the amendments to the budget. The Minister said in his opening remarks when he spoke about our amendments to the budget, and he called on the National Assembly, asked for caution in adopting these amendments to the budgets, as most of them could constitute a violation of the constitutional fiscal rule and constitute a significant deviation from the planned path of public financial consolidation. The amendments to the budgets we tabled had to be balanced, within the same part of the budget they could only be redistributed between the budget lines. So instead of spending, we were able to allocate funds for another use. And our amendments, it is said, all the opposition amendments for 2016 and 2017 were assessed as a departure from the planned path of public financial consolidation. We have not yet finished well with the vote on the budgets charged with this mortgage, and the Minister of Finance with the Government's amendment on additional debt will come. So, Mr Minister, this is what it means to deviate from the path of fiscal consolidation. This is what it means to add an additional one to the budget in one way or another, if you owe so much to it. And now I ask how you plan these financial policies and evaluate the proposals proposed by members of the opposition because they need to be balanced, that is to say, the President of the National Assembly probably rejects any amendment if it is not harmonised and written in accordance with the rules, our amendments must not increase the deficit, they must not take on certain items relating to EU funding, and there are some restrictions. Here the government comes practically with a proposal that will undermine its position at one point earlier. This seems completely uncreditable to me, as the government proposes with this amendment in the law on the implementation of the budget. Completely uncreditable. And it completely deviates from the paradigm that applies to our amendments to the National Assembly. If the Minister or the Government does so, then this document, which you have previously adopted, which was so enthusiastically spoken of by fellow Member Simon Kustec Lipicer, has no weight and no value. Mr Minister, I propose that you, for your statements, be subject to the same rules as our Members of the opposition in particular. It's completely inappropriate for you to do what you do. You are discrediting our proposals, but they must be balanced by the definition that our proposals constitute a violation of the constitutional fiscal rule, which is not true because they need to be balanced and depend entirely on the Government's proposal. Here comes the government with a proposal that represents a significant deterioration on the debt side and, as a result, probably also on the side of that part of the budget that shows a deficit. I would kindly ask, for the first time, that the government is principled, for the second time, also to explain why, in twenty minutes, the rules that are in force in the National Assembly and are being violated by the government itself change in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u349	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'll give you my word first and then the mag. Alenki Brother. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. In fact, the harmonisation amendment merely aligns the figures in the general part of the budget with the figures in the ZIPRS. As to how this affects the budget and structural deficit, and as it is a very likely definition of one-off expenditure, this does not affect. 50 million does not affect the structural deficit, but an additional 11 million are for the municipalities, but they are reimbursements that will not affect the structural deficit. But this has already been accepted by the budget, it is only a reconciliation of two figures in general work and ZIPRS. That would be my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u351	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u352	Thank you very much. According to the ministers, I would like to make it clear how many of these additional 50 million, if I leave those investment funds for the municipality, are intended for the police requirements on the table. I know that in the framework of 123 million there are also labour costs for police officers, customs officers, soldiers and so on, but how much of this is intended to cover the demands of police officers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u353	I see there's still an interest in the debate, which is why I'm going to ask you to apply. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u354	Thank you very much. In addition to the question raised by my colleague Bratušek and I am also interested, I am also interested in how much of the 50 million money for the so-called migration and refugee crisis is intended for several migrants, some tens, several hundred or several thousand migrants, to remain permanently in Slovenia. Is this already on? There are various numbers to be accepted by Slovenia in public. They're talking about 30,000. They're talking about 50,000. You yourself have mentioned that the costs for one migrant will be around € 10,000 per year for one person. Is this part already included because otherwise this money is actually too small? But if this part is already included, of course we are interested in what this 50 million additional debt includes. How much is it for police equipment, how much for military equipment, how much is it for anti-intelligence services, which probably also need some extra equipment or maybe some extra employment, given the latest situation in Europe? How much is it for different logistics? How will this money be spent by budget users if you want? Here I think the cut must be made because this number is also completely exact to the last euro. We may be here now before some new issue of this budget. Does the Minister of Finance estimate that this money is enough? Is it enough for the whole year 2016? For I say that the budget is not properly planned, that expenditure is not properly redistributed among budgetary users, that it does not have a strategy and a vision. However, it does not exist either in the economic, social, school or defence fields or in the security field. And unfortunately, people are most concerned about this security area today because of the circumstances, if I quote what we're in today. And this budget shall be adopted in the light of the circumstances in which we are. In this regard, I am also interested in the assessment of these circumstances by the Minister or the Government in view of such an obligation and in view of such expenditure as is planned for these purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u355	I would like to remind you once again that we know what we are discussing. We are discussing the harmonisation amendment between something that has already been adopted and that law that ensures the implementation of this budget. We're not opening that debate we've had for three days. The harmonisation amendment is one that must be reconciled between one matter that we have adopted and that law where it is not. Anyway, please, let's focus on this. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u356	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr President, I think the Minister can defend his proposal for an amendment, a harmonisation amendment that he has brought to the National Assembly. He does not need any lawyer in the form of the President of the National Assembly or the chairman of the meeting. Colleagues only requested a precise specification for the EUR 61 million coming to the National Assembly for this proposal. If I understand correctly, they demand it. However, in the introduction, I said that I would like to clarify further what was involved in the amendments that we have tabled and have been characterized as an infringement, that most of these amendments constitute a violation of the fiscal rule and a significant deviation from the established path of fiscal consolidation. And none of these amendments increased any expense. No deviation from what the government has written in its budget. This proposal proposed by the Government, however, means a derogation from that rule that the Minister of Finance said at the beginning of the meeting on Monday. Ecclagenally, if the change for plus 61 million is in the form of an additional debt, that means a departure from And we want, for the first time, to explain exactly why this was used to argue the rejection of the amendments that we have tabled. [[…]] And secondly, for those 61 million you want, there's not exactly any specification for which this is going to work. That's some lump sum. The government obviously must have this now, because that's the sum of something. The sum of some cost items that are likely to happen and write for this purpose so much, for another purpose so much, for a third purpose so much, together so much. And that's it. And perhaps, Mr President of the National Assembly, it is a minimum standard for the Government to say what it has put together to get it out. And to say why, in cases where we have invested something and did not deviate from what the Government has submitted in the balance, it has been said that it violates the fiscal rule and the fiscal consolidation. But for what it actually is, the Minister for Finance doesn't have this blockade. We'd like a simple explanation. We have time for you to explain this, I'm sure it'll be about two hours. We can wait a little longer, no problem, just tell us what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u357	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on to the decision-making process. Who wants to discuss it? [[…]] I didn't see you. When I gave it to open, no one checked in. Now you're dripping so slowly. All right, all right, go ahead and sign in. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u358	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would only like to explain one explanation from the finance minister who is present today. What is the purpose of this harmonisation amendment? As we have seen, not a single amendment to the 2016 budget has been adopted, not one amendment has been adopted to the 2017 budget – why has the Government suddenly brought the harmonisation amendment? What changed in the meantime, as we discussed on the financial home committee last Friday, which we had a hearing here in the National Assembly and today was not voted on by any amendment not in the budget of 2016, but in the budget of 2017? Can you explain why the harmonisation amendment is now needed? You said that this was a harmonisation amendment to align the budgets for 2016 and 2017 with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u359	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's a pain in the ass, but if the government has found that it needs an additional debt authority and that it came with an amount, then it's probably quite common for this amount to be justified. It seems irresponsible to me that no government representative, including the Minister, would argue this amount and say anything about it, except that it is necessary to do so. Look, the specification for this 61 million is probably necessary. We who have tabled amendments to the budget or wherever we invest them must make some good explanation for this. The government that has the apparatus, the structure, is probably particularly committed to doing so. If the Government cannot argue this 61 million additional debt, then I suggest that you suspend the meeting in half an hour and that the Government acquires this information and tells us. Secondly, the procedural issue, Mr President, about the Government's harmonisation amendment should probably be decided or given an opinion by the working body, the Committee on Finance is saying. The act is an integral part of the budget and now, I don't know, the procedure should probably run out, at least as stated in Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If, when we have tabled amendments to certain acts, some laws which form an integral part of the budget have been rejected by some artificial procedural explanation, then follow also the rules applicable to the Government. Thus, the Government should provide the National Assembly with information or specification on what this refers to and what this will be used for. This is practically an integral part of each budget item if you look at the budget, each item, and say whether you will refer to a working body that will give an opinion on this constituent work of the budget. This is part of the budgetary implementation process mechanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u361	Now I'm going to explain it to everyone. In fact, this harmonisation amendment is adopted on the basis of Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, which states very clearly: "The law on the implementation of the budget must be in line with the state budget adopted." We have already adopted the state budget. If the proposed law is not in line with the adopted state budget, the Government must propose a harmonisation amendment to the draft law on the implementation of the budget. This is what we're doing right now. However, it is consistent if this case is not accepted. If the harmonisation amendment is not adopted, the State budget shall be deemed not to have been adopted. And that's a great consistency. In order not to drag this debate forward, I propose, on the basis of Article 67, paragraph 5, that the same issue may therefore be discussed at this point only once at a time. Five minutes. This procedural decision shall be put to the vote. There is no debate about him. So it's a procedural decision. Here's just a vote. We are voting on a procedural decision to limit it once to a five-minute discussion of each. From here on out. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 80 were present and 52 voted against in favour of the procedural decision. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 26.]] So the decision is taken. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Yeah. Then you'll check in. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u362	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand your efforts to bring this by some minimum standards through the National Assembly procedure. But above all, I would expect you to invite the ministers and the government to submit what belongs to this proposal of the harmonisation amendment. Thus, a developed specification for these €61 million. I don't know why you're trying so hard not to talk to Members in the National Assembly, but don't do anything completely to ask the Government what we're proposing. And I find it kind of humiliating what you're doing. The Minister is sitting here, he's been gone for three days, he's sitting here, and now that we're expecting him to argue about this, he won't answer. And you're defending the government and the coalition in a way that prevents debate and you don't even call the minister to answer that. This, President, is not right. The government has arrived at the National Assembly, apparently having the opportunity to speak today only under this harmonisation amendment, and does not speak here. I don't think that's good. And it is probably not good for the Slovenian public, too, if the Minister of Finance cannot explain why he will need €61 million in additional debt. For what purpose? Secondly, Mr President, I would suggest that you change the procedural decision slightly, that any Member may or should speak only once, but for five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u363	Let me rephrase, given that you've made a procedural call. We have already adopted a budget that foresees this. The substantive debate on the millions you are talking about has already been held two days ago. And now you want to reopen it at a point where you just have to reconcile something that has already been adopted with this law. It has been found that these two laws are not harmonised and must be harmonised, because otherwise the state budget is not fully adopted. And we're at this point. We had a substantive debate on what this will be spent on when we adopted or decided on the draft budget for 2016. And this one was already done. Of course, the procedural decision is valid and is so much more binding when it is adopted by the entire National Assembly, and there is no idea that it can be changed in any way. Now I'm asking who wants the word. Please sign up. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u364	Thank you, President. Look, I don't know if that's what you just said. You said they weren't consistent. Two days ago, when the Prime Minister spoke here, he said that he had prepared two difficult budgets. You prepared them — how long? Six months, three months? You've worked so hard. Then you found out on the day that we confirmed the budget that it was found that they were not harmonised. Are you listening? Can you imagine the confidence in legal certainty and the good work that this government has instilled in taxpayers? However, I would now like to hear from the Minister of Finance, if that is true of what you said. That on the last day when the budget has already been adopted after months of preparation, you have found that the matter is uncoordinated, and for the fighters, I do not know, in your opinion, 61 million. Among other things, this is for 167 years of high wages by the former DUTB CEO. That's how much you didn't get along for. I'd like to know if the Minister of Finance shares an opinion with you. I think taxpayers deserve to know how you could have calculated 61 million euros in government. 61 million euros is a lot of money. That's two-thirds of what the cops want. This is seven times as much as it would have been enough for students or students in deficit schools to be provided with some normal schooling, that they do not have to stand in line, that they arrive immediately at nine o’clock in the morning, and that they get that scholarship they have. That's a lot of money. Those 61 million can solve a lot of tragic stories. And now you're saying that, uh, you found out that they weren't consistent. So I ask you to listen, if not to the voice of the coalition, which is talking and waiting for this session to end, but to the voice of the opposition, to the voice of the people who want to know how this government will invest in the next two years and next year in the money it will collect from their pockets. Please, Minister of Finance, explain this amendment a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u365	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u366	Thanks again. I asked the Minister of Finance myself. Since this is a serious matter, I would like an answer. The minister himself put the salaries of the police and the costs of his work on the table. I think I know what the answer is, but I'd like to hear it from his mouth. What's going on right now is a police statement, and I don't think it's like that in this situation. You should take it a little more seriously than you're doing right now. So I repeat the question: how many of these 50 million are intended for the demands of the police officers for whom they strike? The law on the implementation of the budget specifies the possible scope of the debt. That is why, Madam President, it is quite substantive to ask what this money will be for. It's not like that. And one more thing. I was on the Committee on Finance and it was said that the debt would increase by 50 million due to the refugee crisis and not by 61. There's something else in there. Unfortunately, 50 is something other than 61. And we probably have not only the right, but also the duty to ask. But if 61 million is nothing, as you now say, if you keep quiet and vote, that's what your pressures on us at the moment look like, I hope you find 90 million for the police today and not tomorrow. And let the Minister of Finance explain certain things. Even if everyone can only discuss once, honourable President, you will not achieve your purpose. I think that Parliament is meant to talk and get answers. If the coalition is voting just like that, your procedural proposal was good for at least one reason. There was peace, silence, because they had to sit in the bench and vote. Otherwise, I can tell you that it's virtually impossible to follow the meeting back here. And no warning. You only warn those who are not yours, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u367	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u368	Good evening, even for me. Document with date 2. 11. 2015 coming to this National Assembly. When it was said earlier, where does this money go: accounts 230102 Reserve for migration costs, 123 million. And on the other hand, Local Development Infrastructure 11 million, Account 060301. If we didn't know where that money was meant to go, I don't think it was. This document was made available before the meeting of the Committee and the actual meeting of the Committee would not have been if we had not had these documents. This has also been explained several times. It was also explained why this harmonisation amendment is here on the table. If we talk about confirming or supporting this harmonisation amendment, which is not a substantive amendment, but a harmonisation amendment, technically, is called an accounting one, it will get my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u369	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u370	Thank you very much. First of all, I must thank my colleague Tiln Bozic for reading for the 11 million from the budget, which is what the budget actually says. Probably another item is in the budget of those 50 million, so these things are obviously clear. We're here asking the Minister of Finance what this is about. We're also asking him to let people know why it's from him. I believe you know that and that you helped the Minister of Finance, but we're asking the Minister of Finance. And we ask him very precisely what this is really about. This isn't about the content harmonisation amendment. This is about an increase in debt. And the increase in debt will be brought into line in the law on budget implementation. That's, yeah, the accounting part. But behind this accounting is the content. However, the content means that Slovenia will be more obliged to rely on lending capital, to pay more interest for this and to spend it for something. And I ask again what she will spend them for in the context of the so-called refugee migration crisis. I asked, in fact, whether it would be spent on a certain number of migrants and how many of them could be here. How many will that be? There are different numbers in public. I said 30,000, 50 grand, the minister said how much money is needed for one person. I expect these answers because it is simple, honourable President, even what you say, look, this is about harmonisation – this is about 60 million. I don't care if they coordinate in any way or in any other way. This is not just legal and accounting formal. This is about content. And if we've talked about this once, okay, we're probably going to be ten more times, because we don't care about taxpayers' money and we're going to charge future generations the payment of these annuityes and the payment of interest on this debt. We don't care. If the others don't care, fine. It's their responsibility. We and I don't care, and for that I would really like an answer on the specification of this. And also whether or not it will be the salaries of the police officers who strike today. I will not repeat the statements made by the President of the Government, what this really means and what it is like for those policemen who are speaking today. But I can tell you that three weeks ago, I met some of these police officers in Brežice. And they worked and they were on their feet for 21 hours. And all thanks to them! And they deserve bigger wages. And they deserve better equipment. Today you play with these things here to say, but this is just a little bit of coordination, for those policemen who are standing at the border today in Brežice, Dobova, etc., this is not a harmonisation amendment. It's completely different. I hope you're aware of what we're talking about. In today’s situation or as you say in the circumstances in which we are. And these circumstances are not the most agreeable, and these circumstances are not safe. That's why I'd like to ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u371	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 47. Before voting, I would like to point out that if the harmonisation amendment is not adopted, it is not considered to be accepted under Article 164(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 27. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm breaking up. The explanation for the voice is obvious. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u372	Thank you very much, President. Today it is really not possible for this meeting to take any recommendation, position, proposal from the opposition into account by the coalition. All those who will or who are studying and interested in political science will be able to see that it has rarely happened in the National Assembly, that the coalition has not accepted any amendment of the opposition. Some say that even never better observers. This certainly means the coalition's relationship to the opposition. In one word, arrogant. And in other words, there are words, there are actions. It is not only necessary for the opposition to cooperate, but for the opposition to be allowed proposals that are better than the coalition to be accepted and confirmed. It's state-of-the-art, because these proposals are for people. They're not for the coalition, they're not for the state, they're not for one coalition party or another, they're for the people. Today, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals were for people, most of them. And they were all rejected. You could choose one, you could choose two, and probably the explanation for the vote would be different, and you would believe that it could be done. Not only with words, but also with actions. Unfortunately, the situation is the way it is. Of course, you also take responsibility for this responsibility, including for all these proposals that you have not accepted. I'm glad you agree with that. And when it has to be taken over, I will also invite you to actually accept it. But I will not support this marriage. Nor is it because there is no coalition in a position to negotiate with the municipalities. And the fact that she will continue to negotiate and so forth, I apologize, is again just words. I heard the secretary of state or minister talking about nights, days, weeks and so on, and they didn't agree. But we need an effect, we need a result, we need an agreement. And this coalition doesn't seem to be capable of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u373	Any other explanation for the voice? Yeah. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, Mr. Minister! The New Slovenia Group will vote against this law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. We regret, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, that in some way you have rejected just all the amendments of New Slovenia and, of course, of other opposition parliamentary groups, in fact pulled the barbed wire between us. I'm really sorry. But well, we will not be offended, no problem, but be aware that absolute responsibility is on your part. For the next two years, there is absolute responsibility on your part. It is true that the media will report tomorrow that the National Assembly adopted the 2016 and 2017 budgets. That's right. That's all true, but it should still be a subtitle, with absolute responsibility solely to the coalition. It is not a good practice for you to take such a practice. We talked about cases of good practice under the 2004-2008 mandate, when we also supported the opposition amendments. And also in 2012. I think it was some 16 million-dollar opposition amendment we supported. And somehow, with a hand in hand, we have adopted budget documents that are, in fact, crucial. We will also oppose this because unfortunately we do not see in these documents some of the reform ambitions of this coalition and this government. That's why we're going to stagnate, so we're going to go back because stagnation means stagnation. Economic growth is therefore positive, quite high, because we actually have good economists who are struggling despite a poor business environment. However, I am concerned if the scenario is such that the economies to which we export most will cool down. For example, Germany. Actually, we're already recording the cooling down there. I hope that this trend will not continue. Then what's it gonna be? We regret that there was no more cooperation. At least minimal attention would be expected from you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, to the opposition's amendments. At least there's a minimum amount of attention. But, okay, the absolute responsibility is on your side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u375	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 32. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Public Procurement Act. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 25. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 38. At the end of the day, this is a preliminary proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States on one side and Iceland on the other side concerning the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its member states and Iceland on the other side of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 42. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under a) we are moving on to a motion for the election of three candidates for a judge or a judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, is, on the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts by letter dated 9. 11. 2015 The proposal for the election of three candidates for a judge or judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg was forwarded to the Assembly. The President of the Republic decided to propose four candidates for three candidates and candidates for a judge at the said Court of the National Assembly: mag. Nino Betetto, Dr. Mark Bosnjak, d.o.b. Klemna Jaklič and Dr. Nino Peršak. To further explain the proposal for election, I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u376	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The European Court of Human Rights is the highest level in deciding on human rights violations in Europe. He is one of the most important bodies of the Council of Europe. Due to the exceptional importance of the Court and the high criteria to be met by the national candidate lists for the post of Judge of that Court, the call for candidates for that City has been repeated twice. How sensitive this topic is, the information shows that the invitation to tender for the current judge from Slovenia was repeated nine times in 2007. This time, the President of the Republic, by the Ministry of Justice, received a list of eight candidates and seven candidates. We estimate that the proposed 15 candidates provide quality and all the criteria for an appropriate selection of candidates and candidates for the European Court of Human Rights. In their opinions on the proposed candidates, the Government and the Council of Justice have assessed that the criteria for the exercise of this function meet more than three candidates, as far as Slovenia is proposing for the final election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On the basis of the provisions of the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, which allow them to propose several candidates as necessary, on the basis of the opinions of the Council of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and after extensive consultations with the heads of the Parliament's parliamentary groups, the President decided to propose to the National Assembly 4 candidates for 3 candidates and candidates for judges at the European Court of Human Rights, following the following alphabetical order: Mag. Nino Bettto, Chief Justice and Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia; Dr. Mark Bosnjak’s extraordinary professor, lawyer at the Bar Association of Čeferin and the Extraordinary Professor and Head of the Department of Criminal Law at the European Faculty of Law in Novi Gorica; ddr. Klemen Jaklič, a scientific researcher and lecturer at the Harvard University Centre for European Studies; and Professor Dr. Nino Peršak, a research professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Gent. With a more detailed explanation of the candidates of each of the proposed candidates, you are already Members and Members aware of the transmission of written opinions, so allow only a few additional remarks and highlights. Taking into account the criteria laid down by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the guidelines of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the selection of candidates for this place and taking into account the opinions of the Government and the Council of Justice, it can be concluded that the proposed candidates are established legal experts recognised in the general public both at home and abroad. They perform a number of functions in various domestic and international institutions. With their work and experience so far, they meet the expectations of a good knowledge of both the national legal system and public international law and have practical experience in the field of law. With all reasonableness, it can be expected that in the event of an election they will perform this function with a high degree of professional and personal integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The President of the Republic consulted thoroughly on possible candidates and candidates with all the Heads of the Parliamentary Groups. Never before have the consultations been so different, and in some cases they are contrary to the expectations and views of individual candidates. The President of the Republic has thus drawn up this proposal of four candidates on the basis of several consultations with the parliamentary groups. This proposal allows the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members to select three candidates with convincing majority support. The President of the Republic therefore proposes to the National Assembly to elect three candidates and candidates for a judge or judge in the European Court of Human Rights from among the four candidates and candidates mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u377	Thank you very much. The proposal for election was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u378	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary-General, colleague and colleague! On the basis of Article 4 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, a call for the seat of a judge or judge in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg was issued. In the selection process, the Council of Justice and the Government forwarded to the President of the Republic a list of candidates and candidates for whom both institutions have assessed that they are most suitable for the performance of this function. The President of the Republic, as the Secretary-General has already said, then forwarded to the National Assembly the proposal of four candidates and candidates for the post of Judge or Judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The task of the National Assembly today is to elect three of the proposed candidates in a secret vote, who it assesses that they could do the best of this function and that they would also be proud of the Republic of Slovenia. Judges shall be elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the basis of the lists submitted by each country. The term of office of the judge shall be nine years and without the possibility of renewal or re-election. We believe in the Group of Social Democrats that the best candidates have been elected from among the applicants. However, today, in the position of the Group of Members, I will not favour individual names. I also believe, because of all the statements made these days, that it is not appropriate for today's voted candidates on their way to the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to have a political backpack that does not come to this function. In view of the knowledge and competences of all four of the names of which we will choose, we believe that a candidate or candidate who will be elected or elected as a judge of the European Court of Human Rights will perform his work in an excellent manner as the current judge and, above all, as I have already said, with the pride of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u379	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u380	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are electing three candidates as Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. Three candidates you should have picked months ago. In the United Left, we can't find an ideal candidate on the list. We do not find a candidate who would actually also be a human rights fighter, someone who not only wrote and thought about human rights, but also actively stood up for them. On the list, we'd like to see someone who's already made human rights decisions. Not only did he decide about them. We would like to see someone who took a stand for human rights even when he was possibly overvoted and clearly explained his position in a separate opinion. Someone who can resist strict formalism and can step outside of strictly formalistic legal frameworks. There's no such candidate on the list, unfortunately. Among them there is not one of the former constitutional judges who would be most suitable for this function. The fact is that the European Court of Human Rights is the last and highest defender of human rights. If the Constitutional Court is the one who can make a point on an individual case in Slovenia, the European Court of Human Rights is the only one who can make a call from this point. The European Court of Human Rights is one that has clearly stood up for the rights of deleted persons. The European Court of Human Rights is one that has clearly set itself up for the rights of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank. It is one that reminds us again every year of the unsustainable conditions in prisons and the anomalies of the Slovenian judicial system. So it is that court that ensures that our Constitutional Court is not only a starry sky but also a moral law that should be in each individual. It is therefore an important function for which the most suitable candidate would likely be one of the types of constitutional judges. To be an important function, it is also evident from all the pressure coming from the public in the form of calls, proposals and recommendations. All these pressures are concentrated mainly around one candidate, but for the United Left it is totally unacceptable. Yesterday, the current Slovenian judge at the European Court of Human Rights wrote that it would be that there would be no ddr on the list to be sent to Strasbourg. Klemna Jakliča, a well-deserved international scandal. We cannot agree with this statement. It would be unacceptable for us to have his name on the list. Why? The call for candidates for judges of the European Court of Human Rights has been repeated three times. In doing so, it was only in the third repetition that he fulfilled the formal conditions for the application. In the first two cases, he was too young. It already casts a shadow of doubt on the whole process. As he likes to point out in this house, the right hand of the judge is already an important form of impartiality. What does a candidate who participates in months of pressure against the judiciary and in front of a court-martial address protestors make? What is the appearance of a candidate who has so far taken a stand for the rights of one individual? Regardless of the length and number of doctorates, such a candidate is totally unacceptable to us. Therefore, in the United Left, we do not see an ideal candidate on the list, among them we do not see a true human rights defender with unwavering and clear views and not a candidate who can step aside from a narrow formalistic framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u381	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u382	Your Honor! We have an important decision before us today because we will elect a candidate for a judge or a judge in the European Court of Human Rights. It is an institution established in 1959 to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of both individuals and legal persons established by the European Convention on Human Rights. In particular, the Convention protects the right to life, the spider to a fair trial, the right to respect family and private life, freedom of expression, freedom of conscience, thought and religion and the protection of property. The range of possible complainants is therefore very broad. In addition to the 800 million inhabitants of the enlarged Europe and third-country nationals who reside or cross it, we still have millions of societies, institutions, political parties, businesses. For many years, the Court has been burdened by complaints from individuals for various factors. By the end of 2010, 130 000 were waiting for rescue. The vast majority of these complaints, more than 95 %, are rejected without being dealt with by content, as they do not meet one of the eligibility criteria set out in the Convention. This raises problems as the court has to respond to every complaint, but within a reasonable period of time, it cannot deal with matters that deserve to be dealt with by content. On the other hand, several tens of thousands of complainants are denied a claim after several years of waiting. The Court shall consist of as many judges as the States Parties. However, their term of office lasts nine years and cannot be repeated. So we have a third choice ahead of us since we have a country of our own. The National Assembly will decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who has sent a proposal to four suitable candidates, of which no more than three are elected. Although the final decision of the Slovenian judges will belong to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the list of three candidates to be sent to the National Assembly. Given that the President's proposal contains the name of only one candidate supported by the Christian Democrats, we have decided to support only one candidate, that is, ddr. Klemna Jaklièa. In New Slovenia, we believe that the candidate has undisputed international experience in the field of human rights law and knowledge, especially in the context of the operation of the so-called Venice Commission within the Council of Europe. Due to the personal competences that reflect the courage, the commitment to human dignity, irrespective of the criticism, we believe that the proposed candidate is suitable for a judge, and that is why we will support the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u383	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, Vice President, nice greeting to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, colleague and colleague! In the framework of the powers vested in us in this particular process, we have taken note of the views, opinions, assessments made by representatives or members of the Council of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and finally the President of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know at the beginning of this process, we have expressed our view that we will vote in a single voice because we are aware of the importance of ensuring that we can safely help to forward three candidates to this institution. Because of the many pressures that have been attributed through the media during this time, or tried to attribute mainly to our parliamentary group, and also to distort the image of candidates and candidates in this process, we have finally taken a decision in the Group of the Modern Centre Party today. This decision is to vote on our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u385	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u386	Thank you so much for saying that. We now have a third attempt to elect three candidates to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In our interview with the President of the Republic, we gave support to three candidates, two of which are also proposed. We have also proposed to the President of the Republic that a list of three candidates be placed in the National Assembly proceedings. The President has made a different decision and thus takes a certain risk, both in relation to the procedure in the National Assembly and at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. When we look at the nominations of the four persons proposed by the President and decided upon, on our proposal, all the parliamentary groups have received this, we can see that the summaries prepared by the Council of Justice and also by the Government on the proposed candidates have been extremely modest. If we decide and look at only these opinions that we have received, the candidates are quite equivalent because of the one or two paragraphs written by all, regardless of the scope of the proposal. However, when we looked at these original nominations, it was already apparent that there were large differences between candidates, both in scope and in terms of the content of the academic and professional work so far. It appears from the material that it is professional in the field of human rights, it is said that only one candidate dealt with an area which is judged by the European Court of Human Rights and also under European Union law. That's ddr. Klemen Jaklich. This is evidenced by the extensive material attached to the application. This is confirmed by the evidence and, last but not least, by the recommendations of professors from foreign universities, from Oxford and Harvard, who also monitored his work or cooperated with him in the projects. Ddr. Jaklič was the only candidate who, as a public expert, responded as an expert, highlighted and commented on judicial and political proceedings in the most resilient process in recent years, this is in the process against Janez Janša, and in fact the only one of these candidates who has recognized human rights violations in these proceedings and has publicly substantiated these views. Later, the Constitutional Court unanimously ruled that the above-mentioned human rights infringement proceedings, including the principle of legality, had taken place. Such an approach gives hope that the European Court of Human Rights would also be critically represented by such positions that represent the protection of European citizens, namely the protection of its human rights against accidental or deliberate decisions of institutions at European level against persons. The Slovenian policy, which will decide and choose today, should overcome so much political wisdom and intelligence that it would offer a recognised human rights expert at least the possibility that, as one of the three proposed in the next procedures at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, he would fight for election. The support of the candidates was also expressed by the Academic Society Pravnik and exclusively the previous Slovenian judge at the European Court of Human Rights, Dr Boštjan M. Zupančič. The latter can be considered to be a top expert in the field of human rights, since, after all, the Slovenian judge has been in this court for many years. None of the other three candidates have such good references and recommendations. And if Dr. Jaklič isn't one of the three candidates who gets support today, it's going to be, like they say, a scandal. A scandal that will echo at home and especially abroad. It can also happen that the proposed Slovenian candidates who will be sent to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will also be rejected. Indeed, it would not be the first country to be able to do so, but would have joined those countries that were not able to carry out the candidate procedures objectively and with due care, but preferred the person most suited to them as a certain candidate. Our position is to support candidates through professional references and not political ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u387	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u388	Vice President, thank you for your word! Nice greeting, everyone in the hall, especially the representative of the President of the Republic. Procedures for the election of three candidates for a judge or judge of the European Court of Human Rights have been under way since last March. Following the previous two tenders, which only one candidate applied for, the President of the Republic, of course, could not draw up a proposal for a candidate list. Now this is the third attempt to elect three candidates from our country, one of whom the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will elect a judge or judge, according to a previous panel of experts of the court. Let me point out here that elected judges do not represent their country, but are members of the court as individuals whose task is primarily to ensure that States respect and ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for their citizens, as well as for everyone within their jurisdiction, regardless of gender, race, nationality, ethnic origin or other circumstances. Decisions on possible violations of human rights and freedoms are extremely important criteria or standards adopted by the court. To illustrate the current issues that virtually all European countries face each day. Is the country violating human rights and freedoms when it keeps 42 migrants in a 70-square-metre housing centre for a short period of time? This is about Turkey. Can the state be punished if it is unable to provide immediate water, warm meals, toilets for refugees? Does the State violate human rights if, among other things, it offers a warm meal containing pig meat to the refugee? Is it a violation if every child does not receive one warm meal a day? Is it a violation if a pensioner with a retirement pension based on 40 years of work does not deserve a decent life? It is true, it is an extremely different situation, but I know that the decisions of the Judges of the European Court of Human Rights are extremely important and have an impact both on individuals and on the conduct of countries. It is precisely because the decisions taken are impartial, professional, objective and, above all, life, that judges must demonstrate a high level of professional competence both in the national legal system and in public international law, a high degree of personal integrity, a high level of impartiality and objectivity, and a moral reputation. According to the assessment of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, all candidates proposed by the President of the Republic meet such criteria. For us too, none of the proposed candidates are so deemed unacceptable. Let me finish. The votes of Members and Members of the Desus Group will be directed at the most competent and morally appropriate candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u389	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the Proposal for the election of three candidates for a judge or judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia as a judge of international courts provides that the National Assembly shall elect the candidate by secret ballot, by a majority of the votes of all Members. In this regard, I would particularly like to point out that the National Assembly elects three candidates for judges at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, of which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will elect one judge of the European Court of Human Rights. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The groups of Members have forwarded proposals to the members of the panel leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Jan Škoberne, Group of Social Democrats, Miha Kordiš, Group of Ambassadors of the United Left, Jernej Vrtovec, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. A member of the Commission will be president. Deputy Secretary-General Jernej Bergoč will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the numbers in front of the names of the candidates for which the vote shall be taken. He's voting for three candidates. Therefore, the message surrounding the figures before all four names of the proposed candidates will be invalid. However, there will be a voice box on which only one or two numbers before the names of the candidates will be surrounded. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled vote shall also be invalid. There is also an invalid voice, from which the Member's will is not clear. However, if there are three or less numbers on the ballot, but the Member's will in the surrounding numbers is not clear, the ballot shall be considered valid, but only in the part where the will is visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, three candidates for which the majority of all Members will vote will be elected, that is 46 or more. If, in the first vote, the three candidates do not receive the required majority, a second vote shall be taken in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts, which shall vote on the number of candidates to be elected. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who will receive the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 21.55 and will continue until 22.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist you in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 22.55 p.m. Mrs. Simona Kustec Lipicer, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I apologize, this will be the first vote of this type for our Group of Members. At first, we didn't understand you clearly. Whether we vote for three candidates, so let's round up three numbers, at the beginning you said two, so please, if you can just give the instructions very clearly once again. In the beginning, you were talking about surrounding two candidates or two names. If you can only please give the instructions again very clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u391	One more time. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the numbers in front of the names of the candidates for which the vote shall be taken. He's voting for three candidates. Understand? I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 22.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u392	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the hearing of the 42nd item on the agenda, which is the proposal for the election of three candidates for a judge or judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the election of three candidates for a judge or judge at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 18 November 2015. 89 ballots were distributed, 89 ballots were delivered, no invalid ballot. 89 ballots were valid. The candidates received the following number of votes: mag. Nina Betetto 56 votes, Dr. Marko Bosnjak 58 votes, ddr. Klemen Jaklič 37 votes, Dr Nina Peršak 55 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members, three candidates for a judge or judge in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg were elected: mag. Nina Bettto, Dr. Marko Bosnjak and Dr. Nina Peršak. I congratulate the elected candidates for a judge or judge in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for Appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Natasha Smrekar to the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mateja Končina Petrnell.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u393	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the meeting of the Commission on Elections, some Members pointed out that they did not think it appropriate for the Council of Justice to present only one candidate, but not the other candidates, who applied for the post of Judge-in-Office, in the proposal. In this regard, I would like to point out in the opening that such a legal regime protects the independence of judges. The independence of the judge is a fundamental condition of an impartial trial, which is essential for citizens' confidence in the rule of law. It is very important that the arrangements for the appointment and discharge of judges and their disciplinary responsibilities are such that they protect judges from undue pressure. Only a handful of European countries have legal arrangements under which judges are loved in Parliament. The European Court of Justice's Consultative Council of the Council of Europe has explicitly pointed out in its opinion that it understands, however, that countries with such arrangements want to give the functioning of the judiciary a direct democratic basis, which is unacceptable if the appointment of judges is in line with narrow political interests, which is particularly dangerous in countries with new democracy, including Slovenia. In particular, they pointed out that if the regime is such that the government has an influence on the appointment of judges, it is necessary to prevent other factors and not objective professional criteria from influencing the decision. In order to avoid the inadmissible influence of political interests in the election of candidates for judicial office, in Article 19 of the Judicial Service Act, the procedure for the election of judges in the Republic of Slovenia is regulated so that the Council of Justice is the one who makes the full choice between the candidates applied for and the National Assembly then proposes only one candidate for election. There can be no way that the National Assembly of the Council of Justice should take over the self-choice of candidates, nor should it carry out checks on the correctness of the choice, since in our view it would inadvertently cut into the balance of the leverage of the principle of the division of power. The proposal before you is prepared in accordance with such arrangements. This is the seat of the Supreme Judge in the Supreme Court administrative department and we propose that the National Assembly appoint the Chief Justice, Ms Natasha Smrekar. Smrekareva's colleague began working as a judge in 1993, first in the main court, and after the reorganisation, she continued her work at the District Court in Domžalah, where she handled enforcement criminal and judicial matters. From 1999 to 2007, she was assigned to the Supreme Court, where she worked in the Criminal and Registration Department and was already well acquainted with the way she worked in the Supreme Court. During the interim period, she became a district judge and was then appointed to the post of Senior Judge at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, where she worked in all sections of this Court. The colleague has made a special effort to develop case law in the area of spatial, environmental and construction legislation and has served as Deputy Head of this Section. Smrekar's colleague comes out of both the quality and the extent of the work she has done. It is particularly characterized by an extremely acute sense of essential legal issues and a very systematic, understandable and concise way of writing decisions. Its over-average quality has also been confirmed by two estimates to meet the conditions for faster progress. This is how the Council of Justice proposes to the National Assembly to appoint a distinguished colleague to the post of supreme judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u394	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u395	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! This is a problem that we have dealt with several times both in the National Assembly and in the Mandate-Election Commission. We have found that the court must only enhance its reputation, and we want to help them. It is crucial, however, that we establish a staff that will be transparent, especially at higher levels, as the current events in Slovenia show. It is that we have finally achieved that the criteria have changed, which is also supported by the Ministry of Justice. In view of the changed criteria, the procedure could be more transparent. The evaluations we receive on the Mandate-Volution Commission are qualitative. When we compare our assessments with each other, we see that quantitative assessments, the right statistical criteria exist, the Council of Justice has them, and they are based on them. What we wanted on the Mandate-Election Commission is to add to the descriptive criteria those criteria, those statistics, what is the success of this judge. Of course, it could also be accompanied by the criteria of those judges who were not chosen. That's not how we choose, I'm stressing it again, but let's just choose. This argument of qualitative data could only support the decision of the Council of Justice. In view of this, transparent procedures would also exist in advance, since judges would know exactly what criteria are taken into account, what criteria have a certain weight and whether it is more worth judging or more worth doing something else, being allocated to other jobs, teaching or attending seminars. Also, given the practice so far, it is not clear how we can compare a judge who has tried and has all the statistics with a judge who does not judge and comes from another job. If this were to be regulated in a transparent manner according to the criteria now in force and supported by the Ministry of Justice, it would be possible to make qualitative and quantitative decisions on the candidates and not have any problems of such a judge at all. Unfortunately, given the current practice, given the lack of statistics, the said judge cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u396	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u397	Dear Mr President, honourable President of the Council of Justice, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The cardinal problem of the Slovenian judiciary is the judiciary itself. First of all, the policy contained in it, which as the legacy of the totalitarian period has been preserved in the stricken old-age mental patterns and in the collective and corporate thinking. In fact, as one form of a parallel deep state, it retains itself mentally, valuesly and visually and fertilizes itself through institutional closure and self-sufficiency. In a normal country with a democratic tradition and a legal culture, this would have positive effects; what already exists would be a real internal, intellectually independent judicial system. Unfortunately, we also maintain what is more than an intellectual, autonomous and independent judiciary. The gradual flow of new personnel into this system has not substantially changed the prevailing corporate thinking. New young people gradually streaming in, though more viewed and educated, have withdrawn and adapted or have had to leave this system. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the new appointment of a senior judge to the top of the Slovenian regular judicial system, represented by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The explanation given to us by the Council of Justice is written on two sides. On the one hand, that candidate graduated from law school, that in 1993 he started a judicial course in the basic court in Ljubljana and then wrote that he had made outstanding progress twice. The contents, i.e. the qualitative part of which the colleague had previously discussed, are essentially described in two articles. In the following sentences, she successfully took over his duties in the course of her post as Deputy Head of the Judicial Department in his absence, to demonstrate appropriate rhetorical skills and that she could even speak a foreign language. See, with such a modest, flat-rate record, on which Members and Members must decide on the candidates who will create the fate of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who will judge on behalf of the people. And those of the people who should make decisions, in fact, hide, can say some of the content of all these candidates. What is important, in my opinion, is that the criteria for the selection of judges, which are the criteria that you yourself have placed on the Court's website in the last month, are the following. First time. The expertise, which, for example, appears to be a broad scope, an appropriate level of expertise in the legal field for which a court seat is written, the ability to connect knowledge from different legal areas, the knowledge of modern computer, information and communication technology. Another time. Effectiveness, which, for example, is shown as the ability to identify priorities, the ability to work in a structured manner, the ability to plan and rationalise and the organisation of work, the ability to manage workloads, the amount of work done. Third time. The ability of analytical thinking and creative legal reasoning, which, for example, is shown as the ability to quickly identify essential legal and factual issues, the ability to reason logically, the ability to fully understand coherently structured and convincingly express. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The criteria for judges must also be the ability to understand the consequences of the decision. Once again, I repeat: the ability to understand and the consequences of the decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues! From such arguments, I can say flat-rate, substantively extremely modest arguments, then there are also the following arguments that we know here in the National Assembly, where large circles pass into small circles, where wire is not a wire and where there is less, there is more. And look, you've decided today that there's more and less. Just today, when the European Court of Justice recommenced its judgment and where Slovenia again lost its judgment in the European Court of Justice in Zlatka Azdajić v Slovenija, number 71872/12, where Mrs Nina Betetto, who has just been chosen as one of your favorite candidates, is therefore going to the Parliamentary Assembly, shows exactly this closure, the self-sufficiency of this judicial system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the colleague, nor will we oppose her, but not because she is a poor candidate, but because you cannot explain or follow your own criteria. For us, these are the criteria, and that's the argument, and we're representing some sort of common sense logic. I hope that the following candidates, whom you will present here, in particular on the Mandate-Election Commission, will take these own criteria into account. All these criteria, if we follow them, will make Slovenia a pain fairer, fairer for all citizens and a more legal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u398	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Natasha Smrekar as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Board Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Tamara Vont from the functions of a member of the Supervisory Board Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the termination of the term of office of a member of the National Council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Damian Knap is in a letter dated 22. Ten. 2015 He submitted a resignation statement to the National Assembly from the seat of the member of the Slovenian Radio Television Supervisory Board for personal reasons. On the basis of the above-mentioned Rules of Procedure, the Council of State proposes that, pursuant to Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be informed of the following decision: It is established that Damian Knap has resigned from the seat of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia and has therefore ceased his mandate as a member of the Supervisory Board of Radiotelevision of Slovenia under Article 26, paragraph 7, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. I'm guessing the State has made a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 13th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m., with matters that were scheduled for Saturday after the meeting’s time-consuming period. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I believe you'll be able to make the most of Saturday. You've earned it and, of course, all the jobs that allow us to work smoothly. Thank you, everyone.
