ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-02-SDZ7-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Anita Koleša, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Mr. Franz Breznik, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, mag. Branko Grimes, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Mr Branislav Rajić, Mr Janko Weber, Mr Roberto Battelli and Dr Matej T. Vatovec. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Mumorr, and other representatives of the Government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 29 September 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I am with the State by letter of 2. Ten. In 2015, he proposed to extend the 20th meeting by means of a proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Defence Committee. You received the proposal for enlargement today and it is published on the e-club. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Members and please check the operation of the voting devices. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as a 1.A item on the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Republic of Slovenia and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Republic of Slovenia and We are moving to the first part of the consideration and adoption of the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the budgetary memorandum 2016-2017, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, to present these budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-02-SDZ7-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Government shall adopt the first two-year budget for 2016 and 2017 in this mandate with the aim of further stabilisation and consolidation of public finances. The adoption of draft budgets for the next two years is a reflection of a common and unified part of the Government, which is certainly proof of strength and unity. We have recently recorded, as you know, positive indicators in the macroeconomic field. The unemployment rate is declining, almost 10 000 more employees than in the same period last year. What is particularly important is that the unemployment rate continues to decline, particularly among young people. As you know, the risk of poverty has stabilised and is no longer growing. Economic growth is increasing, and good forecasts are also good in advance. Of course, we know that this must not put us to sleep, that there is a hard work ahead of us, a great responsibility, but it is right to recognize these indicators and thus raise optimism. In preparing the budget proposals for the next two years, we have followed the objective of further promoting growth, including by promoting private consumption. The impact of progress in the public sector increases the volume of wage funds and contributions. Together with the budgets, we are also taking long-term action in various areas to ensure stable growth and fiscal consolidation. Recently, honourable Members and Members, you have passed the Fiscal Rule Act and the Fiscal Council is in the process of being established. Although it is not yet fully operational, the Government has followed the constitutional provisions and provisions of the law when preparing the budget, which require that the budgets of the State be balanced in the medium term without debt. The Fiscal Rule Act in the transitional period, when Slovenia is still recording the structural deficit of the state sector, requires its gradual resolution. The correction of the structural deficit must take place in accordance with the dynamics foreseen in the Stability and Growth Pact. In line with this dynamic, Slovenia is expected to address the structural deficit over the next five years. You therefore have before you the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017. With them, we follow our and European legal obligations and aim at the deficit of the country's sector below 3%. Nevertheless, we propose spending areas that will continue to promote growth and preserve the social situation of the weakest part of the population. In the proposal for both budgets, I would like to highlight the following priorities: we maintain human security and property, so we have increased the budget expenditure for the police and their appropriate equipment, and for the expenditure of the judicial authorities to modernise the prison system; in the next two years we have allocated resources to complete the emergency in Ljubljana; and more budget resources will also be allocated to the regulation of state roads and partially closed bridges, which is one of the priorities. And we could list it. In the following year, some austerity measures in the area of social protection and family benefits will be released, which have been adopted by the Public Finance Balance Act. In this way, several beneficiaries will receive child allowances. We have increased the basic amount of minimum income, which will mainly affect the higher amounts of monetary social assistance and thus improve the material situation of the most vulnerable groups. We will continue to invest in promoting the employment of young, elderly and long-term unemployed through various active employment policy measures. In the public sector, the natural outflow of employees will be replaced by employment of young people. In order to improve the situation of pensioners, we will coordinate pensions extremely in 2016. Positive economic growth indicators and consequently higher projected tax revenues in the budget give us more freedom in programming expenditure and directing only those to the right areas. In the 2016 draft budget, most of the ministries received more resources than they had available in the 2015 rebalancing, so we can all be pleased together, but we must not forget that our objective in the medium term is equal to the structural balance, so we continue to maintain a healthy faith of restrictiveity in the planning of expenditure. From 2016, the drawing-up of funds from the new financial perspective begins. The operational programme and the operational programme implementation plan identified priority investment areas for the period up to 2020. Over the next two years, priority investment areas will be as follows: entrepreneurship and competitiveness policy, science and the information society and the labour and education market. In selected areas, measures and projects will be implemented to improve competitiveness factors, promote economic productivity and increase employment rates. The objectives of the public financial policy of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 follow the requirements and recommendations of the EU Council in the context of the Stability and Growth Pact commitments and our own legal commitments to the fiscal rule. The achievement of the medium-term scenario is envisaged by intertwining investment promotion with measures for greater competitiveness, structural measures and fiscal responsibility. The main economic policy objectives for the period 2016-2017 remain as before: promoting economic growth by addressing key challenges in the area of economic indebtedness and the business environment and by pursuing gradual but sustained fiscal consolidation. These objectives are also followed by the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017. When adopting both budgets, of course, I wish you a constructive debate and a successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-02-SDZ7-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, for the additional presentation of the 2016-2017 budget memorandum, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-02-SDZ7-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Your Honor! In 2016 and 2017, years are specific and major challenges for public finances. Allow me to list five key challenges and briefly name them. It is a required reduction of the deficit, a reduction in European funds, the implementation of the social agreement, excessive expectations and the promotion of economic growth and employment. Let me first explain what falls within the context of the so-called challenge of the required deficit reduction. To achieve the sustainability of public finances, which means that the burden of current spending will not be passed on to future generations in the form of additional public debt, we need a balanced budget. This year we have set ourselves this goal with the recently adopted fiscal rule law, after careful consideration and with a broad consensus that such a goal is meaningful. The law therefore foresees a gradual reduction of the deficit in 2016 and beyond in order to structurally balance the budget by 2020. The transitional period is followed by the normal state of maintenance of the structurally balanced budget at a time when there are no exceptional circumstances. There is also a European aspect of deficit reduction, Slovenia will reduce the country's sector deficit to below 3% of gross domestic product in 2015, thus meeting the conditions for ending the excessive deficit procedure under EU rules after six years of deficit reduction. After the completion of the procedure, Slovenia will become subject to no less strict preventive control of Europe as laid down in the Stability and Growth Pact for the first time in 2016. This provides that countries must pursue such a public financial policy as to ensure that the medium-term fiscal objective is achieved. This is achieved by reducing the structural deficit by at least 0.5% of gross domestic product per year while ensuring that the growth of public expenditure does not exceed the potential growth of the economy. The second challenge can be called the challenge of reducing European funds, but it also refers to a major change in the structure of available European funds. In 2015, the previous 7-year period of European funding is ending, with the main drawback being concentrated over the last two years, with the start of the new 7-year period significantly lowering available European funds, with a large decrease in available resources in 2016 due to uncomparable exceptional drawdown in 2014 and 2015, as well as to the lower available EU resources. In the new financial perspective, Slovenia has €3.2 billion of cohesion funds at its disposal, which is 900 million less than in the old perspective. In addition to the fact that we are significantly lowering our own 7-year scale of available European funds for Slovenia and even more available in 2016 compared to 2015, there is a further decline in the share and thus the volume of investment resources. In the new period, less resources are allocated to physical infrastructure, such as road construction, cleaning facilities, sewerage. The main focus is on so-called soft development areas such as entrepreneurship, competitiveness, education and science. This further reduces the total volume of investments in the coming years. The third challenge, as it is said, relates to the implementation of the social agreement. An important limitation on the reduction of the deficit stems from a social agreement where the government has committed itself not to raise public financial burdens without the consent of the social partners. For this reason, the government's activities will also focus on the revenue side of the budget in the coming year mainly on increasing the efficiency of collecting duties. In view of such a commitment under the Social Agreement, which limits the government's revenue margin, the main effort to reduce the deficit had to be made to ensure that expenditure grew in line with the options. At this point, however, I can relate to the fourth challenge that we can call the challenge of excessive expectations. Macro-economic indicators show that the economic situation in Slovenia is improving. According to Umar's autumn forecast, Slovenia will achieve 2.3% of economic growth in 2016-2017. Increased private consumption is also expected in order to improve the general economic climate and consumer confidence. This is expected to increase by 2.6% in 2016 and 2% in 2017. It will also be important to improve labour market indicators where a gradual increase in employment is expected by about 1% each year. At the same time, the unemployment rate, which is estimated to reach 8.9% in 2016 and 8.5% in 2017, will be reduced. This expected improvement in the economic situation has, on the one hand, been of great benefit to us in the preparation of the draft budgets, as we expect budget revenues to increase in line with economic growth. On the other hand, the expected higher revenues have greatly increased expectations of higher public financial spending, as a number of measures to limit wage spending in the public sector, social transfers and pensions are expected to relax when higher economic growth is achieved. However, despite the satisfaction of the better macroeconomic situation, it should not be forgotten that the available gross domestic product for domestic consumption in 2015 is realistically about 15% lower than in 2008, which is the last year before the crisis in Slovenia. This means that the allocations cannot be returned to a pre-crisis level, as the available resources are significantly lower and it will take several years to grow before the gross domestic product available for domestic consumption reaches a pre-crisis level. In addition, it should be borne in mind that there has been a significant increase in interest expenditure which further distorts other public financial expenditure. The release of spending restrictions introduced in recent years would therefore only be possible if the public deficit increased sharply. Regardless of the good prospects, we must also be aware that any forecasting of future trends is linked to risks. In particular, we can expose the international economic situation on which we are heavily dependent and highly uncertain. A serious risk is a refugee issue that is exacerbated, complaints against the Republic of Slovenia and so on. Any such risk is still an additional challenge. As last mentioned in particular, I would like to highlight the challenge of promoting economic growth and employment. All the above challenges have a strong impact on economic growth and employment. Therefore, when preparing the budget, it is extremely important how we address the challenges of supporting economic growth and employment as much as possible, or at least not hindering them in a tight situation. For example, when addressing challenges, it is important that we carefully address the social protection rights of pensions and salaries in the public sector, as this can have an important impact on consumer confidence and thus on domestic demand. Domestic demand has begun to contribute again positively to economic growth years after the start of the crisis, and large interventions in public spending could once again reject this growth. Therefore, the volume of funds for these categories is maintained at an unaltered level or even slightly increased according to the options. The main reductions in consumption in these years are therefore based on other categories, notably investments, which of course is not good, as it reduces growth. This is not due to the Government's reckless austerity measures, but rather to the already mentioned significant reduction in the available European funds for investments in the coming years. As I will explain, the Government has done what was possible in the circumstances to mitigate this effect. So let me now present the key answers to these challenges. In the preparation of budgets 2016 and 2017, in line with the above requirements and constraints, we followed the principle of a further reduction of the deficit, which is prudent and gradual, since the rapid limitation of public spending could have a negative impact on the recovery of the economy we are witnessing. We in the Government have therefore committed ourselves to preparing measures in a sustainable manner to limit the growth of public finances. The available expenditure framework of the State budget has a significant impact on the extent of the resources planned for each area. Taking into account fixed obligations such as interest payments and payments to the EU budget, the budgetary use has been geared in line with priorities and capabilities, given the limited framework. That is why we have set strict priorities, these are areas of human security and property, health, justice, infrastructure and education. On the expenditure side, the Government is gradually releasing restrictions on certain categories of social protection rights that have been in force in recent years in order to reduce the gross domestic product available. In the following year, it will increase, as already stated by the President of the Government, the basic amount of minimum income from EUR 270 to EUR 288, which will mainly affect the higher amounts of monetary social assistance and thus improve the material situation of the most vulnerable groups. In the National Assembly you have also received amendments to the Law on Social Security Benefits, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. On the other hand, despite the economic growth in the 2016 and 2017 budgets, there is still no room for the return of all rights to pre-crisis levels in the area of family and parental benefits, social transfers and scholarships. In line with the restrictions, the government has also drawn public sector wage targets. Thus, the level of resources to cover public sector labour costs in 2016 is maintained at the level of such expenditure in 2015, increased by the effects of the progress made and reduced by the extent of the payment of the second part of the third quarter of the elimination of wage imbalances. Since wage and other employee expenditure measures expire in 2016, the Government is working with trade union partners to reach a new agreement on labour costs that will allow for the retention of these expenditure under the provisions of the Social Agreement and thus achieve the objectives or commitments of reducing the public financial deficit. The objective of the Government remains to ensure that the structure of public sector employees springs from the employment of young people. The government is also working to reach agreement with representatives of municipalities on the level of the average and investment transfer from the state budget for both years. At the same time, with a proposal of average height, the Government will continue its project to reduce the costs of municipalities through legislative burdens and also expect municipalities to be further rationalised in their operations. Given the strongly reduced available investment resources due to a decrease in European funds of almost EUR 500 million, the government has sought to partially replace this shortfall with integral funds. Integral investment funds thus increase by 8.8% in 2016 in the draft budgets, while all government budget expenditure increases by only 1.5%. However, in 2017, investment from integrated funds is further increased by 11.7% in 2016. On the revenue side of the budget, the Government proposes a series of legislative changes, in particular with a view to increasing the efficiency of collecting public taxes, maintaining unchanged tax rates and reducing administrative barriers to compliance with tax obligations. In this context, they were prepared: amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, law on compliance with customs rules, new excise legislation and, with a view to improving the collection of public taxes, the Law on tax clearance of invoices, which will be introduced by the end of 2015, will be adopted. Several bills have already been received by Members, some of them can be expected by the end of this year. We will also continue with the restructuring project with the aim of reducing the burden of public duties. On the basis of all these constraints and challenges, the Government has adopted budgets for the next two years, first for 2016. In 2016, €8 billion 627 million of revenue, €9 billion 417 million of expenditure and government budget deficits of €789 million and 1.98% of gross domestic product were planned. Among the planned revenues are 83% of the tax revenues, 10.8 of the funds received from the EU budget, 5.5 non-tax revenues and 0.6% of capital revenues, donations and transfer revenues. The planned budget revenue for 2016 is higher than the estimated revenue for 2015 by €141.3 million or nominally by 1.7%). On the expenditure side, the part of the budget relating to European funds was first fully programmed. Therefore, with objectives and indicators for measuring compliance with these objectives. The basis for drawing on these funds is the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 and the substantive and financial breakdown of the operational programme is the implementation plan of the operational programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is the basis for the preparation of the national budget. The maximum amount of resources is planned in this context for entrepreneurship and competitiveness, science and the information society, environmental protection and environmental infrastructure and the labour market. In the 2016 draft budget, the cohesion funds of the new financial perspective are planned at EUR 436 million. In doing so, European funds are planned for budgetary users for the purposes where projects have already been designed, while for the remaining part of the funds, these European funds are planned for the management body, which is for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development Service and European Cohesion Policy. Funds will be redeployed to ministries during the implementation of the budget once the conditions are met and key programming documents adopted. This will make the management body significantly more in control of the way and dynamics of drawing and the achievement of the objectives set, since we do not want to see the previous perspective drawback when almost half of all the resources available to us have been pumped in the last two years. However, the largest integral part of the budget has clearly defined priorities, which, as already mentioned, are human security and property, health, justice, infrastructure and education. In total expenditure, both from integrated and dedicated and European resources, together with Slovenian participation, will have the largest relative increase in available resources in 2016, in view of the 2015 policy assessment of implementation: entrepreneurship and competitiveness, energy sources and energy efficiency, and science and information society. The reductions in individual policies, such as transport and transport infrastructure, are mainly due to the reduction of available resources from the European Structural Funds over the next two years, as a large proportion of European funds were planned and used for these purposes in 2014 and 2015. As already mentioned, the Government has endeavoured to replace the loss of investment funds at least partially by increasing the integral resources for this purpose, and plans, as far as possible, to eliminate the impact of this reduction on economic growth and employment, by attracting private investment and implementing various financial instruments that will be available to SMEs in particular. In 2017, 8 billion 705 million revenue and 9 billion 423 million expenditure and government budget deficits of EUR 717 million are planned or should not exceed 1.74 % of gross domestic product. Among the planned revenues are 84.6% of the tax revenue, i.e. more than 9.7% of the funds received from the EU budget, 5.2% of the tax revenue, remaining revenues. Tax revenues are the most increasing within this category of value added tax, which is normal at the time of economic growth. Further restricting the growth of public financial expenditure, which is also a prerequisite for strong economic growth and sustainable development in our country, has led governments also in the planning of the 2017 budget, and therefore the budget users plan for the 2017 work costs at the level of such funds in 2016, which they can only increase for the effects of progress. In 2017, an increase in expenditure is foreseen in the draft budget, but let me say that in 2017, revenue growth is higher than growth in expenditure, with revenue rising by EUR 78 million in 2017, while expenditure growth is planned at EUR 6 million. The 2017 budget is also considered to be part of a budget financed by European funds and Slovenian participation and a fully programmed budget and an integral part has clearly defined priorities, where the 2016 priorities are added to the infrastructure priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude that, in preparing the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017, the main lead was to find the best balance in responding to the five key challenges I presented at the outset: the challenge of the required deficit reduction, the reduction of European funds, the implementation of the social agreement, excessive expectations and the further promotion of economic growth and employment. In addition to these, the draft budget also addresses other challenges and risks. The first challenge of the required deficit reduction is addressed by reducing the cash flow deficit from 1.38 billion this year to 789 million in 2016 and 718 million in 2017 and in line with the ESA 2010 European methodology from 2.9% this year to 2.2%, 2016 and 1.7% of GDP in 2017. Another challenge – the reduction of European funds – was to the greatest extent possible by increasing expenditure from the integral part of the budget, for example in investments by 9% in 2016 and an additional approximately 12% in 2017 of expenditure on culture and others. The third challenge – the implementation of the social agreement – is addressed by maintaining unchanged tax rates and by measures to remove administrative barriers to compliance with tax obligations and by increasing the efficiency of the collection of public taxes. The challenge of excessive expectations is addressed by the release of crisis limits on social rights for the most vulnerable groups and by the sustainable increase in the available resources of budgetary users to meet the priorities. At the same time, I would like to reiterate that the level of available resources is really far from the level available before the crisis. We have also addressed the challenge of further promoting economic growth and employment by designing measures that have no negative impact on domestic demand and by maximising the impact of the fall in investment from European funds by increasing funds for these purposes in the integral part of the budget. At the same time, budgetary spending is geared towards priorities that ensure current and future development. However, under all these restrictions, risks have to be addressed as much as possible. In doing so, due to the risks arising from the macroeconomic environment, in particular the international environment, we have developed measures that to the greatest extent possible support domestic consumption, measures to help small and medium-sized enterprises and measures aimed at the export economy. We have also addressed the risk of security in relation to the refugee issue to a certain extent through the priorities of budgetary spending. Finally, I would like to say that the coordination of budgets has been long and difficult. There has been a tremendous amount of effort on our part, so I thank all of you very much. The budgets ahead of you are thus a reflection of the common work. Slovenia is on a good path to economic recovery and by adopting the proposed budgets for 2016 and 2017 we are achieving the objective of sound public finances and stability of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-02-SDZ7-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the budget memorandum 2016-2017 of the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. I thank the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, for his presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and to the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Members and Members of Parliament, Members' groups, interested working bodies and the Government may make amendments to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 up to and including 12. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, it's a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the chairman of the Defence Committee. The draft decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for consideration. Does the representative of the proposer of the draft decision want to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can move to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Defence Committee President Mr Jan Mahnic, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
