ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Cink, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker until 1 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the Republic's budgets for 2014 and 2015 under the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u2	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Parliament! The proposed amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the budgets for 2014 and 2015 affect two substantive areas. Rules for drawing European funds from the new programming period are laid down and the new Article 39a regulates the legal link between the rules for the implementation of the State budget and the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act. First of all, with regard to the rules for drawing up European funds. The proposed law lays down rules which will, as a rule, be taken into account in the new financial perspective in addition to the rules applicable to the old financial perspective. A new third sub-chapter has been added. Taking into account the need to ensure that European funds are drawn up as quickly as possible, and also as quickly as possible from the European budget to the State budget, the possibility of prepayments is also maintained in the new financial perspective, in the same way as under the applicable law for the old financial perspective, while a new commitment is made after the rapid repayment of funds to the State budget, so that the beneficiary has to provide proof of payment no later than 120 days after the receipt of the funds. The proposed law also provides for the possibility of payment of appropriations from the budget one day before the beneficiary of these funds is subject to payment. In this case, the beneficiary shall be required to provide the proof of payment to the intermediate authority no later than 8 days after the actual payment. As a result, it will be possible to require reimbursement from the EU budget no later than 14 days after the state budget has been paid and the indirect budgetary users and holders of public powers will be significantly facilitated. Furthermore, the proposed law also sets out the mandatory conduct of the managing authority, the intermediate body or the certifying authority in the event of undue use of funds from European cohesion policy. The managing authority shall also be empowered to require the implementation of a measure to suspend payments from individual cohesion policy items in the event of more serious infringements. The proposed law also recognises the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities as the managing authority, in the area of spending the Fund's resources on European assistance to the most vulnerable. In short, there is a proposal for a new Article 39a. The proposed amendment to the law provides that the Slovenian State Holding will only be able to decide on the acquisition of the capital share on the basis of the prior confirmation of the Ministry of Finance, which concludes that funds are provided for this purpose in the budget. The proposed arrangements, given the need to provide funds in the country's budget, relate to the rules on the implementation of the budget, under which commitments may be made and the resources payable to the current year's budget for the purpose alone and to the amounts set out in the budget. At the same time, it is also stipulated that the payment shall be made to a company in which the Republic of Slovenia will acquire the investment directly. This is without prejudice to the basic principles of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the independence of SDH in decisions relating to the management of state property, but a link is established between the implementation of the budget and the decisions of the Slovenian State Holding. It takes into account all of the above, the Government proposes to support the National Assembly's proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at the 10th meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 6. In 2015, the Government submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The bill was also forwarded to the congregations. The amendments to the individual article of the bill were tabled by the Coalition Group, the Joint Left Group and the ZaAB Group until the meeting of the Committee. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Development and European Cohesion Policy and the Legal and Legislative Services attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the aim of the law is to legislate two substantive solutions, establishing a legal basis for drawing on cohesion funds. In particular, it is a matter of defining in more detail the use of funds and the possibility of redistribution rights. However, the second content relates to the provision by which SDH must obtain the Ministry of Finance’s assurance that financial resources are provided in the budget before the final investment decision. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, the Service made some comments of a substantive nature and specific comments to the individual article of the draft law. At the meeting, the representative said that the amendment took into account individual comments to this Act. The Committee also presented a written opinion by a representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, who does not support the bill. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled to the article of the draft law. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 4 and 6 of the coalition groups. However, the amendments of the ZaAB and the United Left have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 brings some news. The basic novelty and the basic objective of the law is the legalisation of solutions that will allow for the current and smooth implementation of the country's budget in 2015 and the legal basis for the effective absorption of cohesion policy funds. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that such a solution is appropriate and we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to really help Slovenia draw as effectively as possible on the cohesion funds available. In view of everything said in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not object to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u7	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! Allow me to give you a brief overview of the position of the Desus Group on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. As we have already heard, the law will legislate solutions that will allow for the current and smooth implementation of the country's budget in 2015 and the legal basis for the effective absorption of European cohesion policy funds. The latter is mainly concerned with a more detailed definition of the use of funds and the possibility of redistribution rights. A new content is therefore added concerning the use of European cohesion policy funds in the 2014-2020 programming period. For projects financed from these funds, the Ministry of Finance will be able to open a new item during the year. This can only be done on a proposal from the direct user and following prior agreement of the managing authorities and provided that the rights of consumption on new items are guaranteed only through reallocations. In our Group of Members, it seems important that the adoption of the Authority's law of competence will significantly increase compared to the old financial perspective, as the law will allow it to act in case of delays in the implementation of projects. The novelty sets out the mandatory conduct of the managing authority, the intermediate body or the certifying authority in the event of an unjustified use of European cohesion policy funds. The managing authority must require the intermediate body to establish a claim to the beneficiary who has found that the European Cohesion Policy funds have been misused unjustifiably. In our Group of Members, we believe that the unjustified use of European funds is an unacceptable act, and it is therefore appropriate that a claim be made to the beneficiary in this case. An exception is also laid down which relates to the exception already in force, after which prepayments of 30 % of the contractual obligations foreseen are eligible. So far, funds have been paid on a flat-rate basis in accordance with that point, of 30 %, although sometimes the actual costs to the beneficiaries were incurred only after a year or two. The new proposal lays down an additional condition under which the beneficiary of European cohesion policy funds must undertake to provide proof of payment within 90 days of receipt of the funds. This means that funds from the State budget will only be paid to the extent necessary for the implementation of an activity, programme or project in the next three months. The proposal also provides for a new amount at which the recovery cost is meaningless or uneconomical. European rules allow Member States to decide in justified cases not to carry out recovery procedures. On the basis of the analysis of the data reported by the Member States, it was found that recovery costs are disproportionate to the amount of the claim if the amount to be recovered from the beneficiary in respect of the individual payment does not exceed EUR 250 without interest. The second, perhaps even more important, substantive part of the draft law is a provision referring to the fact that before the final decision on the acquisition of capital investment by the Republic of Slovenia, SDH must obtain the approval of the Ministry of Finance that funds are provided in the budget of the State for this purpose. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance is not competent to determine whether the acquisition of an individual capital investment is appropriate, but only confirms to the Slovenian State Holding that funds are provided in the budget. This is how we support the decision in the Desus Group, because there is no doubt that the Ministry of Finance is the budgetary user who has, or must have, a review of the expenditure of the budget. Such a review of the use of funds, as well as knowledge of the needs of other budgetary users by additional means or the need to redistribute them, provides a basis for deciding whether it is possible to give the Slovenian State Holding Group a so-called green light for the acquisition of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] only and exclusively in terms of the availability of funds in the budget. [[...]] However, this is not a matter for the IMF to make a substantive decision on whether to buy or sell individual capital investments. This responsibility remains with the management and supervisory board of SDH, which must be fully aware and take full responsibility for its actions. As we say, in the Desus Group, we believe that the bill is good and we will also unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 in the Group of Members, because we are aware that in the last period we have been funding investments virtually exclusively from the European Union, the Cohesion Fund and very little from our own resources. Therefore, the efficiency of drawing on the European budget is also crucial to our development, and it is therefore necessary to ensure the legitimate and efficient use of cohesion policy funds, which this law also provides in its content. On the other hand, this implementation is extremely important because we note that we have invested a great deal of money in the recapitalisation of banks over the past period, but these banks are not returning funds through cooperation with the economy and thus also increasing the efficiency of the private sector in investing in investments. So we are really very, very dependent on whether we will effectively draw on European funds or not. An important part of this law is also the decision to help the Slovenian State Holding to acquire, on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, investments in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to acquire this capital investment, funds must also be made available in the budget, and this law allows the holding company to do so on the basis of the funds provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In the parliamentary group, we will support this law and hope that European funds will be used as efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u12	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law governs two areas which are not related to each other. The first is the use of European cohesion funds and the second is the purchase of investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In the United Left, we do not have specific comments on the first set, so on cohesion, but we have a lot of comments on the second set, i.e. as regards SDH. With regard to cohesion funds, it can be found that the solutions proposed in this law are quite self-sufficient. In the debate at the Committee and in the letters of the congregations, we did not find any serious opposition to this solution, but we have closely monitored the responses of the communities and their associations, which have pointed out what is not in this proposal. The government could understand from these opinions that the current funding does not allow municipalities to carry out their legal duties. We must point out, for example, the abolition of subsidies for those socially disadvantaged people who, due to the lack of non-profit housing, have to rent apartments at market price. They received a general subsidy and a difference between market rent and non-profit rent, and this support was lifted by the government and seriously affected socially disadvantaged in those municipalities that are not capable of providing sufficient non-profit housing. At a time when we have practically the highest growth in the euro area and already the fifth consecutive quarter of positive growth, such a measure, i.e. the abolition of subsidies for those who cannot afford housing at market prices, is incomprehensible and heartless. If I go to another thing now, on SDH. The proposal before us revealed that there is no transitional solution in the SDH Law in case SDH would like to recapitalise some state-owned company before adopting a governance strategy. In the United Left, we do not oppose investment in development or that SDH would like to recapitalise one of the companies in which it has a stake, but we oppose the absurdity that SDH may now decide completely autonomously to buy a share in an undertaking at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia without the Government or the National Assembly approving budgetary resources for this. The solution proposed by the Government allows this. The Ministry of Finance in this regulation only confirms that the funds are available, and then no democratically elected body shall decide whether such purchase is appropriate or justified. This is contrary to the Government's legal obligations to ensure the purposeful use of public funds. The solution proposed by the Government is not satisfactory, and this is shown by comparing it with the regime that will apply after the adoption of the governance strategy under the SDH Act. The strategy will be adopted by the National Assembly and will have to define the shares that SDH will acquire from the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this strategy, the SDH will then draw up a proposal for an annual management plan to be sent to the government and the government will assess in the process whether the annual management plan is appropriate. In this process, the Government will therefore have to verify whether it is right for SDH to buy a share and will also grant funding for this purpose. This is her duty, and this law allows her to do so, but only after the adoption of the strategy, while the transitional regime explicitly prevents this. This provision would be corrected in the United Left with the proposed amendment, while at least temporarily improving investment after the adoption of the governance strategy. The current regime assumes that the Government agrees with the annual management plan, where investment must be planned and justified, but the annual plan is adopted in November and December, while the deal can only be implemented at the end of the following year. In this 12-month period, however, the situation can change significantly. It can prove, for example, that the business will require additional resources that have not been foreseen in the budget. It can be found that the investment is not at all reasonable. The confirmation of the Ministry of Finance, which we would introduce with the amendment, would thus be a kind of guardian. The Ministry, under the SDH Act, is a representative of public interest and should therefore re-check the proposed business before it is realized. If the suspicion of insolvency or irregularities arose, the Ministry could take preventive action in accordance with the law and protect the public interest. These changes seem urgent to us and we commit our support to the Government's support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Today's amendment to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 is necessary in order to start drawing European cohesion funds from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, which started a year and a half ago. As we know, the current legal provisions have allowed European funds to be drawn only from the old or previous financial perspective 2007-2013, which is being concluded in financial terms this year. The solutions proposed are good and enable the legal and effective use of European funds, so we will support them in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. In fact, European funds are our only development resources, and that is why we need to draw them effectively. In fact, part of Slovenian policy has successfully pushed away foreign capital, and therefore we remain in some old business model or some old economic policy that is not effective, which does not guarantee the long-term development of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is no wonder that Mr Marble, Minister of Finance, is concerned that he said yesterday that 2016 will be extremely difficult. We believe in the Minister of New Slovenia because he has the most information, and we are concerned about it. It is particularly important to maintain the possibility of pre-payments from the state budget, as this is the way in which beneficiaries can run for European funding at all. In the majority of beneficiaries, direct and indirect budgetary users, do not have their own resources for these purposes and often do not have the opportunity to obtain them. An important novelty is also the possibility of paying the beneficiary's obligations to the European Cohesion Policy from the State budget one day before the default. We believe that this option will significantly increase the range of budget users who will run for European funding. Already at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Christian Democrats highlighted the necessary opening of a debate on the level of the average for municipalities in the second half of this year. The amount of the average shall be determined by the law currently in force from 1. Seven. 2015 to the end of this year at 500.83 euros, while for the first half of this year it was 525 euros. When adopting the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the Government promised to adopt measures that would have a net financial impact on the local community plus EUR 23 million, which would relate to the revenue and expenditure side of municipal budgets. The Government has not yet brought such measures to Parliament, and the second half of the year is practically here. The funds received from local communities from the State budget at the level of adequately agreed or set averages are an important financial resource for the functioning of local communities and ensure the performance of their statutory tasks. We find that local communities, that is, congregations, receive more obligations each month and receive less money. This is particularly true in rural peripheral municipalities, i.e. those where there are no strong economic operators. This only distances us from coherent regional development. Such a policy is not good, it is the destruction of Slovenian local government and is in fact contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Such politicians will be strongly opposed by Christian Democrats. Although today's amendment to the law on the implementation of the budgets of an article of the law governing the size of the averages of municipalities does not open, in Nova Slovenije we point out the need for an early regulation of this issue. The average for this year, i.e. for the second half of the year, must remain at least EUR 525. We therefore expect the Government to begin negotiations immediately with representatives of local communities on this issue. As has already been said, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats today will be supported by the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u15	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u16	President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 is intended to be a technical law based on its basic characteristics, a law that would state how the budget should be implemented in the period for which it is actually adopted. Well, the law on the implementation of budgets has long been more than just a technical law. Regrettably, any adopted budget or its balance, or, as today, when we do not deal with the balance or the budget, there are some new elements in it that do not belong to it. Although I could at least be a little problematic about the content that the ZIPRS proposal contains and that we accept today, I will not do so. This has already been done by my colleagues in front of me and also the Legal and Legal Service. But I'm going to point out some things that are bothering us, and that's that we're adopting the law on the basis of a regulation. As we know, there are hierarchyes of legal acts in the rule of law or at least there are. The acts are supposed to be followed in some order, hierarchy – constitution, law, regulation, rulebook. I don't know how the law can be drawn up on the basis of a regulation. I think it should be the other way around. For the Alliance, it is more problematic than anything else that today's novel is not being addressed. I would like to recall the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015, Novel D, provided for a lower average for the period from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015 in accordance with agreement with the municipalities. In exchange, the municipalities would be able to reduce costs and thus ensure that they do not fall under financial and liquidity constraints. It's all good and good. From here on out, there are no measures that would actually lower costs today when we are in the second half of June. [[...]] The government has not yet prepared them or, as it appears, does not even know what measures this is meant to be. In fact, there is a serious risk that measures to reduce the costs of municipalities will not, at least not in July, when the actual average falls from €525 to €500. Here we are talking about the good EUR 20 million that the municipalities will obviously have to replace themselves, although this money is intended for the tasks performed by the municipalities, and it has been imposed on them by the state. As I said before, it's not what the law says that's problematic for us, but it's what's not in marriage. The problem is, we're adopting laws. This has been the case with the last amendment of the law on the implementation of budgets, which we do not know how it will be implemented. I'm talking about the average for the congregations again. To my question what measures will be taken and how this article will actually be implemented, the Secretary of State replied that this is an inappropriate question. I believe that, until today, at the Ministry of Finance, they have found that he was more uninhibited, not to say anything else, the Ministry of Finance's answer than our question. I think the coalition wants to deal with another more important law in the coming week, this is the fiscal rule law, which they also cannot tell us how, in what way, everything else needs to be further changed so that the law can be implemented. It is irresponsible to adopt such laws, so we expect the coalition, but of course we too are willing to participate, to prepare and adopt laws that we know will be implemented when we adopt them. However, we expect and require the Government to provide an average of €525 by 1 July to the municipalities, if it does not find measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The implementation of the budget shall cover all the procedures and activities to be carried out in order to implement the budget adopted, both at the level of the budget and the whole and at the level of the individual financial plan. The implementation procedures of the budget shall be governed in more detail by the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This time, the amendment to the law on the implementation of the budgets for 2014 and 2015, which we are considering today, is addressed by two content sets. The first set deals with issues related to the implementation and use of cohesion policy funds in the 2014-2020 programming period. During the period since the adoption of the last amendment of this Law, procedures have been adopted to date and preconditions have been met to lay down rules for the use of European cohesion policy funds for the next programming period. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a regulation on the use of European cohesion policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia laying down national rules for the use of cohesion policy funds. However, since all the content laid down by the regulations of the European Union is not allowed to be regulated under law and since the content is also linked to the implementation of the budget, the proposed amendment of the law lays down certain powers and obligations of individual bodies in the use of cohesion policy funds. Compared to the regulation of the use of funds for the old financial perspective, the new rules set out different possibilities for prepayments from European funds and rules relating to the unjustified use of funds in relation to the possibility of suspending the implementation of individual cohesion policy items if irregularities were to occur and corrective measures would not be carried out in accordance with the requirements. There is also an opportunity to redistribute spending rights on cohesion policy items if there were any irregularities on an item and this could jeopardise the absorption of funds as a whole. In any event, this change makes it possible to draw on the resources foreseen in the State budget for this year at more than one billion euro and in fact represent the largest part of the funds from which state investments are financed, which also have a significant positive impact this year on economic growth and employment. However, the second set governed by this amendment provides that in cases where SDH acquires capital shares on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, before the final decision on the acquisition of the investment, SDH must obtain an assurance from the Ministry of Finance that financial resources are provided in the country's budget. This does not mean that the Ministry of Finance will assess whether the acquisition of an individual capital investment is necessary, reasonable and appropriate, but it will only confirm to the Slovenian State Holding that the budget of the State for the purpose of obtaining capital investments guarantees the right of consumption at an appropriate amount. It is a link between the State budget or the B balance sheet of the State budget and the Slovenian State Holding Act, but it is without prejudice to the competence of SDH to manage capital investments independently. In view of the proposed amendment, it follows the objective of allowing for the current and smooth implementation of the country's budgets in 2015 and establishes appropriate legal bases for the effective absorption of cohesion funds in the new programming period. That is why in our parliamentary group we will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will briefly just explain our amendment, namely the amendment on acquisition of shares in the Republic of Slovenia. As I have already said in my position, in the United Left, we are not at all opposed to the possibility that the Slovenian State Holding would recapitalise a state-owned company, if necessary, with budgetary resources, to enable it to develop. The amendment of the United Left is based on the finding of the Legal and Legislative Service that the proposed first paragraph of Article 39a does not distinguish between the arrangements until the adoption of the first annual management plan and the adoption of this document, which is adopted on the basis of the existing investment management strategy. As I have already presented in my position, this is mainly about the synchronisation of these two arrangements. In our view, the proposed preliminary solution is flawed. The Ministry of Finance, following this proposal, which will be in force under this Article, shall issue to the state holding company some kind of Bianca opinion. The Ministry must not judge whether the acquisition of certain shares or the recapitalisation of an undertaking is at all prudent. In fact, if funds are provided in the budget, they must be paid regardless of the eligibility of the investment. This is unacceptable and, in our opinion, also contrary to the basic concept of the SDH Act. Pursuant to Article 30 of the SDH Act, the SDH administration must draw up an annual investment management plan and include the acquisition of new investments in the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. Then SDH must obtain the government's consent on this proposal, and in our constitutional order it is the duty of the government and its ministries to ensure the purposeful use of funds. The government can't and must've given in by law to some SDH, if I can quote the Minister of the Jews in some ironic way. We have therefore proposed an amendment that will, therefore, transfer the government's consent to the transitional reflections when the annual plan and management strategy have not yet been adopted. The solution we are proposing is therefore exactly the same and simple. It is also – we are also regulating this with an amendment – but a permanent arrangement for the provision of funds for investment at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia needs to be complemented. We do not object to the fact that, for larger investments and socially beneficial projects, state-owned companies can also be recapitalised from the budget, but we are against the autonomous decision of eight people, eight managers in the administration and in the SDH supervisory council. The decision on the use of budgetary resources is the responsibility of the Ministry and Government, which is directly controlled by the National Assembly, as a directly-loved democratic body. And as far as we understand section 30 of the SDH Act, it is the duty of the government and the ministry to verify the value of investments every time, not to issue a bill of exchange for spending budgetary resources. This is their legal, even constitutional function, which, in our view, cannot be delegated to an executive, management body. Otherwise, consensus would be irrelevant and should not even be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u21	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right for SDH to decide on its own – that is why it was also established – on capital investments and also on sales. There is another question here – that before his investment he will have to go to the Ministry of Finance to ask if there is money for it. And the second question is, what if that money doesn't exist? I hope that the whole matter will work in practice, that communication will be ongoing and that this will enable SDH to play its role. It would be wrong for SDH to be limited or unable to operate because of such a provision when it has to inquire about the financial situation in a particular item. Allow me to take a look at two other areas governed by this law. The first area is the drawing-up of European funds. I think it's positive that we take all of those solutions that allow for more pumping as soon as possible. Here I appeal to the Government that it will not happen that in the next perspective it will draw on everything at the end, as it did this year, when, according to the latest information, it is still around a billion euros, which is bad. And that this will also be aligned with current budgets. So there's no problem with pumping. There's no problem in this marriage. Problems arise when these investments need to be made, prepared and financed. Let's hope there's less trouble than there has been before. Thirdly, I would express my concern at the opinion of the Council of State concerning the averages of the municipalities. On the one hand, municipalities have additional tasks, and on the other hand, they are limited to an average of EUR 505, regardless of the fact that the revenue in the budget is growing, that we have a higher value added tax in relation to previous periods and also in the light of the plan set out here by the Government. Therefore, it would make sense to agree as soon as possible with the congregations and also to have enough money to finance them. After all, they are the generator of development, and I hope that this will happen. In other words, as Mrs Bratušek has already said, this is a law that includes everything that is not elsewhere. Things are patching up that should probably be arranged somewhere else. Probably with regard to transparency of as few such solutions as possible and as many systemic solutions as possible or problems being resolved where they actually belong. So much for the comment on this law. As has already been said by Mr Pogačnik, we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u23	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to respond to the amendment proposal and to some other discussions on the proposed law. First, with regard to the amendment. As I said in the introductory address, the purpose of this provision is to establish a legal link between the implementation of the budget and the tasks of SDH. The purpose of this provision is not to interfere with the management system of state property as provided for by the SDH Act. I can only see that this happens with the proposed amendment. The proposed solutions reach into certain solutions relating to the management of state property, and we estimate that this would not be appropriate in this Article and in this law, even taking into account Mrs Bratušek's warnings and now Mr Širclja's remarks. In view of the fact that several Members raised the question of the average with the municipalities, I would like to inform you of the following. This bill was submitted to the National Assembly in early May when discussions with the ministries and municipalities took place. In fact, we have identified possible reductions in the costs of municipalities in the amount of €9 million, all on the basis of amendments to the sub-legislative acts, and these are now in the final stage of preparation. This result has already been presented to the municipalities and the Government's intention to correct or change the average for the missing EUR 13.7 million. At this point, we are waiting for the community's response to our assessment of possible savings. For this reason, in the coming days, we will join the discussions on the possibility of amending the agreed agreement and will also propose to amend the law on the implementation of the budget. Business rules on how laws change unfortunately do not allow this to be regulated in this novel. Otherwise, it was not possible to act. We, too, are not satisfied with the frequent amendment of the same law, but the situation requires rapid action in a number of different areas, so the Government has decided on the approach I have explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u25	There's obviously still an interest in the debate, so please apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe in the well-intentioned amendment of the United Left, but New Slovenia – the Christian Democrats of this amendment cannot be supported in any way. We understand this quite differently, and we want a political governance of state property. This is also why we made an apolitical Slovenian state holding company. But politics is still very close here and still too influential. In 2012, we prepared a different concept of state property management, as well as ownership on the part of the Slovenian State Holding. But now it's the kind of solution we have, and we have to respect it. We think that this amendment gives the policy too much scope to influence key decisions again, and that is not good. This is probably what we have learned now, because every time a policy reaches out to such or other cases of governance or privatisation, our shares collapse. Well, that's what primary school boys already know. I hope that the entire Slovenian policy will also recognise this. We must not interfere with the management of companies. In this way, we are very effective in dissuading foreign investors, which we now need bloodyly. We need new jobs. Here again I remind you of the statement made by Minister Dr. Marble, that 2016 will be extremely difficult. We have to get ready for this today. I hope it's not too late. What was the joint presentation of the views of the groups? Several parliamentary groups, last of their colleagues, Alenka Bratušek, on behalf of the Alliance, made clear the need for a discussion on setting the average for the second half of this year. 500 euros is far too little. Local communities are on their feet, the European Charter of Local Self-Government has been violated. This is about self-government. I do not want to influence representative organisations here, namely the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. However, I would just like to point out that there has been a great deal of dissatisfaction in the signing of the agreement, which was applicable to the establishment of the average for this year. So these two associations also need to pay more attention and listen to all the congregations, including small, rural, peripheral ones, those who do not have some strong economic operators to hire. Today, we need to listen to the smallest municipalities, and I do not want these 23 million, which the government has predicted will register or register net financial effects only in four, five urban municipalities. I tell you, by this point, in this first half, these effects are completely unknown in rural congregations. Now we have to figure out what we're gonna do with local government. On the other hand, we all recognise and praise the municipalities, as between 70% and 80% of all public investments take place within the municipalities. Where do cohesion projects run? Mainly in a group of municipalities or in a region, such as the Pomur water supply, which, thank God, is concluded, and is now the largest cohesion project in this country. The municipalities are taking him. True, many years have taken them to unify, but it has succeeded. And I hope that the Pomurs will have unspoiled water in the second half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u27	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. If I have correctly understood the implementation of the Secretary of State, they do not support the amendment of the United Left, mainly because it is supposed to be contrary to another law. The contents of the government or the ministry do not interfere as much as the fact that it interferes with another marriage. In my opening presentation, I said that this is already an innumerable solution, which in this way solves things in the law on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, I would like to hear the opinion whether the Government opposes the content of the amendment in order to make it easier to decide whether to support it or not. In short, I don't care if it's contrary to any other law, because ZIPRO can write "no matter what...". I'm interested in the content. But I have to expose the congregations again. The answer that today, when we are 18 June, is not enough time to amend the law on the implementation of budgets is a little irresponsible. Members of the law on the implementation of budgets cannot be invested at all. If we were able to amend this law, the rules of procedure do not allow us to do so – but the reason is that this is really a technical law that would allow the Government to implement budgets – would be put in place and guaranteed to the municipalities what they are doing. We warned about this at the time of the adoption of the law, and I told you what kind of answer we got, but this is happening to us all the time. You presented a stability programme for 2016 and 2017 and also told us that we will later learn what measures will lead us to concrete numbers. I'm already here today, and I'm going to mention again the fiscal rule law. We don't have any answers here either. All the Government or the largest government party can tell us is that it appeals to our responsibility, that, given the need to do so, we too must be responsible. The responsibility on your part to tell how this will be done is not. I do not agree with those who say that this average will be the most affected by rural or small congregations. I am even convinced that it will have a greater impact on the great, but the greatest, congregation. And when we fought for it, you said it was a deal. Okay, the deal has really been made, but the agreement has to be fully respected, including the other part that concerns the government. And if everything is really arranged, as we've heard today, I don't know why we're getting e-mails and calls from the mayors who are calling on us to sort things out. Once again, I would like to make it clear that we cannot propose a bill on the implementation of budgets or changes, otherwise we would. So the government is the only one who can solve this thing. And I want to know how this will be resolved by 1 July. You have scissors and canvas and you had it in your hands to fix things in time if there were no action on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u29	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I just want to answer Mr Horvath and Mrs Secretary. We are not talking here about whether SDH can autonomously have state investment or not, but we are talking about whether SDH can autonomously have budgetary resources or not. I think that this needs to be dealt with in a completely separate way. We are talking about budgetary resources here, and the budgetary resources are being watched by the bodies – the National Assembly, the ministries, the government. With our proposal to the Ministry of Finance and Government, we are restoring the powers to monitor and monitor budgetary resources. At the same time, I would point out once again that this is not a radical measure, but it is a completely identical or very similar system of budgetary management, such as that which will be implemented after the adoption of the State Investment Management Strategy. In fact, then the National Assembly will adopt the strategy, then SDH will draw up a plan based on it and then place it in the government's approval. For a transitional period, this does not apply, for example, to the acquisition of new shares in the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, and during this transitional period we introduce a similar mechanism as will then apply. And here I am also interested, Madam Secretary, in what is your substantive reason not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u31	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment. The Government does not substantively support it, by explaining that, in the case of a state property management system as provided for by the SDH Act, it establishes an additional rule that is not in accordance with the SDH Act, and this seems inappropriate to us. The purpose of Article 39a was simply to establish a link between the implementation of the budget and the decisions of the SDH regarding possible increases in capital investments. With regard to the average, I say once again that the meeting with the associations of the congregations took place on Tuesday afternoon. The municipalities have a few days to tell us what their estimates of savings are, which are collectively identified. On this basis, we will begin discussions as soon as possible on the revision of the average level agreement and, on the basis of the agreed proposal, propose amendments to the budget implementation law, which will put in place new solutions as early as July. Exactly what the legal provisions will be, depending on how we deal with the congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u33	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I have already mentioned in the position of the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the law in work, which is also a difficult part, when it comes to more efficient use of European funds or the financing of cohesion projects. At this point, I would like to point out that the Government must do its utmost to ensure that cohesion funds or, in general, European funds are made available as soon as possible. I would like to point out that we have been in the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 for a year and a half. Members of the National Assembly also meet with Members from other Member States at various interparliamentary conferences, and we note that in some countries drawing from the new financial perspective has long been flowing since the beginning. Here I would like to draw attention to a decision that we adopted at the European Union Affairs Committee last February, which is that the European Union Affairs Committee is quarterly monitoring the dynamics of drawing on cohesion funds. With this quarterly monitoring, we have achieved much and are giving new impetus to European funds. I would like to point out that, during this time period, it is certainly necessary to consider whether the government's service for development and cohesion – but here as an opposition Member I have to put myself on the side of this government service – is now sufficient staff resources, given that it is still driving projects from an old financial perspective and we are already in a new financial perspective. Here the government should be quite flexible to see if any human resources are needed. In addition, on the Committee on European Union Affairs - here is Zvona Lah, the most vocal colleague, rightly - we are always reminding us of the 11 projects that have not yet been implemented, they do not yet have the conditions. Minister Alenka Smerkolj promised somewhere early this year, said that with the start of the construction season these projects could start. When does the construction season begin? According to the old Slovenian custom at the Jurassic, this is April 23rd or 24, now that we have new construction materials, probably earlier. Today we are in the middle of the year, and these 11 projects are still standing, they don't have a green light. Here I would like to point out that the Government really has to make sure that, in an administrative sense, it prepares everything necessary for these projects to have a green light. Yesterday, we received the Government's response to the Council's opinion on the law that we are currently considering, in particular as regards averages, regarding the financing of local self-government. The government here states: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at a meeting on 12. 6. 2015 considered the third report on the activities of ministries concerning the reduction of the costs of municipalities and found that the proposed and existing amendments to the rules reduce the costs of municipalities in 2015 by around EUR 9 million." We are talking about the net financial impact of 23 million. I am now interested – perhaps you will say, Mr President, that this is not a topic right now, but the government has put this opinion right on this law – which are these municipalities, whether they are urban, large or even rural, including the periphery in which these costs have been reduced by EUR 9 million, and what these measures have contributed to this. As now, most of us here, mainly from the opposition, are discussing, the municipalities have a problem and the mayors are on their feet. I am pleased that in this Communication, the Government also promises a new amendment to the Budget Implementation Act 2014 and 2015, where a higher average will be established. Thank God! Which means higher, whether it's 525 or more, is another question. We warn and believe that the government listens to us, and not only listens to us, but also respects us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u35	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment to the draft law on the implementation of the budget in any case brings new qualities. In particular, I see this in the area of increasing the efficiency of the use of cohesion funds, since, after all, we know that the main source of financing for investments is these European funds, and they are of particular importance to rural communities, which are also the most suffering or disincentived from development. In order to increase the efficiency of drawing and to focus these funds on those high-quality projects, it is undoubtedly important that the management authority should be given these additional powers or competences, since it is only in due time that it can take action and also propose the reallocation of these funds for those projects which also deserve this funding. So much for that. As far as SDH is concerned. Practically speaking, if we are looking at the current regime without the fact that SDH does not have the financial resources guaranteed in the budget, because it cannot conclude a business for the purchase of a capital share – this is not about the fact that the policy is involved in this or whatever impact, as they are independently preparing a proposal and proposing to the government that procedures are being run out to ensure the necessary financial resources in the country's budget in balance sheet B. I see no problem here. However, as regards the financing of municipalities, the averages, it can be clear that this has not happened now, that a set of circumstances has led to the fact that the source has unfortunately decreased. However, I certainly hope and I am sure that if the financial frameworks allow, this situation will also improve for the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u37	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote, one hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on end-of-life debt under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 6 Members and Members, with the first signed Luke Mesec. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Urški Ban, President of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at the 10th meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 6. As a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a single debt write-off law to be adopted by the National Assembly on 2. 4. 2015 proposed by the group of Members, with the first signed Luke Mesec. In order to address this point, the proposer, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities were invited, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service. Mr Mesec, the first-signed rapporteur, explained in a supplementary presentation to the Committee that in Slovenia it is a structural crisis with the resultant situation of many people below the poverty line, by opening up the possibility of a single write-off for the poorest. The proposer considers that the country's unconventional approach to the obvious specific problem, based on the example of countries in similar situations, is such. Below, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, explained after explaining that the Government's intention to support the Government's proposal was essentially highlighted by the fact that the Government had detected the problem and had approached it three months ago, but in a different way. In this regard, the Government considers that a comprehensive solution is only possible under a broader social agreement, which includes municipalities, banks and NGOs in addition to certain companies. According to the Government's assessment, it is only possible to take an appropriate approach to the debt write-off project to the socially poorest, which, at the social level, with a trust element, represents an optimal implementation within the framework of a common agreement. Following the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the evident substantive issue of a text which does not ensure equal treatment of debtors, nor to the criteria or conditions for write-off, nor to the procedure which would ensure that there will be no arbitral decision on write-off, nor to judicial protection against such decision. The decision taken by the creditor is not an administrative decision after that explanation, but only a civil declaration of the creditor’s will to the debtor. It was further stated that the specific comments of the Legislative and Legal Services relate to eight articles of the text, with some amendments only partially following the opinion. In the context of the presentation of the Commission's opinion on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance, it was said that the Commission supported the proposal, as it would benefit individuals with debts they could not pay, as legal persons with debts to debtors who would be stimulated by tax incentives in a certain way, and not least by the State, as a result of their contribution to the resolution of the social problem would undoubtedly create a positive climate among the population. On the initiative of Mr Janko Vebra, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the preliminary explanations for voting, a proposal was made to conclude that the text was not appropriate for further consideration. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy voted on the decision and endorsed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u39	I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the proposal for the Law of Luka Mescu for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u40	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we have prepared a proposal for a single debt write-off law because of the fact that the crisis we are facing in Slovenia is not individual, but structural. Throughout the last seven years of the crisis and the wrong government measures, which other solutions, as just and only savings on the shoulders of the poorest, have not been foreseen, we have come to an extremely dangerous situation. While the Government likes to point out statistics showing that the economic situation in the country is improving, on the other hand it always forgets to present those statistics that it does not like. This is how the government likes to talk about encouraging economic indicators and less like to talk about social indicators. Addressing the crisis at the expense of the population and the population with a belt tightening policy has led to the second largest increase in poverty in the EU in 2012 and 2013. These are data that show that action must be taken quickly and urgently. And the proposal for a single debt write-off law constitutes just such a measure. We have prepared the proposal on the basis of the solutions already in place in Croatia, Hungary and Iceland. And based on the comparison of these models, we have found a solution that is most suitable for Slovenia. The current law thus contains a rather simple mechanism whereby the poorest would write off debts in three steps. First, it creates a legal basis on which all legal persons, irrespective of their form and status, could approach the debt write-off completely voluntarily. They would communicate their intention to the Financial Administration, which would publish a list of all those involved, which individuals would then address to legal persons. Two categories of residents and residents would be entitled to write-offs on our proposal. The first category includes all recipients of social assistance or a protective allowance, while the second category includes all those living below a statistically defined poverty threshold. These people in the second category would report to social work centres, where they would get confirmation that their income is really so low, and then report to the Financial Administration, which would allow them to connect with companies interested in debt write-offs and thus resolve their difficult situation. Citizens and citizens in the vicious circle of unpaid bills could at least be allowed to have a new beginning with such a law, but on the other hand it would not have any special effects or costs for the state budget. It is therefore a solution that should be supported by both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, but everything else has happened on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as we have heard. Before that, before the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the draft law in the State Council received the unanimous support of all social partners, from the Chamber of Commerce, craftsmen, trade unions to the Chamber of Commerce, but unfortunately, despite this very positive message in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, something else has happened. For the Coalition has prevented the debate on this law and without getting the word of an invited member and members of the committee have decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. That it was an unacceptable manoeuvre of the coalition, both the Rules of Procedure Commission and the President of the National Assembly agreed. Of course, the reason for such conduct is not that the proposal is bad, but simply that it is an opposition proposal which the government coalition is unable to support regardless of its content. In the United Left we have the same goal, which we have repeatedly highlighted over the last six months of negotiations, and this is to find an effective solution that will quickly and on the basis of clearly defined criteria enable the poorest to write off their debts and give them an opportunity to start again. The Minister promised on the committee at the time of the collapse of our law that this would still happen and that the first write-offs would be by September, so we are counting on the Minister to keep her promise. We're happy with that. Our proposal has been implemented in this respect, or at least the Minister says it will. That's why we're holding the Minister's word. If there is no written-off in September, we will resubmit our proposal. And if that happens, we expect it to be that way. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Fair treatment. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u41	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! As already presented in the introduction, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, like most members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, opposes the adoption of the proposed law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the difficult situation in which citizens and citizens are located because of the debts they are owed, but at the same time we believe that the legal regime is not suitable and sufficient to help citizens and citizens. In particular, a number of questions are raised in the bill. The proposal for a law gives a new task to the tax authority, which is not of a tax nature. The proposal for a law would entail a significantly higher burden on social work centres, which is not acceptable. The bill provides for the introduction of a new information system, which represents new financial implications for the budget. The draft law does not provide for a clear procedure for determining the conditions for write-off and supervision. The draft law also interferes with the provisions of the Value Added Tax Act, which is in line with European law. According to the proposal of the law, natural persons are considered to be debtors to whom creditors will be able to write off their debts. This raises the problem that natural persons are also those who engage in activities. This raises the question of the appropriateness of including the debts of natural persons engaged in an activity arising from the exercise of an activity. So there were also a number of substantive concerns that the Government would not seem to have objected simply because of the opposition proposal. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the United Left Group that people need to be offered a hand in distress. Therefore, since February 2015 we have been preparing a broader package of aid to the socially most vulnerable, in addition to systemic solutions, in addition to the fact that each year the country devotes a significant share of gross domestic product to the most vulnerable. We have invited municipalities, businesses, humanitarian organisations and banks to participate. Our agreement will not only cover debt write-offs, but also assistance in the deployment and introduction of a social or prepaid card that will solve the problem of charging the costs associated with checking current accounts of residents. At the same time, we are aware that the cancellation of debts, which will be a one-time event, does not offer a long-term solution for citizens and citizens. The Government will therefore, within the framework of the operational programme for the drawing-up of European funds, also allocate funds, in particular, to the activation of recipients of social transfers, their integrated treatment and the establishment of a system of appropriate social activation programmes. This is what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to achieve as close as possible to the labour market and to achieve the most sustainable forms of work for the most vulnerable groups as possible. Certain activities will be carried out through the development of preventive programmes, including programmes for financial reporting of vulnerable groups. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly aware of the problem faced by citizens and citizens. It has approached this, and I believe that all of you, in particular citizens and citizens, will hold on to this promise that we will offer an integrated assistance package as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u43	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u44	Well-known, distinguished President, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a single debt write-off law could be said to be a very nice marriage, for none of us can face pressing social problems. People are in ever-increasing social distress. Whether it is a younger or an older population, the economic crisis unfortunately does not know the difference. That is why pensioners are no less affected. Data show that an increasing number of older populations are falling below the poverty line. The risk of poverty is only around 20% for older people. There are increasing numbers of pension recipients who are in an extremely difficult social situation, as according to the latest data some 49,000 pensioners receive pensions less than 300 euros. And what can we do with 300 euros a month? Almost every pensioner will most likely pay all his obligations first and then think about his personal needs. Most of them are so used to it, I'd say they're a cohesive practice. Responsible house budget management is a skill that is still unknown to everyone. But it is also true that hard times have forced us to become increasingly aware of the situation and to try to adjust as much as possible. But what if, despite great efforts, at the end of the month, money is still running out to cover one or two regular life - expenses bills? The last one accumulates more and more from month to month and the problem has already arisen. The Government has also approached such a broader solution to the problem. We have been given a clear assurance that activities in this area have been going on intensively for some time, for which we believe in the Desus Group that the affected will bring at least a handful of hope, that is a new opportunity to start. The Desus Group supports the principles of the social state and consequently actively approaches to solving social problems. We believe that matters need to be dealt with in a thorough and effective manner. The latter is precisely an important reason why the members of the Desus Group on the home working body voted in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The position of the entire parliamentary group is the same. We estimate that the Government has made greater efforts to find appropriate solutions based on direct information and experience from the practice itself, and this is precisely what we consider to be a much more credible argument. It is necessary to listen to each individual and to take into account the alarming signals coming out of the field. It's not enough to pass a law that's stuck on a theoretical basis. In the Desus Group, we think it is very important that we also take other measures to start the economy. First of all, these are new jobs and the preservation of existing ones. Increased productivity is the only solution that will solve the problem of accumulated debt and act preventively. This aspect is also very important that we do not write off debts just once, and the matter is closed. We need to be very careful, because debts can accumulate very quickly again. Therefore, our key consideration remains to the proposed law that it is a short-term solution, not a long-term system regime. We are aware that it will take a lot of effort not to see citizens and citizens again in a hopeless situation. The debt write-off in the manner proposed by the Government is only a first step, but we want it to be as successful as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u45	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thanks again for saying that. A nice welcome on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we welcome the well-intention of the proposal for a single debt write-off law! The fact is that the consequences of the economic and financial crisis – this is a global economic and financial crisis – have also greatly affected the people of Slovenia, and the very long-standing economic crisis has consequences for the social situation of our people. We note that the budget already provides almost 1.2 billion per year for social transfers. Slovenia's response to the economic and financial crisis was somehow in the spirit of financial expectations, if I may say so. Social rights in particular have been reduced, and the Public Finance Balance Act is one of those that has dramatically intervened in the position of people in order to balance public finances. On the other hand, we have invested a lot of money in recapitalising banks in order to encourage economic growth by banks and to provide new jobs and thus improve the situation of people in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the response from the banks did not happen in a way that would encourage the financing of the economy or the lending of the economy, and at this point the situation is very critical, and we note that the well-intention of this law is still important. We point out, however, that in the future the situation can worsen for us precisely because, at this meeting, the National Assembly passed a law on the deregulation of trade professions. It's about 100,000 people working in a trading system. The risk of lowering labour rights is thus significantly greater than before, and finding loopholes for a smaller payment will certainly be one of the major challenges of capital. So we want to actually see a solution that the Ministry of Labour has also indicated by preparing an agreement that will be concluded with different creditors, which will clearly, accurately define the purpose of the write-off, the procedure, the amount of the assets written off, and the deadlines and beneficiaries for the enforcement of the write-off. Therefore, a broader social consensus on debt write-off is needed, as the fact is that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor is already governed by the Bond Code, which speaks of debt write-off being possible on the basis of an agreement between the two. Unfortunately, the Bond Code does not specifically refer to the criteria to be met. The same applies to the single debt write-off law, which is currently under consideration and which we find inappropriate for further consideration precisely because this law also does not provide clear criteria for an arbitrary decision on who will be repaid and whose debt will not be repaid. Similarly, the law does not have a procedure designed to allow someone who is wronged to try to do so in court. Therefore, this moment is a very appropriate decision indeed to try to reach an agreement. However, if this agreement does not succeed, I think that it is still necessary to consider taking into account the very good warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service to this law, in order to draw up a new text of the debt write-off law in the event of a possible failure, which will be more clearly cleared, and in particular will have clearer criteria for which the debt write-offs can be made, what will be the procedure, and how will we prevent arbitral decision-making, to whom the debt is written off and to whom no debt is due. The content of the proposed law is certainly extremely welcome because we have also received significantly more information from a legal system than we would otherwise have spoken only on the basis of the already valid Bond Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u48	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left on 23 January 2015, we submitted a request to convene an urgent meeting of the two competent committees, by which we proposed that the Government set up a special group, following the example of Croatia, to join negotiations with telecoms, energy and utilities, banks, state authorities, municipalities and companies owned by municipalities, on the basis of which partial or complete write-offs of the outstanding obligations of the most vulnerable groups of people in Slovenia will be possible. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, felt that we did not need such a solution because we have a personal bankruptcy institute and the possibility of being able to repay tax debts. The meeting was also attended by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Mrs Martina Vuk, who presented the existing rights from public funds and added that "excellent legal assistance is intended for those who cannot pay, who have some costs which they cannot pay from their own income or who have incurred these costs due to a higher force or natural disaster". Of course, the coalition did not adopt the proposed conclusions; they should be too specific and concrete. In line with this explanation of the largest coalition party in the United Left, we prepared a concrete solution and, in April, we submitted a proposal for a single debt write-off law to the legislative procedure. Recently, we have heard from the Government many times how the situation in Slovenia is improving, how economic indicators are increasingly positive and how the results of its work are already showing. Of course, government representatives forget to say that while economic indicators have been positive for some time now, social indicators are still extremely negative. However, there is no evidence of a change in this negative trend. Only some benefit from GDP growth, while those who have paid the tax of the crisis without their own fault are in an increasingly difficult situation. Statistics don't lie. The number of children and households living below the poverty line has increased and the risk of poverty has increased year after year. 35% of households that are struggling with the month, the second largest increase in poverty in the EU area, between 2012 and 2013 55,000 children below the poverty line – these are data that clearly indicate that action needs to be taken. And the proposal we have drawn up in the United Left is certainly a measure that represents at least the first step towards changing negative trends. The expectations we are hearing today are totally rejected, as we have corrected all the shortcomings in the proposal with the amendments. Also talking about the start of the economy and jobs, I'm sorry, is here, in this place inappropriate and empty, because this is a very long process and at a time when the government will accidentally succeed, for many it is already too late, respected. This sounds more like a pre-election promise and a fluke than the concrete work of today's government. This would allow legal persons, by simple procedure, to cancel their debts to the most vulnerable groups without additional costs. In the United Left, we are appalled by the coalition's conduct in handling the bill. After a constructive discussion at a meeting of the competent Commission of the State Council, where our proposal was unanimously adopted, a cold shower awaited us at the competent committee of the National Assembly. Without discussion, without a valid argument, it was entirely undemocratic and beyond the rules of procedure that it was decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration, since it should not contain all the necessary elements, which is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which both the President of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure agree. However, the debate on the Committee was made possible by the Minister of Labour, who promised that the first steps towards debt write-off would be taken by the end of this month and that the debts should be written off to the poorest by the end of September. At the date of the Board’s disputed meeting, the Minister has already sent write-off proposals to companies and municipalities. Even though we feel that our proposal is more comprehensive, we are pleased that this action will come after six months of negotiations. As we have repeatedly stressed, it is important that debt write-offs occur and that we begin to resolve the serious social hardships of people, regardless of who the bill is. However, we will look at the ministers under our fingertips, and if it does not come to that in September, we will re- table our proposal in the autumn. This time, however, we expect our proposal to receive fair treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u49	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u50	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! A few days ago, at a joint meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we discussed the recommendations of the European Commission concerning the 2015 National Reform Programme and received a document from the European Commission services entitled Country Report – Slovenia 2015 as part of the consideration of these recommendations. In this report, a hundred pages wide, I think, on the 65th page, that Slovenia is still below the average of the European Union, while worrying about the trend in this area, as poverty has been steadily growing since 2009 in Slovenia. The number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion reached 410 000 in 2013. So 410 thousand people live in poverty or social exclusion. This is more than 20% of the Slovenian population, says more than one fifth. This is also said by Gini's coefficient, which says that Slovenian society is a very egalitarian society – egalitarian in poverty. One of the important factors that has affected the rise in poverty in the country in addition to the economic crisis is the abolition of so-called state pensions or the classification of them as social security benefits. The legal basis for the abolition of state pensions was the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. This law has also led to a reduction in the use of social security benefits by older beneficiaries as it has introduced a return on the security allowances provided that the beneficiary has any assets. The reform of the system of social security benefits that the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources is intended to bring in particular to prevent abuses in this area without reducing the social security of the population. In fact, the new system for granting social security benefits has led to a higher rate of poverty and has therefore not achieved its intended objective. The minor corrections made to this law over the past years have not rectified the general trend of the increase in poverty. In Novi Slovenije we have repeatedly stressed that the current system of social security benefits is not adequate, in particular very opaque, administratively demanding, because it is extremely complex. Most importantly, the most eligible social security benefits are not achieved at all. A more comprehensive reform of social protection legislation will therefore be needed. A single write-off is a one-off measure. We Christian Democrats believe that such actions are necessary at this time, given the social situation of many beneficiaries and their security, but the legal basis for such solutions must be added to the extent that only those who are actually entitled to such measures will receive such assistance, which is certainly not the case. Christian Democrats give priority to systemic measures that will enable decent survival, a decent payment for honest work to the largest possible number of citizens. In the first place, survival must be provided to an individual with the benefit of his or her own work, so that the earnings, including the minimum wage, must be such as to ensure a decent life for the individual and his or her entire family, if he or she has it. In New Slovenia or Christian Democrats, we advocate that all citizens have a fair opportunity to earn their profits, i.e. a solid and efficient economy, which is the best social policy. Yes, the best social policy is the policy that creates new jobs. Those who unfortunately cannot help themselves are elderly, sick and socially neglected and must receive social assistance in accordance with the principle of solidarity. We also stress the need to incorporate social policy instruments into the entire legislative system, housing, tax, family, health, pension and disability, and other legislation. We agreed and agree with the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u51	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Your Honor! A long time ago, the solution offered to our citizens by our Croatian neighbours and reported to the media has also given us an interest. We have studied with interest the Croatian agreement, not the law, the agreement reached on one side by the Croatian government and, on the other hand, the creditors regarding the debt write-off of the socially weak. In the Alliance Group as well as the applicants, we believe that the long-term economic crisis, along with austerity measures, has helped to increase the number of people close to or below the poverty threshold. So today we are witnessing tragic stories about hungry children, about children whose parents cannot even provide basic goods. I'm not even going to talk about vacations and other leisure activities. Daily we witness stories about the elderly who are fed only in human kitchens or about the elderly who are dependent on the financial assistance of their children, since pensions have long been insufficient to pay basic obligations. Daily we can track tragic stories from our immediate neighborhood about families who, due to a few hundred euros of debt, are subject to jobs and rubble and are thus pushed over the social edge. Even because of these or, above all, of such stories, which we regret to witness daily, we have examined with all due care the solutions they have drawn up in Croatia. Unfortunately, Croatian solutions cannot just be transferred into our legal order. As has already been said, it is a three-party agreement between the state, the creditor and the debtor. It is therefore an agreement that has built-in volunteerism in its foundation. This is therefore the first difference between the Croatian debt write-off and the proposed law. The institute of personal bankruptcy must be further highlighted. However, bankruptcy proceedings are a procedure that lasts for an average duration of three years and at that time is granted to the debtor by the bankruptcy manager. The latter manages both the assets and the debtor's income, all with a view to making the creditors pay as much as possible. I would like to remind you that, not long ago, the financial burden placed on the individual to initiate bankruptcy proceedings is precisely the case, with a view to allowing as many individuals as possible to begin the procedure. During the duration of the bankruptcy procedure, although it is a relatively long period, there are no shares and no assets laundering. The bill tabled by the United Left Group for consideration is welcome, but in our view the dimension of the area to be regulated is too wide for the law to be adequately addressed by the Member State. It is ultimately up to the government to deal with all its resources and mechanisms in the first place. It is in the interest of all of us to prepare solutions that will in practice produce results, and it is not irrelevant to protect creditors so that abuses do not occur. Some of the solutions were therefore inconceivable by the Legislative and Legal Service, which expressed many concerns in its opinion. If I finish. We are in favour of the ideas and objectives presented by the proposal for a single debt write-off law in the parliamentary group. We are convinced that action is urgently necessary here, so we also call on the Government and the competent ministry to prepare and present the promised solutions as soon as possible. We will closely and critically monitor the Government's activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u53	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u54	Dear President, Honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the SMC Group, we are aware of the problem that is being addressed by the proposed single debt write-off law, and we understand that for many citizens and citizens, every day is a step further than those of fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have fallen into a spiral of acute situations, unfortunate webs of circumstances, increasingly difficult decisions and unbearable consequences. With regard to the law proposed by the United Left Group, a number of questions have been raised both for us and for other parliamentary parties, for the Government and for the Rule of Law. From the definitions and obligations imposed to those who are expected to write off debts and to anticipate the financial implications of the action in practice, to the new powers of the authorities, the processing of applications, information support and others. We have considered questions and concerns so serious that, in our view, we would not be able to adapt the follow-up process in a way that would ensure the achievement of the objectives and contribute to the improvement of the situation. In the SMC programme, we have set ourselves a number of goals in the area of improving the social situation of the population, which in due course would lead to a situation where there would be no one else under the poverty threshold and thus to the decent life of the most vulnerable groups of the population. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is actively preparing a number of solutions in an area which it is trying to address to a limited extent – an agreement between the various stakeholders on the joint and simultaneous write-off of debts or claims owed to families by their landlords, local self-government, municipal companies and energy suppliers, banks and the state. We expect this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, municipalities, companies and humanitarian organisations to be signed in short. We have also received this assurance from the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Mrs Anje Kopač Mrak, to whom we urge Members of the SMC to make further efforts to ensure that the expected agreement is put into effect at the shortest possible time. We are also looking forward to the announced solutions in the area of assistance to those who are threatened with forced eviction or who have already been displaced, as their problems are already becoming a national disgrace. Furthermore, we are also looking forward to concrete solutions in the area of bank costs in the implementation of enforcement decisions, as well as solutions that could be brought by the announced prepaid cards intended exclusively for remittances of financial social assistance, a protective allowance, a child allowance for recipients of cash social assistance and state grants. Your Honor! For all of this we will support in the SMC Group the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u55	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u56	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned about the decline in living standards, about the increase in unemployment in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the problem facing more and more residents of the Republic of Slovenia. However, something needs to be highlighted in this regard. Between 2004 and 2008, these problems were not as big as they are today. In the mandate of the Government of Janez Janša between 2004 and 2008, Slovenia recorded the lowest unemployment rate. It has recorded the highest economic growth, above average in the European Union. On one occasion in history, Slovenia had a budget that reflected surplus. That was in 2007. Then came the government of Borut Pahor, then came the government of Alenka Bratušek, and now the government of Mir Cerar. The standard of living of Slovenk and Slovenes began to fall dramatically. On the one hand, the proposal made by the United Left could be justified. On the other hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Government of Mir Cerar should make sure that such events and problems in Slovenia do not occur. For in view of the work of the Government of Mir Cerar, which has not yet come to the National Assembly with any law that would allow higher standards to allow for higher economic growth, we will not solve this problem. In view of the current work of the Government of Mir Cerar, if such a law were to be adopted, it would probably be a one-off decision within six months, but this law should be repeated for one year. That is why we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of Social Democrats and Desus must assume responsibility and finally start to do as the Constitution dictates, and for which you also have the confidence of the electorate and the electorate. Because so far the work of the Government of Mir Cerar will only make things worse in Slovenia and we will be able to have such a bill as proposed by the United Left in the National Assembly again within six months or one year. Only through systemic measures, by developing the economy, by increasing economic growth and opening up new jobs will we be able to resolve this problem that we have on the table today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware of all these problems, but we are convinced that it is the task of the Government to prevent poverty in Slovenia and to ensure a better standard of living for all. Dear representatives of the United Left, I think we must act together as the opposition against this in order to make these things change in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u57	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, one hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law extending the transitional period in the field of the free movement of nationals of the Republic of Croatia and their members within the framework of the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law extending the transitional period in the area of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members introduces a three-year transitional period for the employment and work of Croatian citizens in Slovenia after the entry of Croatia into the European Union. Thus, citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia will be able to take up employment on the basis of provisions governed by the Employment and Work Act, which otherwise apply to third-country nationals. The restrictions arising from the transitional period only apply to the free movement of workers, while in the area of the free movement of services and the right to establish a company established in the Republic of Croatia, citizens of the Republic of Croatia enjoy full rights as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to extend the transitional period due to the face of structural unemployment, as the OECD and the European Commission also point out, due to the high unemployment of the under-educated. In addition, the age group of the unemployed in Slovenia in the age category 30 to 39 is increasing and has reached almost 24% by the end of 2014 and March 2015. This is also the structure of Croatian citizens who became the most employed in Slovenia after 2013. The activation of Slovenian unemployed persons is necessary, so we believe that the labour market control institute should be maintained to allow Croatian citizens and other family members to enter the Slovenian labour market. The basic solutions to the law are as follows. The bill regulates only the new employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who enter the Slovenian labour market for the first time or do not live in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of application of the law. Nationals of the Republic of Croatia and their family members will be able to work for any purpose only on the basis of a valid employment permit. After two years of permanent legal residence in the Republic of Slovenia, citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have the right to free access to the Slovenian labour market. The work will be carried out by citizens of the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also important to point out the following. The process of granting a work permit is very simplified, as it is proposed that access to the labour market is crucial that there are no adequate unemployed persons in our country in the unemployment register. In the field of legal certainty, in the case of employment, there is an obligation to include in compulsory social security insurance, and deadlines are set for inclusion in social security and sanctions in the event of non-compliance with those deadlines. To date, it has been considered that, before the issue of the work permit, the verification was not only a review of the labour market but also a thorough verification of the fulfilment of the employer’s conditions. This is now facilitated and particularly reviewed by the registration of the employer who issues an application for authorisation and the control of the labour market is crucial. So, within the existing regulation, we are still simplifying the possibility of access. However, in the interests of Slovenia, especially our unemployed persons, regardless of their desire to completely relax the labour market, the Government has decided to propose the next three-year period, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on European Union. However, we want the reasons led by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be removed as soon as possible to propose an extension of this transitional period. When these conditions are not met, the Government will proceed to the immediate abolition, if I say so, of the provisions of this law and the desire to release the Slovenian labour market for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a law extending the transitional period in the area of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members was also informed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons at its 13th session. 6. 2015 as a parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its meeting of 8. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis and that the Committee should therefore consider it on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Council of State and trade unions participated in the meeting of the committee, as stated. Amendments were tabled within the time limit, namely amendments to Articles 1, 2, 6 and 9 of the coalition groups and the Joint Left Group to Articles 2 and 10. At the Committee's own meeting, it was pointed out that the main reason for the draft law was to protect the Slovenian labour market from free employment and the work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia after Croatia's entry into the EU. Despite the fact that the situation in the Slovenian labour market is, thank God, slightly better than it was in 2013, and that the forecasts for the coming period suggest a positive trend in economic growth and employment, caution is still needed, especially since Slovenia, as pointed out by both the OECD and the European Commission, is facing so-called structural unemployment, a large proportion of low-educated unemployed and low-level employment. In addition, the age group of the unemployed between 30th and 39th years in Slovenia is increasing and has reached almost 24% by the end of 2014. This is also the structure of Croatian citizens who became employed in Slovenia after 2013. It is necessary, as has already been said, to activate Slovenian unemployed persons, so it is necessary to maintain the labour market control institute for the access of Croatian citizens and their family members to the Slovenian labour market. Although the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia has declined significantly over the past two years, this is also due to the crisis facing Slovenia. In the last two years, however, the employment of Croatian citizens has been reduced by about 1.5%, which can also be attributed to the introduction of the transitional period in 2013. As a result, on the other hand, the number of posted workers from Croatia has increased since there are no restrictions on the free movement of services. In the context of the debate, several questions and concerns were raised regarding the extension of the period of free employment of Croatian citizens. Among other things, the question was raised whether this proposal discriminated against Croatian citizens in relation to other foreigners. The explanation was that there is no case of discrimination against Croatian citizens against anyone. In the report and the material you received, you also have a longer explanation of how the discussion took place, how someone defined individual points or amendments. The Committee adopted the following amendments after the discussion. The amendments of the Desus, SD and SMC coalition groups were adopted by Articles 1, 2, 6 and 9. However, the Committee did not accept the amendments of the United Left to Articles 2 and 10. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, as I have already said, has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of the report you have received. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u62	Dear Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We have before us the proposal for a law extending the transitional period in the area of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members, which we will support in the Group of Social Democrats. The bill extends the two-year transitional period for the employment and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia for a further three years, up to 30 years. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The measure introduced in 2013 to protect the labour market for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia has not changed anything, nor will it be in the coming years. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia will also be able to work in the coming years only on the basis of a valid work permit, as so far. Good relations with neighbouring countries are very important for the Social Democrats, so they need to be strengthened all the time and to strive for the best possible cooperation. The introduction of measures, including the proposal for the extension of the transitional period in the area of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members, must be well weighed and justified by data showing that the situation in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia, despite improvements, is still not optimal, meaning that the termination of the transitional period for the employment of Croatian citizens in Slovenia could have a significant impact on the labour market situation in Slovenia. Therefore, the extension of the transitional period is justified and, under the circumstances, also necessary. We are aware that free movement is one of the fundamental freedoms of the European Union, but the situation in the Slovenian labour market is unfortunately worrying. Despite the decline in the number of unemployed, there are still over 100,000, so it is right to protect the Slovenian labour market by first allowing the employment of citizens and citizens of our country. The forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development for the coming year are encouraging, but until the situation on the labour market is significantly improved, it is reasonable that this measure should be extended for a further three years. The unemployment rate in our neighbors is high. In the event of free access to the Slovenian labour market, unemployed Croatian citizens are entitled to all the types of assistance provided by the Employment Office to Slovenian citizens, i.e. active employment policy programmes, including those financed by the European Social Fund. In these already difficult situations, we believe that it is right to give priority to employment and work to domestic unemployed people. Even at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, most so-called old Member States introduced a transitional period for Slovenian workers, although the economic situation at the time was significantly different. For example, neighbouring Austria and Germany applied for Slovenia for the entire seven-year transitional period, which lasted until 30 April 2011. The protection of our citizens and our workers is the right and duty of our country, so in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello! In the United Left, we will not support the bill. Restricting the free employment of Croatian citizens is economically unjustifiable and politically and ethically unacceptable. First, it must be made clear that the cause of high unemployment in Slovenia is not Croatian workers. Croatian workers are also not to blame for not finding work in Croatia. The reason for unemployment in Europe is not the free movement of people, but the free movement of capital. The free movement of capital creates competition with countries that are gravely violating labour rights. The free movement of capital is the reason for the lack of investment in the European Union in general and especially in countries such as Slovenia and Croatia. The free movement of capital into tax havens, which, by the way, are mostly colonial territories of the members of the European Union, also reduces investment and employment in Europe. However, the fact is that the European Union prohibits free movement at every step and no one should restrict the free movement of capital. This says a lot about the relationship between work and capital in the European Union. The fear of the Croatian workers flooding Slovenia is over. Today we have about 4 000 500 posted workers from Croatia who are not subject to employment restrictions. If they were allowed to work directly with Slovenian companies, the total number of Croatian workers would not increase significantly, but in this way they would improve the situation of Croatian posted workers, because we know that the most illegal exploitation is in the case of posted workers. It is also known that Austria and Germany have for seven years limited the employment of citizens of new members, including Slovenians, and this has rightly felt unfair to us. Now that we are alone in the same position, we do not know this injustice. The standard in these countries is not substantially improved compared to Germany and Austria at this time; unemployment is inadequately higher than in Germany and Austria. However, in 2011, when the restrictions fell, there was no disaster. In Germany the unemployment rate was 10.3% in 2004; in 2010 only 7 more; in 2011, when quotas fell, it decreased to 5.8, last year to 5. Thus, Eastern European workers have not eaten the work of the Germans, just as the Croatians will not eat it of the Slovenians. Even if Croatian workers were in fact disputing Slovenian, for which the Government had not submitted any evidence, the rights of Croatian workers should still be respected. Croatian workers are traditionally connected to Slovenia due to proximity, language and common history. Employment restrictions would be justified only if all other means of reducing unemployment in Slovenia were exhausted. This government didn't exhaust them by any chance. On the contrary, it continues its policy of reducing public sector employment and saving, which reduces demand and thus employment in the market sector. This government continues to privatise, although it is clear that privatisation brings forgiveness to parent companies and suppliers. This government, which had no backbone to prevent the sale of Slovenian companies, has no moral right to prevent Croatian citizens from working freely in Slovenia for the next three years. I am afraid that the same xenophobic logic is at work, which caused the Government to reject on Tuesday the European Commission's proposal to accept refugees from North Africa. The government refers to the security aspect, which practically means that Slovenian refugee policy is based on prejudices towards foreigners. Similarly, this law is based on stereotypes that foreigners consume the work of Slovenian workers. This is not our logic, so we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u66	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia implemented national legislation or measures under bilateral agreements, where it did not introduce greater freedom of freedom of movement in the labour market. A two-year transitional period has been imposed, which is extended for a further three years. Prior to the expiry of the first two years or before the start of the next three-year period, each such Member State must inform the European Commission of the situation on its labour market whether it will continue to apply national legislation or enforce the free movement of workers. For a further two years of the transitional period, the current Member States can only apply their national legislation in cases of serious disturbances or threats to the labour market. Germany and Austria are now using this option. The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, among the first to warn the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the need to protect the domestic labour market by implementing a transitional period for the employment and work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia after the entry of neighbouring Croatia into the European Union. Croatia's entry into the European Union will benefit Croatia and Slovenia in the long term. Nevertheless, Christian Democrats support the proposal for an extended transitional period for the employment and work of Croatian citizens, as it is the right and duty of each country to protect its citizens first. We estimate that the situation in the labour market in Slovenia is still acute. The number of unemployed is not significantly decreasing due to insufficient and ineffective measures by the Government. For the next three years, we believe that the domestic labour market needs to be protected by the implementation of the transitional period. The Christian Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The main reason for preparing the bill is to protect the Slovenian market from free employment and the work of citizens of the Republic of Croatia after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. The Government considers that the extension of the transitional period after 1 July for a further three years is recommended and justified. We will not support the bill in the Alliance, irrespective of the fact that we have been members of the Government, which, at the proposal of the competent ministry at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union in 2013, decided to apply a transitional period of two years for the employment of Croatian citizens. The same fear was shared with us by 13 other Member States. Data on labour market trends in 2014 show that this fear was inside the hotel and that there was nothing about it. We also find it absurd that even Slovenian trade unions call on us to renounce the transitional period, referring to a report from the European Commission stating that there is no greater influx of Croatian workers into other Member States of the European Union, and thus no disruption in the labour market in the future. As can be seen from the report, the mobility of the Croatian labour force was relatively low following the accession of the European Union in July 2013. The largest number of Croatian migrant workers has been found in Germany and Austria, despite their restrictions on entry into their labour market. Germany hosts 68% of all migrant workers from Croatia and Austria hosts 17%. In the 14 Member States of the European Union, which have fully opened their labour markets, the presence of Croatian workers has only increased by a slight. The mobility of Croatian workers, according to the European Commission at a low level, will continue to remain in the future, so that the major shocks contained in this title in the labour markets of the Member States of the European Union, even though the restrictions will be lifted, is not expected. At the meeting of the home committee, we were able to hear from the representatives of the Government that, regardless of favourable trends, data on the current state of play should be neglected and what the release of free movement would mean in advance. That is why I will also give the figures again: at the end of 2014, there were 806 thousand 777 people working, of whom there were 5 per cent or more than 4 thousand employees of Croats. Croatia's employment trend is also negative. Employment fell after the transition period. As early as 2012, and before the entry into the European Union, there were more than 5,000 500. It is therefore absurd to say that the free movement will collapse the Slovenian labour market. Let me tell you about the illustration that there are three times as many Slovenian employees in Austria as there are Croatians in Slovenia. We do not understand why we continue the same logic as the Slovenians did in the event of restrictions on access to the Austrian labour market. Do you remember how we reacted at the time and claimed that we had been wronged? We have also heard from the representatives of the Government on the Committee that, unlike the permits granted to third-country nationals for Croatia, we will introduce special rules during the transitional period. The late deadline for the adoption of the law is due to the fact that, through our embassies in the Member States of the European Union, we have been monitoring, which of the countries will also extend the transitional period. So, we are witnessing typical Slovenian stories: before we tell our neighbor that he is temporarily unwanted, we will wait for the remaining neighbors to respond; but so that we do not get too angry with him, we will later explain to him that there is no reason to complain, because we will look at him through his fingers or we will be more forgiving than the other neighbors. Therefore, in the Alliance, we believe that there are no valid reasons for extending this transitional period of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u70	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The right to movement and residence of workers and the right to the entry and permanent residence of their family members in addition to the right to work in another Member State of the European Union and to equal treatment as citizens of the latter State constitute one of the four freedoms of the European Union Single Market. Some countries have introduced restrictions on employment for nationals of the Member States who have recently entered the European Union, but for justified reasons. Similarly, at the time of the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, some other members introduced a transitional period for Slovenian workers, although the economic situation in these countries and especially the situation in the labour market were better at that time than in Slovenia today. Austria has thus fully implemented a seven-year transitional period for Slovenia. Slovenia today, like some other members of the European Union, protects domestic unemployed and maintains a certain degree of caution despite good economic forecasts and improvements in the labour market in the last year. The proposal for a law extending the transitional period in the area of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members aims to ensure the stable functioning of the Slovenian labour market and introduces the next three-year transitional period for the employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Slovenia until 30 June 2018. It should be pointed out that the draft law regulates only new jobs and only access to the Slovenian labour market on the basis of the work permit obtained. The measure may also be terminated at any time if the conditions for this are met. According to data from the Employment Office and the Statistical Office of Slovenia, both export demand and domestic consumption have increased in the last year, which is expected to continue in the future, but not without an increase in the available income. It is also seen that investment and private consumption are strengthened and the cost competitiveness of the Slovenian economy improved. However, when we are talking about numbers in the Slovenian labour market, we also need to look at the broader context that these figures introduce. By the end of May this year, around 2 000 500 and 2.2% of the registered unemployed were less than in April this year, while unemployment was less than 6% compared to May 2014. Also from the point of view of newly registered unemployed persons, a minimal improvement is detected in the Employment Office's records, with 7.1% fewer individuals registered in the first five months of the year than last year. However, if we look at the numbers that reflect the relationship between supply and demand in the labour market, they show us a different picture. In May this year, 18.9% fewer individuals than in April and 21.4% less than in April 2014 registered unemployed persons for employment or self-employment. In addition, Slovenia faces structural unemployment, a large proportion of low-educated unemployed and a low level of low-educated employment. The age group of the unemployed between the ages of 30 and 39 is increasing in Slovenia. At the end of 2014, it reached 24% as well as May 2015. At the same time, this age structure also represents the structure of Croatian citizens who became employed in Slovenia after 2013. At the same time, we cannot go beyond the fact that Croatia is among the 14 countries of the European Union that record more emigration than immigration. At the end of 2012, about 12,000 were displaced and in 2013 about 15 000 were displaced. According to data from the Croatian Employment Service, the number of persons employed abroad from the register registered at the institution in the first 11 months of 2014 reached 3 000 400, of which there were good thousands of young people aged up to 29 years. The interpretation of all the above data reminds us of the need to maintain caution on the Slovenian labour market. In the SMC Group, we believe that there are legitimate reasons for extending the transitional period in the field of employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u72	Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a law extending the transitional period in the area of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members. It is a matter of extending the transitional period necessary as a safeguard measure for the Slovenian labour market, to which the Republic of Croatia has agreed in the course of the negotiations for entry into the European Union. In an additional transitional period, nothing will change for workers from Croatia. Due to the extension of the transitional period, Croatian workers will not be worse off. The data provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia show that in the Republic of Slovenia workers are becoming increasingly difficult in those age groups that represent the highest demand for Croatian citizens. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party as a safeguard measure of employment on the Slovenian labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! To begin with, in the previous term, the Desus Group unanimously supported the first two-year period of the moratorium on employment and work of Croatian citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. It should also be recalled that all 76 then present Members voted in favour of the law. As the first part of the seven-year transitional period expires at the end of this month, during which Member States of the European Union may limit the free movement of labour for acceding citizens when entering the new Member States, the European Commission should be informed of any further extension of the measure. The introduction of measures, as proposed by this Act, must be considered well and should be based on a well-founded analysis of the situation which requires such measures, which Desus believes was also done. Our government has estimated that there are still legitimate reasons in the country for us to continue to apply our national legislation to the employment of Croatian citizens. It follows from the data presented by the applicant that, despite the better economic situation and the slightly more optimistic situation in the labour market, caution is still needed. It takes into account the worrying situation on the market in the neighbouring country and the resulting migration in the last two years of at least 50,000 Croatian citizens to the Member States of the European Union, it is likely that, according to the information we have, more than half of the European Union countries will extend the transitional period. In our Group of Members, we note that there is also an important difference between the first transitional period and what we are now applying for the next three years, as this time the bill allows for a few exceptions, in a flexible direction of employment. This is not about justifying a free movement for a full period of three years, but Croatian citizens will only have to be employed in the first two years of legal residence on the basis of a valid employment permit. Furthermore, exceptions are foreseen for certain categories of persons such as highly educated personnel. The bill is also considered and coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which agreed that the proposed measure should not jeopardise good neighbourly relations and the continued effectiveness of economic cooperation between countries. The Desus Group will unanimously support the proposed solutions, as it is our assessment that we do not endanger the normal functioning of the Slovenian labour market or that, at least in the first few years of recovery after a long crisis, we do not allow too quickly to exercise our hands, and we believe that it is better that we continue to give priority to employment and thus economic and social security to domestic unemployed people for some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. I give my word to Mr. Micha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u76	President, thank you for your word. Before I go to our amendment, I will make one bow concerning the context that we are discussing today, about employment and this. What we have before us is really not based on anything. The economic assumptions of this law are in no way valid and are in fact merely an ideology that is strongly rooted in European nationalist parties and has also begun to move into the legal order of all European countries. Croatian workers do not in any way endanger the Slovenian labour market, nor do they take any work or bread from Slovenian citizens who are on the labour market. These are completely xenophobic stereotypes and some assumptions, but they are in no way based on any reality. We can actually confirm that. One such practical example is Germany. Following the enlargement of the European Union in 2004, Germany banned Eastern European workers from entering the labour market for seven years. Before this restriction was released in 2011, the unemployment rate in Germany was 7%. This is the 2010 data. In 2011, after these restrictions passed away, this percentage of the unemployed fell to 5.8% last year and this figure was only 5%. What I want to say is that, in fact, there is no direct link between home unemployment and foreign employment. That's just not true. This could be someone today and someone who's ever said it out loud before. A few of these implicit assumptions have already been seen from the viewpoints and also some preliminary discussions, but it is here to be said out loud that this is simply not true. Some of these assumptions are based on the whole European Union policy, which strongly encourages and protects the free movement of capital, which thus leads to a competitive struggle of each country, in particular the countries of the European periphery that are forced into a race, the race to the bottom that does not have winners, and the countries are competing in this race in which they will lower their labour rights more and more. On the other hand, it strives to limit the freedom of movement of citizens to all sorts of scruples. The conflict we are facing here is not domestic workers against foreign workers, but it is a conflict between work and capital. A very simple illustration: today we are dealing with and asking what is happening with these Croatian workers, while Mercator was resold to a capitalist, the great Croatian tycoon. We gave it to Agrokor, who has now announced that he will fire 90 additional people, and there are also speculations in the public that this number will go on a substantial, substantial scale. And here they explain to us how it is necessary to protect the Slovenian worker and protect the Slovenian labour market precisely those people who have made it possible. The same people who have advocated deregulation of the trade profession a few days ago, which we know will only bring more competitive dynamics among employees and will not lead to anything positive in the trade sector, but only to the reduction of labour rights. This story about the protection of the Slovenian labour market is sold to us by the same people, who militarily, fanatically advocate the logic of privatisation, which leads to mass forgiveness, to a deterioration of the quality of living, to the deterioration of the standard of living of the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and so on. Therefore, in the United Left for these factual reasons and for these principled reasons, we are certainly opposed to these changes. As far as our amendment is concerned, this is at some point an attempt to patch up a situation that is otherwise imported, or a proposal that is already so wrong. As far as Article 2 and our amendment are concerned, this article lays down exceptions to certain categories of Croatian citizens who do not need to be authorised to work but have the same status as foreigners with permanent residence or European and Slovenian citizens. According to the government proposal, this exception applies to those Croatian citizens who have received at least higher education in Slovenia in the last two years. What we are proposing in the United Left is that this benefit extend also to Croatian citizens who have obtained vocational and secondary education. We often hear in public that we have allegedly over-educated people and that we lack welders and similar profiles, while also releasing exceptions in highly-educated people, but not in people with some lower education. This is totally unjustifiable and reckless, so we have tabled this amendment of ours and we call on everyone to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This law does not impose any additional restrictions on Croatian citizens and their entry into the labour market. Taking into account the proposal for a law on the employment and self-employment of foreigners, there will be much less administrative obstacles to the search for work permits and residence, as this will be combined into a single procedure and a single permit. Due to the structural data on our labour market, due to the specific structure of the unemployed in our country, that most unemployed are under-educated and that a large proportion of the unemployed are under-39 years old, up to 24%, and because on the other hand there is a similar picture of Croatian citizens seeking work in a similar structure being less educated and up to 39 years old, it is nevertheless good to maintain some control due to these similarities. We support this control and stress that this control does not constitute a complete restriction on job search, as it is one of the fundamental freedoms. At the same time, we expect and believe that this structure and these characteristics of our unemployment will continue to change in the future and that they will stop the reasons why this control would still be necessary. In addition, I would stress that this extension of the restriction can be lifted at any time. As far as the amendment is concerned, I would stress that it is the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, that it employs a highly skilled workforce and that it is also in line with economic migration strategies. That's why we won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. She asked Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u80	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Perhaps an explanation for the proposed amendment to Article 2. Decisions which categories of foreigners, in the specific case of which categories of nationals of the Republic of Croatia and their family members will be eligible for free access to the Slovenian labour market, were based both in the past and today on adopted strategic documents in the field of migration policy. In this context, the economic migration strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2010 must be highlighted. The economic migration strategy is one of the key guidelines in shaping Slovenia's migration policy, including the promotion of highly skilled foreign workers and their greater mobility on the one hand, and the reduction of the risk of brain drain on the other. In addition, the solution in question, as contained in the proposal for a law, follows a scheme of solutions contained in the applicable regulation governing the employment and work of foreigners. This facilitated access to the Slovenian labour market ensures only those foreigners who have received at least higher education in the Republic of Slovenia in the last two years. The same arrangement also provides for a new law in this area, the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act, which you discussed yesterday. In view of the above and the fact that the amendment proposed by the United Left would have a negative impact on the situation on the labour market due to a significant increase in the number of foreigners who would no longer be subject to labour market control if they were hired, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the amendment does not follow the guidelines and principles of the adopted and established migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore opposes the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. That's all I want to point out. We were once again confronted, this time by the Government, by how some migrants from Croatia would bring destabilisation to the Slovenian labour market, and on similar matters, as Mrs Minister has just presented. Here I have a document that was previously referred to in the position of colleague Bon Klanjšček of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, and I will quote from him. Goes to document Commission report on transitional arrangements regarding free movement of workers from Croatia. Citima: "In Italy and Slovenia, the Croatian population also increases but at a smaller pace and there is no record of a rise in the number of those in employment." The following information tells us that even in the maximum scenario, the proportion of these people in us would increase by three promols of the Slovenian population. So that all this fear about what terrible competition Slovenian workers face from foreign workers from Croatia is simply not sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, it is known that Slovenian is an official language in the National Assembly, so I would ask for a second time. Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! No one is intimidated and no one claims that Croatian workers are guilty of the situation on the Slovenian labour market and unemployment in Slovenia, but the fundamental reason is to protect the Slovenian labour market and, above all, to maintain and establish its stable functioning. This only means that there will always be a preliminary review of the existence of the same staff in the unemployment register at the Employment Office, and if such personnel are not available in the Employment Office record, there will be no problem in order to prevent the Croatian citizen from obtaining work permits. This is a very simple procedure, but according to the situation on the labour market it is justified. It has also been noted for some time that the Ministry of Labour has a very large number of measures within the active employment policy, which are very successful and the results of which are showing. These are measures for young people, i.e. for persons under 30 years of age. However, the lack of measures aimed at the target group from 30 to 39, where the percentage of unemployment, as has already been said, reached 24%. It is this age group that is the most common among Croatian citizens. 89% of Croatian citizens looking for work in Slovenia are between the ages of 30 and 39 and men. Solidarity is very important and we are always for this, but protection of Slovenian citizens is also needed. Umar also predicts slow growth and recovery of the labour market, but only about 1% per year, which means that caution is still needed, and it is important to balance all the measures being implemented. At the same time, it might point out that the number of permits granted to Croatian citizens in recent years has actually declined, but it has fallen less than other groups or other foreign nationals. However, there has also been an increase in the number of posted workers from Croatia, and this means that it can be assumed that in the event of the full opening of the labour market, the exact number of job seekers from Croatia would be substantially increased, as in the case of the opening of the market with Romania and also with Bulgaria. The proposal for a law, including this has already been made, regulates only the new employment of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. those persons who have not yet done their jobs in Slovenia and who will only be employed in the first two years of legal residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a valid employment permit. Those already on the Slovenian market are not covered by this proposal. Of course, the desire of all of us is the same, and this is that the situation in the labour market should be rectified as soon as possible and that problems should not be solved in such ways. It was also pointed out that it is not necessary for the transitional period to apply all three years. If the indicators are positive, if all expectations go up the way we want them to, there is a chance that these measures will end prematurely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you, Chairman. Nice hello to you all! Every country, including the Republic of Slovenia, exists to take care of its citizens. This concern also involves setting up conditions for these citizens to be employed. In Slovenia we have seen better lately, all trends are going up. This is due to the fact that the political situation in Slovenia has finally stabilised. This is due to the fact that we have finally begun to fulfill certain commitments that we have made, and therefore we are perceived abroad as more credible, more credible people. This is also due to the fact that we still have excellent entrepreneurs, who are still doing well, exporting to markets that are also growing, looking for new markets. But despite all this, we still have a lot of unemployed people. As has already been said, we are facing structural unemployment in Slovenia. We have a large proportion of unemployed people with low education. We have 24% of the unemployed between the ages of 30 and 39, that's what 30-year-olds say, which is terrible. These are people who are no longer youthful and reckless, but still have a lot of energy, a lot of ideas, elana. But 24% of these people are sitting at home today. They don't have jobs. At this point, I'm going to define myself until the amendment. The problems we face in Slovenia are also due to the fact that in many areas we cannot decide what we want, where we want to go. But if we know where we're going, we don't know how to get there. Or, in other words, problems have also arisen because we do not have a strategy in many areas. But we do have it in this area. We have a strategy on economic migration. Until 2020, it was adopted in 2010, that is to say for 10 years. We have heard that this strategy is obsolete, that it is no longer based on any real data, but then the question arises, why do we place so much importance on having a strategy if, once this strategy does not fit us, we no longer want to hold or claim that it is no longer based on any facts, even though we have found today that this strategy still has a fact. In this strategy, we say that we want to hire people who are highly educated, highly qualified, because we still have enough of our citizens, those with low education, the unemployed. And if we were to accept this amendment, we would go against this strategy, which we believe is still in place. Finally, if at this time, let me say that in these three years – although then we can still extend this transitional period for two years, but I personally do not want to. I want the situation in Slovenia to be rectified so that we will no longer have to limit any more because our citizens will have enough jobs and enough work and we will be happy to accept the citizens of other countries, including Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u88	President, thank you for your word. I'll be quick. What did we just hear? On the part of the coalition, the fact that they are not intimidated by some I do not know what the destabilisation effects of emigration on the Slovenian labour market are, at the same time, explain the need to "protect the Slovenian labour market". In front of someone or something, I'm asking you. Yeah, apparently in front of some of the emigrant workers. This is a fear that some immigrant work or foreign workers would constitute some terrible destabilisation for the Slovenian labour market, which in fact does not. However, it represents a strong destabilisation effect of some other policy, such as privatisation policy. And this one leads to an end to development and leads to forgiveness. It's about a strategy that he's so happy to refer to. This strategy is nonsense, this strategy sucks, and if some paper has survived its usefulness, it must also be said in a loud voice. As far as highly educated people are concerned, I agree that it would be extremely nice if we had an economy based on knowledge that would largely employ highly educated citizens, but at the same time all your other policies and policies of your predecessors in charge of privatisation lead to the fact that our economy is subordinated, that our economy is trapped in some colonial dependence, that our economy is structured by subcontractors for some large multinationals, and they do not bring some added value and bring some extremely high-quality jobs that would require highly qualified and highly educated workers. So these flossules on your side simply don't drink water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues have a nice greeting! On this subject, one cannot add anything that is essential, but I would like to express my personal opinion. I must say that I strongly agree that the flow of labour should be unlimited. It is true, however, that Slovenia is still in a relatively difficult situation at the moment and we may need to protect the labour market in Slovenia for a certain transitional period. If there are times like those in the past, I must say that we will not have any problems. If we look at how many work permits have been issued — the last with this problem has little in common, but it can be comparable — we had 88 thousand 479 work permits in 2008. Compared to the number of unemployed in our country at this time, we can quickly estimate that we would almost have no more unemployed. At that time, in the labour market of some professions in Slovenia we simply could not get any more. Even with the influx of foreign labour, we did not provide sufficient numbers for the Slovenian economy at the time. But if we look at comparisons of how things went on – in 2013 we had only 21,000 more and in 2014 only 17,000 work permits for third-country workers. It is true, however, that the Republic of Croatia is a country with a lower standard of living and the interests of Croatian workers after work in the Republic of Slovenia – those coming from border areas can be seen that Croatian workers have worked in Slovenia in the past and will work in the future. But in a certain period ahead of us, this work is not yet realistically expected or is the protection of our labour market, employment in Slovenia. I must say that at our meeting with the Labour Committee, the family and so on – I do not know what is currently called in Croatia – we also discussed this issue, and I was convinced that the end, when we tried to explain our problems and problems to them, the representatives of this related committee from the Republic of Croatia also adopted our position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. There are solutions that are good, that are good, that are bad, that are less bad. I believe that this decision to extend the transitional period is unfortunately less than possible solutions. Personally, I would like not to need to extend this period, but to be able to relax measures in the field of the Slovenian labour market. Unfortunately, our situation is not what allows it. It's kind of embarrassing, I would say, to improve the situation in the labour market, but not to the extent that we can be satisfied now and say that we are no longer concerned in this area. However, there are more than one hundred thousand unemployed citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Many of you have already spoken before me about so-called structural unemployment, and if you did not give this extended period to Croatian citizens, there would be great pressure on this already existing structural unemployment, as Croatians, as you have heard from the report and also from the debates, are employed in this particular segment of our labour market, which is talking about our structural unemployment. This measure is of a preventive nature and is not the most popular, but it goes towards improving the labour market situation in the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to draw attention to the following. I wish this measure hadn't taken all three years to be shorter. In any case, if it lasts three years, we will not be in a situation again in three years to extend it for another two years. I firmly believe that the measures the Ministry is preparing will improve the situation in our labour market so that this will no longer be necessary for Croatian citizens or for nationals of any other country. At the same time, I am sure that this measure – my colleague Jurša told you earlier – that we also discussed this subject with representatives of the comparable Croatian Parliament's Committee, and I must say that they understood our problem, our problems and the action we are taking today. Of course, they did not accept it with open arms, but they understand this because of the problem or the situation that Slovenia is in. On the basis of everything I have said, I am sure that this will not exacerbate the relations between the two neighbours, here we can find all together, friendly countries that have opportunities in many other areas of cooperation and will continue to strengthen their neighbourly and friendly relations. Maybe that's the end of it. It is not here, because it has also been established on the committee itself, the fear that Croatian citizens will be in an inferior situation in the face of so-called third-country nationals. It's not like that. Croatian citizens are in no way in a worse position than third-country nationals. This will also be the case, with the wish already expressed at the outset that this period should not last for three years, but certainly in the belief that it will not have to be extended within three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Today we have heard a bunch of references to the 2010 economic migration strategy, which determines which employee profiles are in the interest of Slovenia. In the United Left, we propose extending these exceptions for two reasons. Firstly, for us, these workers are people, but not just some workforce, so their interest must also be taken into account, and secondly, the strategy has been completely designed. In our labour market there is a large shortage of welders and other profiles with vocational or secondary education.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have already said that we will not support this amendment, but this debate that I have just listened to, I must say, goes beyond all the limits of good taste. Some people sitting in this Slovenian Parliament do not realize that the primary task of the national Parliament is to take care of their unemployed people. We have about 130,000 unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia, and our primary task is to take care of these people. And I hope that all the parliamentary groups, all the parties sitting in this House, are aware of this. With this demagogue of the United Left, which I'm listening to here today, I must say I'm going to throw up! Especially since these people here are trying to demagogically explain to me some things that are far from what is reality! Most of the other debaters discussed today in this House were realistic, honest and responsible. I can't stand Demagog's! It is unfair that, on the one hand, the United Left declares themselves as those who try to help a small man and on the other hand speak the opposite. Instead of maximizing their commitment to themselves, their political power in the context of helping our unemployed, they try to put such and other statements behind those who have debated in this national council. To conclude, it will be very difficult for me the representatives of any political party, any individuals, to convince me how to function in this country if they do not have one minute of working time! Not a minute of working time! And they would tell us here how we must act, how the state must function! Please, where are we going?Oh, my God! Where are we going?Oh, my God! This is the real path that goes in the direction that the whole story is going in Greece. And please those, so I wrote on Twitter that they stop, stop with such demagogies! This does not mean that I, as a member of the National Assembly, have anything against people from foreign countries who want to work in our country — nothing at all. However, as a Member elected for the fourth time in the elections, I am aware that my primary task is to ensure that Slovenians and Slovenians and all those living in this country can function normally. And that's our joint mission. I have listened to many debaters from all the other parties today, and I was very pleased to see that they were very realistic, very honest, very responsible – that first of all we need to take care of our unemployed, our people, so that we do not deal with such laws as we did just before the country has to adopt through legislation to pay people checks that they cannot pay for themselves! This is where we have to think. First, we must make sure that the people themselves can pay their own bloody wages, the pensioners pay their own income checks so that they can function in this country! We have to take care of this first! And I expect all the demagogues in this House to understand what our primary task is. Our primary task is, once again, to pay checks and whatever it takes for people to be able to function normally in this country alone with their own wages. That's our primary assignment! I am sure that we should be aware of this, and I hope that this moment of reality and truth will come. I believe, and I am sure, that, now slowly, most of the political parties sitting in this House understand this matter in this way, and that the real moment that the Slovenian people want is slowly coming along with us in this House in the tasks and solutions that the Slovenian people need. Thank God and I hope this moment is no longer far away. And then we can truly say that in this House there are not demogogues, but those who are for the common good of everyone and everyone who lives in this country — first. And there is no problem opening the door wide when we assure ourselves at home first that our people will be able to live and pay checks with their wages. When we do this, we have taken that key step for the good of everyone and everyone in this country. I think we have to walk this way. That's fair and fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u98	First of all, I have to protest that someone here insults me that I don't have a single year's work. I'm almost 40 years of work, sorry. You were talking about the demagogies of the United Left. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I finish?Oh, my God! Can you extend my time because I can't talk if they're jumping into my word? Someone who says they're other demagogues, but he doesn't allow himself to be allowed to be answered by others, even as I let you talk. I've been working on development issues for 40 years. [[...]] I published a few hundred, not one article. I've been doing international research. When you receive a certificate from the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations that your English and Slovenian printed book on the development programme for Slovenia is exemplary for the whole world, then you will be able to insult the rest. Thank you very much. I don't feel like kissing anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u99	Good. If there's still a desire to discuss it, please apply. Procedural first, mag. Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I propose, on a procedural basis, a re-examination of the content under consideration today, given that Germany decided yesterday to open the labour market for Croatian workers. About 10,000 Croatian workers are expected each year in Germany, especially lower-educated workers. I stress this because 68% of Croats working abroad are employed in Germany. There are also salaries for these profiles significantly higher than for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The legislative process is under way. If we wanted to, then we should write an amendment, so please take that into account. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The amendment before us reminds me of my personal story, which I experienced after Slovenia's independence in 1992, when I, as a young boy myself, went across the border to Austria, where I was then hired, first by the private company Munin Hardware Software, the development center in Eichfeld, later by the Swedish-American multinational Hugin-Sweda, two years later by Siemens. How to stop or release work quotas is always a question for every country, but often for some, I would say the gaps that arise because certain governments or policies do not pursue economic goals even with the school system in its entirety. A few days ago, because I see the Minister here too, I said that for certain economic sectors of a particular policy or government, there was no sense of what kind of personnel we would need in the future. School policies also tend to pursue a future in the coming decades. It's not ad hoc, it's not overnight solutions. Here too today we can see that Slovenia must be protected on the one hand because in the past we may have made some mistakes that we all feel today. Finally, I said that this is what the OECD is telling us, which is what German companies in Slovenia are talking about. The German Chamber of Commerce also recently carried out an extensive survey where it was found that almost half of the German employers operating in the Republic of Slovenia disagreed with the current school policy and cautioned you, in particular as a member of the Government, that they needed mainly personnel from the dual school system. Yesterday I also looked at some employment agencies, their calls for what kind of personnel we need. It wouldn't be bad for us to look at this for our colleagues as well -- maybe some of you look at it -- when we talk about our proposal to introduce a dual school system in the coming months and weeks to see what the economy needs, what trends, what they mean also where we went, overqualifications. The most developed countries are not afraid of migrants, they are not afraid of working economic migrants from foreign countries because they have some development. These are companies where economic policies are usually run or are at the forefront of all kinds of engineers, not political scientists, not sociologists or minorities, and not other social, humanistic influences that I do not deny, of course, that are needed in other policies. It is in economic terms that engineers and engineering professions must be at the forefront. This is a driver of development, respected colleagues, this is what is the difference between our Slovenian society and societies, where I have gained some work experience myself. This means that we are developing products with high added value, that the contact is also between development centres and the economy, so that as many young people are educated in technical, not just engineering studies. That means some development. And when that happens, we don't have to wonder whether we're afraid of foreign migrants or not. Where there's a lot of products, then all you need is another extra workforce. The amendment of the United Left, which we are currently discussing to replace the word "high school" with the text "high school" or "professional" – see, even when I started my story, the staff with higher education, including in Austria, those who would really give added value to their products, services on the market, which is why I find it difficult to agree. Slovenia has [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? It's not. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, one hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Raising and Education in the framework of the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u104	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The teacher remains the most important provider of quality assurance for the educational process. In this respect, all teachers must have a staff condition, at least a second Bologna level of education, and all must have andragogic and pedagogical knowledge. In addition, the rules set out the appropriate direction for teaching individual subjects. The rules provide that only the direction of education resulting directly from the subject-matter discipline of an individual school subject is appropriate. With such provisions, we want to ensure the best possible subject-matter competence of an individual teacher or teacher. In practice, however, this means that a teacher who, for example, has acquired an education in biology and chemistry and who wants to teach a subject of natural science must also acquire the appropriate knowledge from physics. Just as an illustration. Such a provision often causes a number of organizational problems, especially at branch schools, small schools, that is, schools with fewer pupils, in schools where many educational programs are implemented. That is why we have been faced with many debates and initiatives in recent years, whether it would be better to extend human resources conditions and allow teachers to teach all those subjects that are related to their basic education. Such a solution, for example, is used by some others, including neighbouring European countries, especially those that can be traditional and consistent with our system related to Slovenia. These issues, however, have become particularly topical in the context of the so-called Bologna reform, which, we know, introduces the first and second rates of Bologna. A number of concerns and dilemmas related to the determination of the subject’s competence to teach an individual subject have already been resolved by Slovenia in its legislation in 2003 in the direction of determining the transitional period for understanding the appropriate competence. Thus, it was stipulated by transitional provisions that the teacher may teach 40% of the prescribed educational obligations of school subjects which do not derive directly from his subject-matter discipline for which he has received education. In doing so, it should be stressed that such solutions concern only teachers or teachers who have an indefinite working relationship in school for a full-time period of time, although they cannot be provided with a learning obligation in accordance with the provisions on adequate competence to teach an individual subject. Another condition must be met, namely that this is necessary due to the smooth implementation of educational activities. The validity of this provision was later extended, and this year's school year, 2015/2016, would have expired. In view of the fact that the organisational difficulties faced by schools have become some of the provisions, including the 1% reduction provision, only more demanding, the Ministry proposes that the provisions of this Article should be extended, so that at the same time those parts of the provision requiring that only teachers and teachers who have an indeterminate working relationship in school may not be provided with a learning obligation in accordance with the provisions on the appropriate competence to teach a particular subject. As mentioned above, this is necessary because of the smooth implementation of educational activities. At the same time, this provision would also create the conditions under which we stress the Ministry's direction, namely that school management must focus all its efforts on obtaining a properly trained staff. That is why the proposed provision includes a so-called rate reduction in the share in which an inadequately qualified teacher can teach a particular subject, which directly means in the school year 2015/2016 the retention of the provision by 40%, in the following year or in the coming year 2016/2017 30% and in the school year 2017/2018 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 12th regular session on 12 June, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. At its 30th regular meeting on 8 June, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. Among other things, she pointed out that in the way in which learning obligations are complemented with other subjects, the quality of teaching should be maintained, or that the standards of knowledge and teaching by content, didactics and methodologies required for individual subjects should be taken into account. The opinion was presented at the board meeting by Dr. Zoran Christmas. Within the deadline of business, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled an amendment to Article 1. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, said that the aim of the bill is to allow educational institutions the necessary time for the legal implementation of the educational programme without increasing the financial resources for this purpose and to implement the relevant human resources development plan for the period when the proposed transitional regime expires. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has not commented on it. In particular, the debate took place in order to complement the learning obligation which, following the proposed amendment in the school year 2015/2016, should not exceed 40 %, in 2016/2017 no more than 30 % and in the school year 2017/2018 no more than 20 % of the legal scope of the professional learning obligation. Some discussers felt that 40 % of non-professional teaching should be reduced to 10% in two school years because they felt that, with a higher percentage of non-professional teaching, the knowledge of pupils and students in all areas is poorer and indirectly reduced their competitiveness in the European labour market. Others felt that they did not oppose the changes because they were gradual and the provision did not cease to work immediately. They explained that it was for various engineering engineers and electrotechnics who were taught in the lower professional profiles, so that they were good staff, and that the educational institutions in the financial plans for the next school year had already taken into account the 40% complement to the learning obligation. Following the conclusion of the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to Article 1. Since amendments, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth of the National Assembly have not been adopted to the draft law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the urgent procedure shall be adopted in the present text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor, he will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u108	In the United Left, we support the proposal to extend the period of complementarity of the learning obligation for professional workers who cannot be afforded a legal scope to teach subjects for which they meet all the conditions. We agree that staff restructuring needs to be carried out gradually, as education mainly in the field of human resources is facing significant problems, which are primarily due to belt tightening in public finances. In today’s extension, the most important aspect is the specific secondary and vocational schools and branch schools, where existing staff are required to cover subjects for which they are not educated. At the principle level, we must strive as much as possible to ensure that teachers and teachers have education and subjugation for the subjects they teach, but it is clear that this will not be achieved in full, especially overnight. However, the extension of the period of complementarity of the learning obligation is ambivalent. On the one hand, the smaller part of the current full-time workforce will be reduced, but at the same time at least a certain space will be opened for employment of new staff, particularly young people, who are most acutely experiencing austerity measures in the public sector. At the same time, this is important from the point of view of human reproduction, from the point of view of the transfer of knowledge to the younger and older. By tightening the belt, this process has in many cases been interrupted or severely hampered, and the consequences on the quality of public education can be extremely negative in the long term. One of the key problems is the saving provision on the one-per-cent reduction of employees. An additional problem is that managers understand this provision at the level of individual schools, not at the level of the whole sector, which means that there are even worse human resources problems. At the same time, we are monitoring high demographic pressure on education, as the number of children enrolled is increasing. In the following year, an additional 4,000 children were to be enrolled. The result of all this is clear: the intensity of teacher work must be increased, while the quality of the learning process itself is at risk. The pressure's getting bigger because it's bringing in two. Firstly, exacerbating the situation of domination among different groups of public sector employees. Regular workers are forced to work more productively and intensively, while privileged elites gain more and more power. Secondly, public education loses quality, so it is increasingly at the heart of the shock of private interest, both through substantive intrusion and the establishment of private competition, where the main problem is that it is not accessible to all, that it can select its students and thereby further marginalise those who have already found themselves on the edge of society for property, ethnic or other reasons. At the same time, there is a problem of worldwide neutrality and secularism, which should be the foundation of the education system in the 21st century. In the United Left, we support the bill, but once again it must be stressed that the measures and trends we have witnessed in recent years threaten our public school system from the lowest level to higher education. Quality and universally accessible public education is our greatest wealth and we must do everything possible not only to defend it but to develop and democratise governance with it, with the greater word being given to employees, not only to top-privileged elites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-worker! The amendment under consideration prolongs the period of complementarity of the learning obligation. Staff adjustments allow professional workers who have an indeterminate working relationship at school for an indefinite period of full-time working time and cannot be provided with a legal degree to teach subjects for which they meet all the conditions laid down in the law and other rules, to supplement the learning obligation for other subjects until the end of the school year 2017/2018, that is until 31 August 2018. The Ministry proposes that the level of complementarity of the learning obligation should be gradually reduced to 40% in the school year 2015/2016, to 30% in the school year 2016/2017 and to 20% of the statutory level of the professional's educational obligations in the school year 2017/2018. We think it is good for Christian Democrats to allow schools a transitional period in which they can adapt organisationally and humanly to any systemic changes introduced into the school system after the completion of the nine-year period. In this regard, I refer mainly to the early teaching of the first foreign language or optional selection items. In the New Slovenia Group, however, we agree with all those who warn that school management is responsible for ensuring that this possibility of complementarity is not misused. It is good that there is a possibility of complementing learning obligations, but only in emergencies and to a lesser extent, and this must not happen at the expense of the professional level of teaching of individual subjects. The Christian Democrats will support the novel. However, we expect responsible conduct and sound judgement from school management about who and what qualifications he can teach subjects for which he does not meet all the conditions. Especially in those subjects that continue in high school, such as foreign language, mathematics, physics, Slovenian language, is of the utmost importance to students. This depends largely on how they continue their secondary education and on what challenges they face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Teachers and professionals working in education and education are one of the foundations of the success of the education system. With the amendment of the law that we are deciding today, we will allow teachers or professionals to complement the learning obligation in other subjects in the event that they have an indefinite working relationship at school for an indefinite period of full-time and cannot provide them with a legal degree to teach subjects for which they meet all the conditions laid down by law. The level of complementarity of the learning obligation will gradually decrease with a view to abolishing or expiring this option with effect from 1 September 2018. However, the current legal arrangements allowing for the completion of the learning obligation shall expire on 1 September 2015. The measure of complementing the 2003 learning obligation and extending it in 2010 resulted in the specific situation of education, such as the introduction of a nine-year-old, annual demographic fluctuations and the early teaching of foreign language and optional selection courses in recent years. In this way, educational institutions shall be allowed time for the legal implementation of the educational programme and for the period during which the proposed transitional regime expires. In the SMC Group we support the amendment of the law for several reasons. Firstly, the complete termination of the provision with effect from 1 September 2015 would lead to distortions in the implementation of the teaching and at the same time endanger the employment of individual teachers who complement a legally defined learning obligation in other subjects. This is particularly critical in small school environments and branch schools. Secondly, the extension of the deadline will again provide an opportunity for additional teacher training and the establishment of a system in which teachers will be able to obtain appropriate qualifications for teaching several subjects. Thirdly, educational institutions are given the opportunity to create the necessary human resources and organisational structures to carry out basic tasks and overlapping functions. In the SMC Group, we are particularly aware that the proposal for a law raises the issue of the quality of teaching by those teachers who do not meet the conditions for teaching individual subjects. However, the following should also be noted. Teachers generally complement the teaching obligation in materially related subjects. It is precisely for the sake of the competence of teaching that we agree with the competent ministry, which has provided for a gradual phase-out of the possibility of complementing learning obligations and that Slovenia is of the rare European countries which have relatively strict conditions for the competence of teachers in question, which is often regarded as an advantage in international research. It also has a positive impact on the professionalisation of the educational process. It is important that the functioning of the school system is adapted to the changes that take place both within it and in the wider social environment. For the above reasons, the SMC Group will support the implementation of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u113	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the secretary and secretary of state! The Education and Education Financing Act of 1996, during the time of Minister Gabra, stipulated that professional workers in certain areas can carry out educational work, although they do not have a professional education. In 2003, it was stipulated in the same law that workers who have an indefinite contract and cannot be afforded full-time employment under the law can supplement the learning obligation in other subjects, but only until 2010. In 2009, Minister Lukšič extended this period to 1. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The initial record that professional workers can also perform work in an area for which they are not trained is due to the fact that the country at the time required higher education for teachers – previously sufficient higher education – but did not create the conditions that would enable teachers to obtain the required education. The country pursued the goal of raising the educational structure of teachers, which is not to be disputed. For example, in music schools at that time, he taught a very large percentage of those who did not have enough professional education. But by that time it had come to, we could say, Gab's absurdity. If I could just give you one example. Higher education was required for the guitar teacher, and the Academy of Music offered such studies in the same year as the standard entered into force for higher education for these teachers. However, when these anomalies left until 2003, Minister Gaber still extended the matter until 2010. Minister Lukšič also used this approach, extending the measure until 2015. Instead of raising teaching obligations for teachers, because it is very difficult to reach out in interviews with trade unions, it has imposed a ban on employment and requires teachers who remain at school to complete a learning obligation. Today, we can no longer say that there is a transitional period in which professionals are supposed to receive adequate education, but also in the case of austerity measures at the expense of primary schools and students or at the expense of the quality of education in schools. It is also a fire-fighting problem in our schools, as things could have been settled since 1996 and 2010. With this amendment, the Ministry wishes to extend the period laid down in the transitional provisions until 2018. This means that, for example, a math teacher can teach up to 40% of normal hours — for example, in high school he has 20 hours and 8 hours then he can teach in other subjects. Today’s teacher should be prepared to teach almost all subjects, not without wanting to do so himself, but if he wants to have a full commitment. There are also such anomalies that math education is also taught by biologists, teachers of exercise, or organizers of practice. The bad thing about this thing is that it's a non-professional teaching, which is a poorer quality of knowledge in students and students. This also reduces their competitiveness in the European labour market. Most of the time, this is happening in secondary vocational schools, where there are fewer and fewer students, so there is less and less learning obligation. In this way teachers learn a number of different subjects for which they are not trained, which also means a great deal of effort for them, more preparation for training and more difficult exercise of the teaching itself. How can a person teach one or more subjects for which he is not qualified? If we're real, it's very hard. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment with which we would leave this transitional period, but reduce the percentage to which it can be supplemented to 30% and ultimately to 10%. We are also aware of the problem of branch schools. Unfortunately, our amendment has not been accepted. This amendment to the ZOFVI, namely the extension of this provision to teach up to 40% in other subjects, is opposed, as we believe that this does not regulate the chaotic situation in the field of education standards, but is only about prolonging saving measures in education and thus reducing the quality of teaching delivery, which we certainly cannot agree to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u115	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. The 2003 Amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education provided that professional workers employed for an indefinite period of time and full-time may supplement the learning obligation in other subjects by 1 September 2010. It was for teachers who cannot be provided with a full learning obligation that meets all the conditions, but there is a real need for subjects that ensure the smooth implementation of the educational process or activities. This first measure was introduced due to the need for a transitional regime due to the systematic introduction of a nine-year programme involving many organisational and human resources adjustments. The extension of this measure until the school year 2014/2015 required a systematic change in the introduction of education and education inclusion. Currently, the level of complementarity of the learning obligation with other subjects may be up to 40% per teacher. As this measure expires this year with the new school year, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has once again proposed to extend the possibility of meeting the manoeuvring hours for those teachers who do not have full learning obligations in their home area. Today's paper also aims to join the gradual decline in the share of complementarities in learning commitments over the next three years. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we agree that staff and organisational adjustments are necessary, because, while this option is not being extended, there are risks of disruptions in the educational process, additional financial implications for the budget are expected, and, last but not least, the situation in the future takes into account the employment of only fine-tuning workers or in the form of fine-tuning work, as schools will be forced to seek additional assistance in individual hours, objects and activities. Members and Members of the Commission will support the amendment, while at the same time reminding us that this way of carrying out the educational and educational process needs to maintain or ensure an adequate high level of quality of teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u117	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the introduction, let me say that we welcome and support the law under consideration in the Group of Members, as it governs the way in which the teaching obligation of teachers is complemented in other subjects, in cases where there is no full learning obligation for a teacher in the subject he teaches otherwise. This is very important for the Social Democrats, because this keeps the working relationship full-time, and we believe that this can also have a very strong impact on the motivation of teachers, especially given the recently presented extremely difficult situation in education or the educational process, which is also very often reflected in violence. One of the important measures to be able to cope with such a situation is to stimulate teachers as much as possible, to carry out their tasks as possible, and to deal as long as possible with students. In addition, we believe that this measure is also extremely welcome for the maintenance of branch schools, since the maintenance of branch schools is extremely important for areas facing very difficult development problems. Many times it is the presence of a school in this environment that is important to stimulate families to remain in this environment, to preserve life and thus the image of Slovenia as we know it, and which is quite different from other European Union countries precisely because we are characterised by the fact that we have a very populated rural area. Every school year depends to a large extent also on the demographic situation, and demographic fluctuations are those that also have a strong impact on how learning will be organised. This measure is also one of those that can certainly help make school management more responsive to the changing demographic situation in schools. Finally, it is also important for us that this law is in line with the unions. Also, with regard to the quality of teaching that may be worse in some subjects because it is taught in a number of subjects, we feel that it will not be significantly worse. Last but not least, the law provides that from year to year such learning obligations are reduced by 10%, indicating that this law also expresses the desire that the quality of learning in the future is also raised by this measure. In short, we will support the law and we want the learning process in public schools to take place at the highest possible level in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u119	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, one hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day, it's on the eve of a bill on road supplements. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemna Grebenška, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Government has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to supplement the Roads Act. It deals with open issues relating to common public roads, that is, roads that take part across the territory of our country and are categorised in a neighbouring country. Since these roads are not part of our internally connected public road network, they are not categorised with us and are subject to agreements with neighbouring countries. Therefore, there is a clear international obligation for the Republic of Slovenia to regulate legal relations with such roads. Common public roads will be subject to such arrangements on our territory as are applicable to categorised public roads. They will therefore be considered public roads in all respects, in particular with regard to infrastructure protection and transport on them, and in particular it will be clear that they can be freely used by all transport operators. As a legal country, the Republic of Slovenia must, in accordance with international arrangements, ensure the protection of the road as an infrastructure in our territory and the smooth flow of traffic through it. Therefore, land under the road on our country’s side can also be owned by the congregations if such an interest is expressed by the congregation. Public interest will be given to the acquisition of land. Given the common importance of roads for neighbouring countries, all issues of construction, reconstruction, maintenance, management and similar management will be addressed by an international agreement. The legal arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia will apply to issues not specifically addressed by an international agreement. At first glance, it may seem that the law governs only the existing situation on certain roads, but it should be stressed that there is something else at the borders with neighbouring countries of such roads, so the law will allow for an appropriate regulation of the situation on all common public roads. The law will also apply to the new road infrastructure that is yet to be built and will enable effective practical implementation of agreements with neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall meet at its 17th emergency meeting, on 11. 6. 2015 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Roads Act for consideration by the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 30th session. 6. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. Amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the SMC, Desus and SD were tabled within the time limit. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, explained that in the current system governed by the Roads Act, there is a legal void for roads that take part across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, partly across the neighbouring country and are categorised in the neighbouring country. As a result, it is a key objective of the bill to place common public roads, namely public roads categorised in the neighbouring country, which take place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, within the legal framework applicable to public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. Common public roads as a new concept of road in our legal order will thus apply in all aspects of public roads, in particular as regards the protection of infrastructure and their transport. The bill also regulates property rights on land that are followed by a common public road. The new law will also regulate the process of acquiring or limiting property rights in public benefit of the construction, reconstruction or acquisition of common public roads, with the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality acting as a dispossessing beneficiary. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Director-General for International Law and Interest Protection, Mr Borut Mahnic, added to the proposal's opening presentation that the draft law would also solve the problem of a particular case, namely a wine road categorised in the Republic of Austria and partly takes place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In this part, the owner of the land lying under the road by placing physical barriers prevents traffic, and it is not possible to prevent such conduct by applying the applicable rules, as it is not possible to carry out a decommissioning procedure under the current regime. Consequently, the Republic of Slovenia is currently unable to fulfil its obligations under an international contract with the Republic of Austria, under which it is obliged, inter alia, to provide conditions for the smooth use of this road. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service were largely taken into account in the proposed amendments. Mr Jernej Verbič, representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, said in his presentation of their opinion that the Commission supports the proposal for a law, since it is not possible to address the issue of the unlimited use of that border wine road within the framework of the current acquis. In a short discussion, it was also pointed out that the bill solves only a small part of the problem in relation to ownership relations and road categorisation in Slovenia. It was pointed out that property relations related to public roads or in the field of categorisation in particular of municipal roads were highly irregular, as in many cases they still take place through private land. The Committee adopted amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u123	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u124	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Tourism for Slovenia is one of the most important industries and is largely linked to road infrastructure. It is difficult to imagine the development of tourism activities without good and orderly roads, and even less so that their use is hindered by the owners of the land through which these roads take place. When we talk about common public roads, i.e. roads categorised in a neighbouring country and partly run across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also important that they are subject to the same infrastructure and transport protection system as those of public roads categorised in our country. Since common public roads take place mostly along borders with neighbouring countries, when tourists enter Slovenia, they are the first mirror of our country. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that it is therefore unacceptable that the status of such a road has so far remained disorderly and irregular, despite the fact that there are international obligations of Slovenia to ensure conditions for its smooth use. This is where the absurd situation arises when landowners who run joint public roads can literally blackmail compensation payments. The logical question follows is why we have not settled this in Slovenia long ago, why we are always waiting until the moment the negative consequences have already occurred for both road users and the state budget. The fact is that joint public roads must be owned by the Republic of Slovenia or by the municipality, which, in the process of obtaining land for public benefit, act as dispossessing beneficiaries. In a specific case where we are talking today about a proposal for a new Road Law, this would mean the application of a simplified decommissioning procedure, which is the same as the existing public roads. The owner of the land under way of a public road is entitled to compensation paid on the basis of a valid valuation, whereas the owner of the land under way of the common public road may require any high compensation or even the establishment in the previous situation. It's not too much in this place to look at the matter a little bit wider. We still have a large number of municipal public roads running through land that have remained privately owned. It is true that these roads are not directly linked to the content of the proposed Supplement to the Roads Act, but this is an area related to financial resources and to the payment of compensations themselves. The categorisation of public roads and the related regulation of property relations thus remains our unfinished task. Since it is essential to place common public roads within the legal framework applicable to public roads in the Republic of Slovenia and thus to prevent difficult remedial consequences for the country, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed Law on Supplements to the Roads Act, but we repeat that we can do so in the past. The difficult remedial consequences – I am talking about the payment of a daily penalty of EUR 500 and up to EUR 300,000 – could not have been achieved if Slovenia had done its task in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u125	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. The proposed novels of the Roads Act regulate the legal void when roads running partly across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and partly across the neighbouring country and categorised in a neighbouring country do not have the status that a country, as in a particular case, may fulfil its international obligations. As a result, this is also shown by the fact that such roads are unregulated, in particular that a certain obligation has been imposed on the Republic of Slovenia to remove part of the road. This law introduces a new concept of a common public road that will resolve this matter within the framework of the law. The common public road will have its own special legal status, while also introducing a basis for the decommissioning and limitation of property rights on real estate due to the need to build, reconstruct or take over of this common public road. This introduces principles, such as protection for all public road infrastructure, equal protection for road users and equal protection for decommissioning debtors, through the provisions of the law. In particular, as already mentioned, the adoption of the law will be the basis for the renewal of the road in the border area with the Republic of Austria. It is a so-called wine road, which is, after all, part of our tourist infrastructure, on which part of the road is also run by private land, and the owner opposes the use of this plot for the purposes of the road. In the case of a wine road, it is an international obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to provide conditions for its smooth use, and as a result of the opposition of the landowner, the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia under an international contract with Austria has also been jeopardised, and the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia as a guarantor of the fulfilment of an international contract in the work relating to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The application of the applicable rules of this procedure could not be prevented, as the decommissioning procedure cannot be carried out under the current regime and this law will change. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we are convinced that this law should have been adopted long ago, but of course it is not too late now. In fact, it is time for this to be settled and, finally, to enable the development of tourism infrastructure such as wine roads. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u127	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u128	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! This law is supposed to solve only one specific case, which could then be extended to other cases where one road runs across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and is categorised in the acts of the neighbouring country, in which case the neighbouring state of Austria. By adopting this amendment of the law, we will only achieve that this road will be categorised in our country as well, according to both. But in our view, this is not yet the legal basis for decommissioning this road. The legal basis for depriving the road is public interest. However, the public interest must be expressed by means of an implementing spatial act. If that is not the case, then discharge is not possible and it must be achieved through the court that the court determines that this road belongs to the Republic of Slovenia or to the municipality. In the event that it is a municipal road running through a private land, it is not possible to relax it, because a parcel without the consent of the owner is not possible. We can do this through a court of law, but the judgment can take several years. We have also highlighted this issue on the committee itself. The problem is also related to other municipal roads, as a colleague from Nova Slovenije has already said. The problem is very broad and delicate. In Slovenia we have 32,000 km of municipal roads, of which 23 000 are said to be unregulated. Only cadastral doses would cost 2.2 billion, namely, the congregations. We do not have the appropriate legislation where we could express this public interest or where it is not possible for the owner to reach agreement so that you can dissipate it in the public interest. We don't have a procedure. Even in this case, as far as I know, this road, which is categorised in the neighbouring Republic of Austria, follows private ownership in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what they say. The owner is Slovenian and he's going through our territory. To deal with this, it will probably take some time if we do not look for solutions in the legislation, so that we can relax for those areas where roads go through private land, under some urgent procedure. But first, public interest must be achieved or exercised. However, the public interest may be exercised only by a decree or by a spatial act which is designed to form the basis of a cadastral act where the boundary to the cadastral boundary is established in this act. We do not have this legislation for the municipalities. We have it for the country, including for the emergency process, but there are implementing space acts everywhere. This problem will escalate. Some owners will even claim compensation or charge for the use because the road is considered an object built on foreign land. In the case of compensation, the court has this practice to take into account the value of the building and not the actual use of the land before the road was built. So the problem is much broader. We will support this change in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But this change of law does not solve this particular case unless we somehow upgrade this legislation, even by solving all the other municipal roads where such a problem is.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u129	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! The existing road law governs the public roads system in the Republic of Slovenia, which may be state or municipal. Public roads are public and are out of legal traffic. It is not possible to acquire ownership rights through possession or other real rights. Unfortunately, however, there is a legal void in roads that are partly located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and are categorised in the neighbouring country. Such roads would be public roads, but do not meet the conditions of transport connectivity within the state road system, in view of the accessibility of users and the obvious public legal element, and are therefore not categorised in the Republic of Slovenia. A road categorised in a neighbouring country shall be considered as a non-categorised road under the applicable regime. Due to the existing legal void, we are witnessing a case that is taking place on the so-called wine road in the border area with the Republic of Austria. There, the owner of the land lying under the road, by placing physical obstacles, prevents or threatens traffic by obstructing traffic. As it cannot be prevented by the application of the applicable rules of this procedure, the credibility of the Republic of Slovenia as a guarantor for the fulfilment of an international contract in the work relating to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia shall be compromised. This road was established at the time of the establishment of the State border, which was established by the International Commission for Delimitation in 1923 on the basis of the Saintgermain Treaty with Austria, and two years later the road was designated as a common road. It is therefore an international obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to provide conditions for smooth application. In accordance with Article 27 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties, the State must take the necessary measures to respect international obligations. In a given case where the Republic of Slovenia cannot provide such measures under applicable domestic law, its reputation is at risk. In addition, in the present case, the owner of the land under the wine road in a judicial procedure with a legal judgment achieved that the Republic of Slovenia must establish the previous situation by instilling the land with land and poison. Since the State cannot fulfil this enforceable obligation without at the same time violating its clearly defined international obligation, it has been ordered to pay a daily fine of EUR 500 up to a maximum of EUR 300,000 to the fiduciary account of the owner. By implementing the imposed obligation to establish a border road established by an international contract, the former state and payment of the penalty penalty threatens the Republic of Slovenia with severe remedial damage. It is precisely to avoid the legal void that may go to the detriment of our country, and because the case of a wine road is not the only case in the border area, the proposal of the law extends the concept of a public road to those categorised in the neighbouring country and partly takes place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This will establish for common public roads such a system of provisions for infrastructure and transport protection as is the case for public roads categorised in the Republic of Slovenia. Since the road takes place in part also in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and is put into free use, such an arrangement is extremely important. The law also regulates property rights on land on which a common public road takes place, while at the same time it provides that a common public road may be freely used in the manner and conditions laid down by the rules governing roads and the safety of traffic on them, meaning the provisions of the Republic of Slovenia, including ratified international treaties. This clearly governs non-discriminatory use which prevents arbitrary restrictions on the use of the road in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Desus Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u131	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u132	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Roads Act regulates a very specific and individual situation, namely the placement of common public roads, which take place simultaneously across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and across the territory of the neighbouring country, in a legal framework which otherwise applies to public roads in the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, it should be pointed out that in this case it is those roads which are not categorised in the Republic of Slovenia but are categorised in another country, which in this case also has a greater interest in the course of the road and also mostly in the maintenance of the road. All the rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and neighbouring countries in this regard are further regulated by specific bilateral agreements. In the border area between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia there is a so-called wine road, where the owner of the land where part of the road is going through prevents or threatens to obstruct traffic by obstacles. Since it is not possible to prevent these practices under the current rules, it is necessary to amend the legislation accordingly, since the Republic of Slovenia must fulfil its part of the contractual obligations to the Republic of Austria and to all road users and allow for smooth and smooth traffic. The adoption of this law will allow the Republic of Slovenia to carry out appropriate criminal proceedings in that area of the wine road and to pay fair and fair compensation to the owner, even though the landowner has succeeded in bringing the Republic of Slovenia to justice that it must remove asphalt and banks from its part of the land and restore it to its former condition. As this cannot be achieved in the current context without the Republic of Slovenia in breach of its international obligations, it is imperative that we today adopt an amendment to this law. As it is also not clear at present whether there are similar cases, the Social Democrats estimate that it is necessary and beneficial to regulate systematically at the legal level all other possible cases of such situations where roads run simultaneously across the territories of two neighbouring countries. Therefore, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Roads Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u133	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u134	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The proposed Law on Supplements to the Roads Act is one of those, unfortunately, increasingly rare points where the positions of the Group of Ambassadors are matched by the United Left and the Government of Mira Cerar. The fact that certain roads, such as the so-called wine road at the border with Austria, are freely accessible and clearly performing public functions in Slovenia as a public road is not only categorised because they are already categorised in another country, is an unacceptable legal void that needs to be removed as soon as possible. As the case of the wine road shows, without this it is impossible to regulate real rights in relation to such roads, and above all this is a condition for these roads to also be subject to traffic and infrastructure arrangements such as those already categorised as public roads in Slovenia. In the Group of the United Left, however, we regret that the government of Mira Cerar and its predecessors did not remove this legal void much earlier. However, we should do so before we go so far as to have to pay a daily fine of EUR 500 to the owner of the land on which part of the wine road runs, and together perhaps up to EUR 300,000. Since such roads in Slovenia are not categorised as public roads, there can also be situations such as these in the case of a wine road, when private people threaten to stop traffic, and sometimes threats by the imposition of various physical barriers also come true. This is not only unfavourable for the users of these roads, but also for the reputation of the State, because it cannot therefore fulfil the obligations imposed on it by international treaties. However, we hope that the will of the Government of Mir Cerar, after recognising the public good situation for all transport infrastructure, which it is, suggests that it will also recognise all other infrastructure. Not only public health and education, but also the companies and banks that we are selling now are urgently needed to bring our society and our economy back to life. What if the new owner of Telekom Slovenije, like the land owner mentioned, decides to stop the flow of data via cables, which are now also owned by Telekom Slovenije? Or is it that, for example, the company ceases to develop technologically? And what if, according to a new privately owned system bank, they decide to stop lending our economy for this or another business reason? An unfortunate case of a wine road may seem trivial at first sight, but it can teach us an important general lesson. We must bring him under public control if we are to protect him from flies and private interests. In the Joint Left Group, we agree with the Government of Mira Cerar that in the case of road infrastructure this means extending the definition of public road to roads that we share with other countries. We warn, however, that public good and necessary infrastructure today is not only concrete and iron, but also systems banks, Telekom Slovenije and other key companies. For the sake of all the people of this country, we hope that the Government will learn this lesson before it is too late again, and this time the damage will be much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u135	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, one hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the collection of health protection data within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Nina Pirnat, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The adoption of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases of Health Care takes place on a regular basis. At the initiative of Members, a general debate was held at the end of April on some of the key issues of the law. On a proposal from the law, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave an opinion. On the basis of this opinion, amendments were prepared which were adopted by the Health Committee and fully followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The proposal for that law, as we have already explained several times, refers in its substantive part to providing legal basis for the electronicisation of medical processes: eRecept, eProcurement, use of interoperable spines, use of many products that we have created during the project. This allows the removal of administrative barriers in healthcare providers and the elimination of administrative barriers in the patient. The bill also refers to other substantive additions and amendments resulting from compliance with other laws and also to the partial transposition of the Directive on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. The bill thus introduces legal basis for eHealth in a way that introduces e-business in health at national level and nine new databases in the field of health. The use of eHealth electronic services should be extended to the national level as soon as possible in order to be used by all healthcare providers. The proposed law will make this possible by establishing legal bases, ensuring clearly defined data collection and processing in eHealth databases and allowing eHealth services to be provided electronically at national level as a normal way of working in healthcare. This will allow us to take a step forward with other European countries, which are fast ahead of us in developing in this area. Since there are no amendments tabled by law, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that a third consideration of the draft law be carried out at today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u137	The proposal for legislation was considered by the Health Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honors are here! The Health Committee shall meet at its 5th regular session of 28. 5. Considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee took note of the following material: the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. The amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD members to Articles 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 and 1, respectively, for new Articles 9a and 11, 12 and 13. In a supplementary explanation, Ms Nina Pirnat, representative of the proposer, presented the main solutions to the draft law, the fundamental objective of which is to ensure the operation and use of the modern information technology system and to provide information security for eHealth services, which need to be implemented at national level. Health information requires some urgent specific provisions and clear game rules for all involved, namely national institutions, health insurance companies, healthcare providers, suppliers, patients, NGOs and others. The bill will thus provide a legal basis for a quality, friendly and efficient healthcare business through eHealth services. Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek presented the opinion and said that the comments of their services with the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were largely taken into account. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Vice-President Tomaž Horvat. He stressed that the Commission supports and expects positive effects on both healthcare users and healthcare providers. The Commission also took note of the position of the National Institute for Public Health, which was actively involved in the drafting of the Law. The Commission also took note of the opinion of the information officer, who also actively participated in the drafting of the Law. There was no debate on the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u139	Since the 7th meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in one hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the ninth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.35 p.m. Members and members of the Mandate-Volution Commission shall be informed that the session of the Commission will begin in five minutes in a large salon on Šubičeva Street.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u140	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 in the framework of the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, that is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled by 18. 6. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our amendment to ZIPRS is very simple. The decision on this is simple — whether we want to live in a country where eight managers in the supervisory council and the SDH administration can decide whether we want to live in a country where democratically-loved authorities decide. We have identified ourselves as a second option, so we propose this amendment. The government proposal that we have on the table leaves the Slovenian State Holding with an autonomous decision on how much budget will be spent to buy new shares and recapitalise existing state-owned enterprises. It is true that this will only apply until the adoption of the management strategy, it is said that this is a transitional period, but adoption can be delayed. And given the proposal we have on the table, I hope that this transitional period will continue for a long time, as the strategy is also, I think that, for a large part of the Members here, it is unacceptable. In our amendment, however, it is only that the regime, which will be in force under Article 30 of the SDH Act after the adoption of the strategy, extends to a time when we do not yet have a valid management strategy. Article 30 of this Act provides that a government agreement on a proposal from the Finance Minister should be given to the management plan, including the acquisition of new state-owned shares. In this process, the government must make sure that the investment is sound, and this is its constitutional duty, which cannot be imposed on a technocrat authority such as SDH, and cannot be abolished by any SDH guidance. This is the content of this amendment, so that what will apply after the adoption of the strategy will also be passed on to a transitional period and thus ensure democratic control over the use of budgetary resources. So even though we've been talking about this amendment for weeks, I'm putting my heart at heart to support this. In the United Left, of course we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u142	We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 70. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on the single write-off of debts under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a single debt write-off law is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. This is a very simple matter. In the United Left, we proposed a single debt write-off law, which was totally arbitrarily eliminated from the debate before it even started on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Here we are also deciding whether this act was legitimate or not. The President of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure agreed that such actions were unacceptable and contrary to all democratic standards. Therefore, I also call on those Members who may not agree with the content alone to show by your vote today that you do not agree with such a way of dealing with the coalition against the opposition proposal. Thank you. Of course, we will vote against exclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u144	A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you, President. As regards inequality, the poverty of other groups of people who do not have enough power in society to dictate state policy, as individual neoliberal lobby can do, I have been monitoring for decades, as a sociologist for many years, as a writer of dozens of contributions in professional and customary newspapers, the media, social development expert, six years as a Ombudsman, now as a member of the National Assembly. And with any eyes or at any angle, I see the same picture. When it comes to trying to help the excluded, authorities show exceptional innovation in the search for obstacles. They always agree that the poor have to be helped, but always come from somewhere but – but the solution is not complete, but the law does not allow it, but it is important to be careful that there is no need to get a dime too much and so on. And they have deep sympathy for him. But when it comes to exploiters, for those who do not pay their contributions, do not pay their wages, and so forth, there is again a multitude of obstacles that cannot be prevented. Mary Wolstonecraft wrote a book about women's rights before the end of the 18th century, and she said we don't need charity, we need justice. After 250 years, it still exists. Of course I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u146	We vote on the decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law extending the transitional period in the field of the free movement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and their family members under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 18. 6. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. After the vote that has just taken place, with the problem of poverty in Slovenia evident for the majority in this House the business issue, I and the United Left are not surprised by the attitude towards this item on the agenda, where the employment of Croatian citizens is being heard. We don't support this in the United Left, we've already mentioned why. I could talk about the principle of reciprocity, I could talk about a little smarter diplomacy and so on, but here I have to explain the amendment to Article 2. The amendment to Article 2 is about extending the field of these beneficiaries, who are employed and Croatian citizens, and who have completed education in Slovenia in the last two years, from those with higher education to those with secondary or vocational education. At the very meeting of the parental committee, I wanted to have the executive's answers on this. We are talking about the economy, we are talking about reindustrialisation, but it is obvious that the gentlemen who are spinning this data there do not know that we are missing, for example, highly qualified welders and so on. At the same time, it's some fog and artificial scaring of people. After all, today, posted workers from Croatia to Slovenia are slightly over 4,000 people. The Slovenian labour market is not threatened by these Croatian workers or any Croatian workers we will need. They have been threatened by the policies and policies of the last decade. I hope you support this amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u148	We're voting on the amendment. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 11 votes against 69. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 69.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We will not support the United Left because it is economically unjustified and politically unjust. Unemployment is not a result of immigration, but of the general crisis, which is well assisted by European and Slovenian institutions. It is amazing that the same government defends Slovenian workers from Croatian workers, but did not defend them against Croatian tycoons. You and your predecessors watched calmly how the entire food processing chain in Slovenia was headed by Mercator, Drugs, Laško and finally Zita. During the meeting alone, we were informed that Germany was to remove restrictions on employment for Croatian citizens. This information has not been taken into account by the Government and the coalition, but is relevant for the adoption of this law. Germany is the far-reaching goal of Croatian citizens because the wages for comparable works are significantly higher than in Slovenia. Therefore, we can expect that a large part of those Croatian citizens looking for work in Slovenia will be diverted to Germany. Therefore, there are even fewer reasons to believe that the removal of restrictions in Slovenia would destabilise the labour market. This new situation is another reason why we will not support the law, but we would expect the coalition to take it into account in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u150	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The Government and the Ministry of Labour are calling on us to adopt a law extending the transitional period for Croatian citizens for the need to protect the Slovenian labour market and thus protect 120 thousand unemployed. Even so, the Slovenian market should be at risk of law being adopted on an emergency basis. Croatian workers are therefore expected to intervene in particular in jobs for which a lower level of education is required, and in Slovenia this group of unemployed is the most problematic. Your Honor! It was this week that Germany decided not to extend the transitional period for Croatian workers. As a result of this decision, they expect to be able to attract around 10,000 Croatian workers each year. There are 10 000 more jobs than there have been new jobs in the entire year in the territory of Slovenia. And as we know, in Germany, the easiest way to find jobs is to find workers with a lower level of education. This is information that denies all the governmental arguments that you fellows and colleagues have taken too quickly for dry gold. In Slovenia, it seems, we will not be able to look beyond our borders for a long time. Unfortunately, the biggest loss is Slovenia. We will not support the Alliance's proposal in the Group of Members, because it is unnecessary, as explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u152	We're voting on the law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 15. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Roads in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases of Health Care in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the trade agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and Colombia on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 75 votes against 5. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Candidate List for members of the Council of Justice. On the basis of Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Courts by letter of 29 May 2015 to the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor submitted a list of candidates for members of the Council with a proposal to elect two members of the four proposed candidates. These are: Mrs. Natasa Erjavec, Dr. Vid Jakulin, Mrs. Maja Pravječek and Dr. Grega Strban. In order to further explain the candidate list, I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u153	Dear President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The President of the Republic informed the President of the National Assembly of the election of members of the Council on the basis of the Constitution and the law, on the basis of which he had drawn up a candidate list of four candidates and candidates for two members of the Council of Justice. He listed Mrs Nataša Erjavec, Professor Vida Jakulina, Mrs Maja Pravječek and Prof. Greg Strban on the candidate list, as has already been said. The President of the Republic considers that all proposed candidates and candidates are such that they meet the high professional criteria for the performance of this important function and also that they adequately represent the representation of respected legal professionals, as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Nataša Erjavec is a university lawyer with a judicial exam, since 2001 a notary in Ljubljana, previously employed at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana as a notary deputy. She passed the midwife exam within the Slovenian Mediators' Association and acts as a mediator at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. She actively participates in the Notary Chamber of Slovenia and its bodies. At present, the third term shall be that of the Executive Committee of the Notary Chamber and the Vice-President of this Chamber. She published several professional legal articles and regularly participates as a lecturer in various professional meetings and meetings. Second candidate, Prof. Vid Jakulin, Doctor of Legal Sciences, Professor of Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Head of Courses of Criminal Law and Economic Criminal Law. In addition, the holder of the subjects is Kazen Material Law and the Criminal Process Law at the postgraduate study of the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana. He was involved in research and professional activities outside the Faculty, a member of a group of experts who prepared the working text of the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. As an expert of the Council of Europe and of the European Union on criminal and economic law, he participates in important projects of both European institutions. He was once a member of the Council of Justice, elected in 1999. He is also active in many professional societies and was also chairman of the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. Maja Pravicek is a university law graduate with a judicial exam, since 2008 a lawyer in Maribor. Prior to that, she was a judicial expert, then a notary candidate, then a district judge of the Maribor District Court, and since 2003 the president of this court. Its work area consists mainly of civil law, and to a lesser extent also of criminal law. During her career, she was further educated and, among other things, she received a hospital in the Gras district court. She is an active member of the Slovenian Bar Association and the Maribor Regional Council of Lawyers. And the last candidate, Prof. Grega Strban, doctor of legal science with a judicial exam, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana. He studied and researched in Ljubljana, Cambridge, Leuvna and Munich and hosted other prestigious universities. He is the holder of the Social Security Act, International and European Social Security Law, the co-signor of the case Procedure for Resolution of Labour and Social Disputes. He also teaches at the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and Faculty of Social Work in Ljubljana. He is involved in a number of research activities outside the university, a reviewer for the European Journal of Social Security and a reviewer of many other contributions. Since December 2013, he has been the scientific leader of the European project FreSsco, coordinated by the University of Gent. He is also the leader of the research programme Integration of the legal expression of European law into the Slovenian legal system. In 2008, he was appointed by the Court of Justice of the European Union to the list of experts in dispute resolution at the European University Institute in Florence, Italy. The third term of office is marked by the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana for Economic Affairs. On the basis of the assessment of all the candidates and of all the above, the President of the Republic considers that all candidates and candidates, with their expertise and experience, can justify your high expectations of serving as a member of the Council of Justice. The President of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to the National Assembly to elect two of the four proposed candidates for two seats of members of the Council of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u154	The candidate list was treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the Candidate List for the members of the Council of Justice. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Courts provides that the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected but not more than twice as many as the number of members elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts of Election, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre; Mr. Jan Škoberne, Group of the Social Democrats; Miha Kordiš, Group of the United Left; and Mrs. Iva Dimic, Group of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. He's voting for two candidates. Therefore, the voice box, which will be surrounded by more than two numbers before the names of the proposed candidates, will be invalid. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled vote shall also be invalid, and there shall also be an invalid ballot from which the Member's will is not clear. However, if there are two or less numbers on the ballot, but the Member's will in the surrounding numbers is not clear, the ballot shall be considered valid, but only in the part where the Member's will is visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the two candidates for which the majority of the Members who cast the votes in force will be elected and will receive the maximum number of votes. If the two candidates do not receive the required majority in the first vote, a second vote shall be taken, which shall vote on the number of candidates to be elected. The second vote shall vote on those candidates who have obtained the most votes in the first vote. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 3:10 p.m. and will last until 15.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 15.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u155	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to a closed 23rd point, this is the Candidate List for the members of the Council of Justice. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote for two members of the Council of Justice. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 18 June 2015. 81 ballots were distributed. 81 ballots were delivered. There were seven invalid ballots. There were 74 valid ballots. The candidates received the following number of votes: Mrs Nataša Erjavec 16 votes, Dr Vid Jakulin 24 votes, Mrs Maja Pravječek 44 votes and Dr Grega Strban 48 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes cast by the Members who gave the votes in force, Dr Greg Strban and Mrs Maja Pravicek were elected as a member of the Council of Justice. I congratulate the elected member and the member of the Council of Justice, and wish them every success in the performance of their duties. At the same time, I thank all the members of the Council of Justice for their work, whose term of office is due next month. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Slovenj Gradec. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election of Ms Silva Jančič to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. So we have an election in court. Let me begin by saying that the Group of Members will not support either this candidate or the next one. This will continue to be the case. The underlying reason is not in the candidates, the fundamental reason is in the system which the MVK knows well and you did not want to accept. But it's one question. The Council of Justice is the one who conducts the procedures in accordance with the law and checks the conditions and everything else, while the Supreme Court is the one who says if we need it in this court, we don't need it there. The problem we have is that in this case, and as the President of the Council of Justice has said, they do not intend to explain why they need something in the future. In a situation where the National Assembly does not have information that a court, say in Slovenia Gradec, Kranj or anywhere, needs certain judges because, for example, the three have retired, I am referring to whether they will retire in some small court means a relatively large number and it is entirely logical that in such cases we should appoint new judges. [[...]] But we don't get this information. We don't get that information. So we must blindly believe what the Supreme Court signs. We don't have data on some personnel projections for six months, for a year, for two years, for five years or anything. However, we have information that judges are about once too many — once too many — to some other countries or to an average of 100,000. We have cases of judges writing letters to the Commission of Power and calling for God, stop appointing new judges, if we have nothing to do. Judges. They're not anonymous. These are the judges who sign the name and surname. We believe that we are in some way creating an unjust situation, and we believe that the Mandate-Electorial Commission must have such information before it is decided. We cannot be trusted blindly and because it is the Council of Justice because the Supreme Court has said that there and there they need so many and so many new judges as the voting machine simply press the button. Knowing that citizens pay once too much for the courts and knowing that we have too many judges. The Council of Justice is not even prepared to request information from the Supreme Court as to why. The mandate-election commission is not ready, at least it seemed that it would call the Supreme Court itself to explain why they needed a new judge here or there. I'm aware we can do something wrong. The candidates we have today and the next point before us can be excellent candidates. One of them is also, according to what we have learned about him and what has been said about him. But it is not possible to agree at the same time to appoint new judges, but we do not know what the staffing needs of a court are and why they are. As I said before, a small court with five, six judges can get into a situation when three of them retire, and it is imperative that we listen to the Supreme Court and get new judges as soon as possible. On the other hand, we have cases where such a human resources problem can be solved in larger courts. But the ruling President of the Mandate-Volution Commission and everyone else is not prepared to do so. You are not prepared to make the Commission's mandate available with all the information to be able to appoint someone, because that is also a real need. This is not how we land, and this is why we cannot expect and cannot support candidates who can also be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u157	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate by Members on the electoral proposal. Mr Jani Möderndorfer spoke only.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Today, we will decide on something that has been discussed in the profession for some time, whether it is right that the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is or not. Today we have even read that one of the constitutional lawyers wrote down and said that decision - making or recruitment is political deliciousness. Either way, however, it is a fact that I am convinced that if we are already deciding on something, we need to know what and why we are deciding and, more importantly, whether we agree on it or not. Because if it's the opposite, then I'm going to say once again: I don't have myself for, rhetorically speaking, Queen Elizabeth, that someone will tell me what I have to do with the protocol, and that I have to press a button here to make someone happy. That's the way I'll never agree to work. My purpose today is not to discuss whether it is appropriate or not, because I personally believe that it is one of those powers that should have been decided long ago by another authority. However, I believe that this would require significantly more political consensus and a higher level of consensus in order to make such a change. It is not true that in 25 years, as I read in this article today, the National Assembly never allowed this to be taken away. It is true that in the last century under the rule of Dr. Janez Drnovšek, there was one attempt to transfer such a decision to another body. It is true that there was no political will, for there was political supremacy after the recruitment. I personally believe that if we decide, then I expect us to have at least the right answers to what we have asked on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We didn't get those answers, so explain what you want. Go look at the record, go look at the document. The question raised was very decisive, clear, and there were no such answers. If I don't get answers, I still don't know if it's right to vote in favour. And I am sure that sometimes it may take a very clear conflict to bring about a new quality. But if we're going to make a conflict because of the conflict, we don't even know why we're doing it, and if you agree to it, fine. I personally will no longer agree to this role. I will therefore vote against this very clearly. Even those who make proposals to the National Assembly for hygiene and protocol if they want and insist on explaining why. I think we're worth at least enough to get those answers. Otherwise, we really need to ask ourselves the meaning of what we are doing. Everything else, to say what the second branch of power is and whether it makes sense or not — for God's sake, why not change it if that is true? Let's change that! Do we have that courage? Do we have that will? Or let us be clear that we do not want to change that! Not reading and listening to experts what the rest of socialism is, what we didn't give ourselves and what we took. Once again before the entire assembly: once the constitution has been written, the President of the State is on purpose, because of his name and surname, because he knew who the President of the State would be, he has not been given certain powers, and the same is true in his recruitment. If this is the only message, so be it! My message is clear: The time has come for the National Assembly to make no decisions. However, only the National Assembly can make this change. So there's no excuse anyone has to take care of it. Coalition, it's your turn. You have this power, you have this desire, you have this energy, will you change that? Just don't ask me why it hasn't happened so far. Because so far there has been no conflict, and now you have it. Change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u159	This concludes the debate. I'm putting to the vote a motion for a decision on election Do you want to proceed procedurally? [[...]] An explanation of the voice? I'll read the conclusion first. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Silva Jančič to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. Explanation of the voice in its own name, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you follow this meeting, I will explain my vote, i will vote against it. We recently voted on the judge in this National Assembly and unanimously rejected it. We also unanimously rejected a similar judge from Slovenia Gradec on the previous commission. For my vague reasons, this judge returned to the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the time I was on leave. That is why I explain my voice and support what I have said several times: we do not go to the judicial branch of power, but we simply demand that they explain to us why and where the grounds for the increase in judges. And secondly, which Dr. Gorenak has not stressed so much, we are interested in transparent criteria for decision-making, which is what the Council of Justice also advocates, because it itself says that there is a need for gradual progress in the progress of judges. This is more about the ignorant relationship between the judiciary and the legislative branch than the interference in this branch. I hope that the Members will vote on their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u161	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Branko Zorman. Igor Zorčich? You don't? Then don't. I thought I saw that. Then what if that's the explanation? [[...]] All right, let's check in. Apparently there's too many of you. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. A very lively and interesting debate took place on this topic on the Commission's mandate. I think that the last four meetings of the Mandate-Election Commission have served with a rather high-quality debate on the spirit of improving a democratic standard. We were the only Members of Parliament that, if we decide to appoint a judge, we would like to have the relevant information before that. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always advocated positions of transparency and that good candidates are key to improving the quality of the judiciary, but that we must have adequate information if we are to choose the right candidates. There have been some changes at the last meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Indeed, colleague Dobovška was not present at this meeting. Therefore, in accordance with our tradition, given that we did not have adequate information, I will not vote or abstain from voting. Given that the position of each SMC member is also the position of the coalition at the last meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I believe that the coalition will also vote on its own conscience, and we will abstain from this good practice, which was launched on the Mandate-Volution Commission, this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u163	A self-explanation of the vote, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. As I said in the position of the Group of Members, I will not support this proposal myself. But I want to point out one thing. Whoever we appoint in this country, whoever we love in this National Assembly on behalf of anyone, is seated on that chair by the proposer. The President of the Republic, as you know, is also sending Mrs. Kovac, Secretary General. And she goes there and she explains the proposal. And this is the institute of the President of the Republic. However, as you can see, the judiciary has a constant practice — which I have pointed out for the third time — I think — that no one is sitting on that chair. This is because the Council of Justice considers 90 members of the National Assembly to be a voting machine or a mill if you want. Just like you're grinding nuts, so they think we're sitting here like some kind of machine that has to press for. Even more! In some of the positions we have received, let's say at the last meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, they make it very clear that Members have a technical task to press the button; they have no other option; any different conduct of Members would be interference with the judiciary, influence on the judiciary. That's what Mr. Vladi, President of the Council of Justice says. I told him I couldn't humiliate myself so much that I'd agree to be someone's voting machine. And I also expect from a majority in this National Assembly that such a practice will resist and that we will ask Mr Vlad to come here to take a stand for a speaker and explain the proposal. If the President of the Republic does so, if all the other candidates they have do so, then the crown will not fall out of his head if he comes here and explains it. In short, I can't support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u165	Apparently, there's still an explanation for the vote in their own name, so I'm asking you to apply. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I will summarize only the debate, the long debate we have already had on this subject in the framework of the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which has highlighted the problems that colleagues are now facing. There are two fundamental problems. I do not know whether, for the first time or again in this mandate, the State Assembly is under-staffed in this responsibility. This means that he does not get all the information, what we have heard, transparent information for him to make a comprehensive decision. At our additional request or invitation to the Council of Justice to present this to us as specific candidates, the Council of Justice has done so, as far as it has been within its jurisdiction. It has been shown that one of the fundamental issues, namely the need for a judicial branch of power for an individual court, is not within their jurisdiction, but within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Therefore, we have not received as comprehensive information as we need them in order to be able to make a comprehensive and transparent decision. This was one part of the problem that remains and that is a call for us to sit down and think about such a system for the future. However, the second part of the problem is a completely individual problem for these candidates who apply in such a system, with such shortcomings, in these places, and are not guilty or liable to such situations. For this reason, then, the SMC Task Force on the Mandate-Election Commission said that individuals cannot be blamed and victims of such a system, and gave them support. For this reason, I will vote for both this candidate and the next candidate. For this reason, primarily, taking into account all the risks that may arise. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u167	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. We have a systemic problem. We have a coalition in which the lawyers' lobby predominates. We have the opposition. We have a duty to solve this systemic problem in one way or another. If this is just a matter of thirst, we have such arrangements that we will long for the president of the country, and we will not be an electoral mill to paraphrase Mr Gorenak. As long as this is so for the people who are putting their applications for advancement into such a system, I will abstain from voting. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u169	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 23. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the Assembly a proposal on the election of Mr Uroš Ferjan to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u170	We've reached a kind of paradox. I hope we know how to untangle him. We have a candidate in front of us who meets all the criteria, according to the Council of Justice. In fact, the candidate is not a problem. The problem is somewhere else. The problem is that we simply do not have a list before us, in front of Slovenia, where we will simply draw where this accessibility must be effective, and what little we put and imagine how some thing will work – and that in another branch of power, if you understand what I want to tell you. It's just not our job. And as long as we do this in the National Assembly, I promise you that I will remind you of this every single time. Every single time. It is also true that I am increasingly and more aware that the court does not even know that it is its branch of power. She doesn't even know. Because the alarms should have been ringing somewhere else a long time ago, and we're going to continue this circus. I therefore once again warn you that all of this must be stopped very quickly and effectively. But we can only do this if we change and if we show us this will because we are the only ones with a scissors and a canvas, no one else. This cannot be done by the judicial branch of power; this cannot be done by the executive branch of authority; only the legislative branch of authority can do so. If we understand that, fine. But if not, not with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u171	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Uroš Ferjan to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief because there's really no need to talk much. We will do as we did with the previous candidate. I would like to point out - I know that there is no debate on this, President - what Mrs Lipicer said. Look, because the problem is solved, only Mr. Horvat must ask the Supreme Court, end, end. I don't know why we're complicated. In parallel to what we get on the table by the Council of Justice, let the Supreme Court explain why, and tell us what personnel problems he has here, what he has there, and so on. And we're going to solve the problem, and we're not going to do the wrongs -- because now we can do the wrongs, you know, to individual candidates. But I'm glad that at least some of them followed what I was talking about. Let's solve the problem wisely, in a way that also gets information from the Supreme Court, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u173	Is there any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 22. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Department, for the permission of the National Assembly to initiate criminal proceedings against Ambassador Janko Vebra. The request was referred to the National Assembly by the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Department. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly under Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Section No.: II Apr 36371/2014 of 28. 5. 2015 for a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against Member Janko Vebra for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 160, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, relating to the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Member Janko Webr. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The Government proposes to the National Assembly that it appoint a mag as members of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Mount Chibei, mag. Mr Andrej Zupančič and Mr Primož Damjanović. In order to further explain the proposal for appointment, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Insurance Supervisory Agency plays an extremely important role in the field of insurance since it supervises the insurance market in Slovenia, i.e. entities on this market, i.e. insurance companies, insurance intermediaries, insurance agents and insurance intermediaries. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act extended the powers and scope of the Agency’s tasks to the granting of licences to pension companies and to the exercise of control over their operations. An important role in the smooth execution of the Agency's tasks and responsibilities shall also be played by its expert board, which shall decide on the authorisations and consents and on other individual matters decided by the Agency in accordance with the law, adopt rules where the law provides for such an act to be adopted by the Agency, adopt the Agency's rules of procedure, report on the insurance situation and annual report on the Agency's work, adopt an annual work plan for the Agency's professional services and carry out other tasks. The Section shall consist of a President acting as Director of the Agency and four members appointed for a period of six years and may be reappointed. The Insurance Act lays down the conditions to be met by candidates for a member of the Professional Council. In addition to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, university education and impunity, emphasis is placed on their professional skills. The three of the current four members of the Council of Experts expired on 8 June and the Government decided, on the basis of a public call, to propose new members to the National Assembly for appointment, namely mag. Mount Chibei, mag. Andrej Zupančič and Primož Damjanović. Mag. Gorazd Chibei is a Master of European Law. He is employed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency as Branch Secretary and performs the most demanding tasks in the legal field. Mag. Andrej Zupančich is a master of science. He shall be employed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency as Branch Secretary and shall carry out checks on the operations of the Supervisors. He has already performed the functions of a member of the Agency's expert board in this mandate. Primož Damjanović is a university graduate economist and works at the Securities Market Agency as assistant director and head of the Investment and Pension Funds sector. He is also a member of the expert board of the Securities Market Agency. It has an in-depth knowledge and extensive experience in the regulation and supervision of investment and pension funds and contributes to the quality of the decisions of the UNSCR. The government considers that the proposed candidates are suitable for the performance of the tasks of the Agency's professional board of Insurance Supervisors as they have the necessary expertise and experience in the necessary areas of insurance, finance or economic law. It takes into account all the above, I propose that the National Assembly approve the appointment of the proposed members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u175	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members! There was also a rather lively debate on this topic on the Commission's mandate. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been reminded of the alleged politicisation of all the major bodies that have been happening recently. In fact, one of the candidates for this council is a prominent member of the SMC. Until recently, we have found that he is a member of the Party Council and was also a candidate for Member in Kočev. In the debate, we stressed the importance of the independence of all supervisory functions, in particular in institutions dealing with the business sector, which is a highly professional area. If we compare the previous composition of the world and this composition of the world, we can see that this is a step towards greater politicisation, which is why we voted against such a composition in this respect in the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Let me also mention that the coalition in its coalition contract, under the heading of the Equal Opportunities Policy for All, stated the following sentence or measure: "We will support the balanced representation of women and men in the leading cities." This proposal does not fulfil such a coalition requirement, and we will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u177	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there are no applications for debate, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing mag as members of the expert board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Gorazd Chibej, Primož Damjanović and Mag. Andrej Zupančich. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, and on the reasons and responsibility for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly and published on the e-club. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the Alliance Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u178	We decided or talked about this commission of inquiry at the MVK for quite some time, and I must say that today the MVK meeting was called to a quick meeting just because of this point, in order for it to end quickly, a kind of one, especially because it was very quickly seen that there was a serious agreement between the two largest parties in the National Assembly, namely SMC and SDS. What exactly is the problem? The only problem is that, as we have looked at this investigation in the previous term, it will now continue in this mandate, and I hope to predict for myself what the interim or final report will be, if this happens, which I do not believe – it will be very clear that everyone else is guilty, only the SDS or then the government of Janez Janša had nothing to do with this banking system. From this report, it will be more or less clear who will lead this committee, because this is about as if a fox were to be kept in a henhouse by chickens. It won't work. Such a commission will not produce any results. That's more or less clear. And I have nothing personal against Mr. Logar that we will not get along wrong, far from it. But it's not going to work because it's a client principle and the case is pre-destroyed. We simply will not vote for such a commission. In addition, I think it was an ideal opportunity for SMC to take responsibility and lead this committee. That's not what she decided to do. She's not burdened by it, she hasn't participated in any government so far. We could at least impress the impartiality of this story, and it looks like we didn't decide that. Okay, go ahead, do your job the way it is, but we're not doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u179	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. We have been skeptical of this committee since we voted that the Commission will be. We did not vote against it, but we were abstaining because we hoped that the Commission would have at least a partially credible leadership and that it would be able to objectively judge who was responsible for the hole in the Slovenian banking system. There is no secret that much of this hole was created in the years during the crisis, when this country was led by a party that is now supposed to investigate the bank hole. This commission will, excuse me, be a farce, so the United Left, like the predecessor Jani Möderndorfer and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, cannot participate and we will vote against the composition of this commission today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u181	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We will support this parliamentary investigative commission in our parliamentary group. However, I would like to return a few months ago and recall that our Group doubted that at this point, at this stage, a parliamentary commission of inquiry was needed, because we know that the current issue of the banking situation in the country was the reason for this proposal and that, within all its powers, our National Assembly had already carried out those activities which it was able to carry out under its authority. Further clarifications regarding current and past developments in the banking system were also provided by the Bank of Slovenia, and specifically by the current Governor. The government also took note of all the activity. So at that point, we did not assess the need to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry. However, since it was the opposition's initiative to set up this parliamentary commission of inquiry despite all these facts, we have not opposed this and have proposed from the outset that we, with one member, will participate constructively, responsibly and under all the powers of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, also in this commission. We are aware of the fact that the Government is also setting up a special government investigative commission in the meantime for this same issue, that the law relating to the functioning of the banking system is being amended and that the opposition must have its proper place in such an important state-of-the-art issue. In our decision to cooperate in the way we now do, there was no need to negotiate, trade or manipulate anything politically. However, we will, and we will ensure this, within all the powers that come upon us, responsible, transparent and comprehensively carry out our mission and our role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u183	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u184	President, thank you for your word. It's nice to look on the left side of the hall and see nice smiles on your faces. We will see what this story will look like when the Commission gives its report if it ever does. What was the biggest obstacle to our group? This is the procedure in which representatives are to be appointed to the commission of inquiry — whether each parliamentary group proposes one by one or a number of Members who occupy their seats in the Parliament’s benches. Finally, we have found that if a proposal is made by one third of Members, then each parliamentary group has one at a time on the Commission, and that the fact is that it is the Member Group that made the request, not the one that made its proposal. In the SDS Group, as well as in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, this matter was explained both in the initial phase of the discussions at the SDS Mandate-Electorial Commission, the opposite opinion of the Business Regulation as well as in the Modern Centre Party. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have decided to reject this proposal for the most part, despite the fact that we will also participate in the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u185	The SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. If something needs to be investigated in this country, including in parliamentary work, it is certainly a bank hole that is now about four or five times larger, or more times as much as TES. As regards the reasons for the emergence of the bank hole, it should be noted here that these reasons are only in a small part linked to the economic and financial crisis that occurred at the end of 2008 and continues far longer than elsewhere in the world. Most of the reasons for the bank hole in Slovenia are linked mainly to the poor part of those who managed the banking system. This is a mass of missed investments financed by the banking system within the Republic of Slovenia and also through investments in the former brotherly republics. In this segment, billions of euros have disappeared, and Slovenia has not endured this back completely. The second part of the reasons is also the cheap loans received by some of the friends of those who are today the loudest so that this commission of inquiry will not be established. We also had an investigative commission in this National Assembly investigating the low-cost bank loans to Ultra and to someone else. However, it is obvious that the outcome of the investigation has been the result and that the outcome of this investigation will also depend mainly on those involved in this investigation committee. If the members of the Commission of Inquiry show the intention to investigate this, then the results of this investigation will also come, as with some others, where this desire has been established. However, if the investigation is going to take place as announced by individual Members or representatives of the parliamentary groups, it is said that you will participate in the investigative committee in order to block the work of the investigative commission and then there may be problems. Part of this bank hole has been created recently mainly by funding certain projects, such as the capital. The problem is that these credits, which have now been granted for certain public intervention projects, are now in the public position of both the former Prime Minister and the Minister to intervene in the banking system for certain loans, for example for the Stožice project. The problem is that these projects have now become socialised. This is not the problem of the Ljubljana Municipality, but is the problem of Slovenian taxpayers, and some have been very actively involved. I'm sure Mr. Möderndorfer knows them with names and surnames. Perhaps he has helped further, and so on. In short, those who interfere with the work of the commission of inquiry will do so for a reason, especially a personal reason. In short, I suggest we support this investigative commission. I also suggest that those of you who will be members of this commission of inquiry take your task seriously, responsibly, and to find out what some media have already found, that is to say that in large cases it was mainly a matter of exhaustion from the banking system, of re-analysis of funds, of political investment and of similar stories. With regard to our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to set up an investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u187	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I now give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament, and because there are quite a few, I ask you to apply. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. There's not much of us, but the fact that I've been here for 11 months listening to a lot of talk about ethics, morality, new politics, and so on, I often feel like I'm sitting on some kind of mix of theological-political-philosophy. Here we have to separate two dimensions. One dimension is how this committee is formed and who is chairing it, and the other is how we came into this state. And now here I'm listening to some ping-pong between the SDS and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, a little bit of a growl, a little bit of each other. But we have a condition like this. And "crazy" in Maribor doesn't growl if I can be a little bit patriotic. On the other hand, I agree with most of this because Mr Tanko said, and as a result of the Commission's substantive agreement, no one who has been in control of Slovenian politics for the past 15 years and a party who has been a key party in the government in this millennium should preside. If anyone, if I say so directly, would be able to lead New Slovenia, if not the United Left. Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u189	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u190	We can't support this, but if it were New Slovenia, but we could get the late Bajuk out, it could be a problem again. So the question is, are we going to get to the bottom of this? And it's a great honor to Mr. Bayuk that we don't get it wrong, but some evil languages would abuse it. That is why I have made very clear what you have seen from today's demonstration and the implementation of our colleague, Mr Tank, of what this commission of inquiry will look like. Today, he has foretold which direction he will go and who he will look for and so on. It therefore grieves me that this uncertainty will not be involved in the matter, the accuracy of one objective being to respond to the political responsibility of individuals, so that, on the basis of this report, they can even make a proposal for criminal charges and so on. That's not gonna happen. Once again, this will be one of the tools of the political struggle, where the defence of itself will be done, and it will look for the opponents themselves. That's why it's a waste of time, money and energy that's going to be spent, because in the end, we're not going to get anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-18-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u191	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 19. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
