ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Vojka Šergan by 3 p.m., Mr Uroš Prikl, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Mag. Bojan Krajnc, Mr Jan Mahnic from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker by 12 p.m., Mr Igor Zorčič by 1 p.m., Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Ivan Prelog by 3 p.m. and Mr Danilo Anton Ranc by 11 p.m. All present, welcome. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u2	Good morning, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence provides for a means of providing compensation to victims of war and post-war violence for non-material damage, type and amount of compensation, the manner and time limits for their payment, the records of beneficiaries under the law governing the correction of injustices, and other questions relating to the enforcement of legal decisions on the amount of compensation. Article 12 of the Act provides that the competent authority shall, on an official basis, transmit an act on the recognition of this compensation to the Slovenian State holding company. On the basis of that act and the criteria laid down by law, SDH shall calculate the amount of compensation and issue a decision accordingly. Article 12 of the existing law provides that the competent authority of SDH must send the act with all the data, including the tax number of the beneficiary. Obstacles related to the acquisition of a tax number from beneficiaries living abroad are often the reason why the Commission's decisions cannot be sent to SDH for enforcement after several months following the decision to request recognition of status and rights. For that reason, it is proposed to delete the tax number as a compulsory data for sending SDH as a competent authority or to replace that tax number with another corresponding identification number in the beneficiary’s country of residence. From 2002 to the end of May this year, €290 million was paid by law. We estimate that, on the basis of this simplification, a few hundred applications can be definitively resolved in procedures for the enforcement of compensation rights and that the law can then be fully implemented. The government supports the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and proposes to the National Assembly that amendments to the law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u4	Your Honor, the President, thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at the 17th session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 11. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. At the meeting of the committee, the amendment to the draft law was tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2 of the bill. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the draft law and stressed that it was a technical solution that would facilitate the execution of procedures, which would reduce the administrative burden on beneficiaries who are non-residents of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments to Article 2 of the bill. The representative said that the comment was fully taken into account by the proposed amendment. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment tabled to the article of the draft law. The Committee adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u6	Nicely greeted. Thank you for your word. In the United Left we add this law among the laws with which the restaurant capitalism was executed in Slovenia. This is also one of those laws that reconciled the right and so-called left parts of the Slovenian political class. Slovenian citizens know very well the law on denationalisation and its economic and political consequences. According to the data of 31 December 2014, it has thus been privatised for 2 billion and 92 million total assets of our citizens. Of these, there were 834 million agricultural land and forests. Among other things, this created an economic basis for the influence of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. This influence is now so great that Catholic priests, despite the constitutional separation of the state from the church, are employed in the Slovenian Army and the Police. The political ambitions of the Catholic Church are so great that they want to impose their ideology on public schools as well, and they want to impose their backward views on marriage and family. The Act on Compensation for Victims of War and Post-war Violence is part of these processes. It is an extension of the law on the correction of injustices, which was adopted in 2003 as another compromise between the right and the left, of course at the expense of the common property. In our opinion, the Law on the Correction of Blame defines the beneficiaries significantly too widely. It provides that any so-called political prisoner is entitled to compensation, whether he has committed an alleged crime or not. The law does not provide that the beneficiary should obtain a review of the conviction. Moreover, the audit is not a criterion because the Supreme Court has in general annulled such judgments on the basis of flat-rate findings that the rule of law was not respected. However, it did not verify the actual situation and actions that have repeatedly involved economic crime and indeed harmful phenomena. Here are cases of illicit speculation and trade, damage to state and cooperative property and so on. When compensations were discussed for deleted persons, all demanded individual treatment. Those deleted inhabitants who did not return to Slovenia were excluded. However, when it comes to alleged postwar injustices, a flat-rate annulment of judgments is sufficient. Of course, in the United Left, we know that this technical amendment to the law will not have a significant impact on law enforcement, but we will not support the amendment of laws that revise history and support the political and economic influence of the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State Mr Dragonja, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, Mr President, I hope you will read your magnetogram. What Miha Kordiš from the United Left just said is not true and there is no room for spreading falsehoods and insults. And please, Mr President, in view of his position during this meeting of the National Assembly, you are also taking action. Your Honor! In fact, the proposal for today's amendment of the Law is only a minor amendment to the legal text, which, according to the content, removes unnecessary administrative obstacles to the exercise of rights under this Act. In particular, it is a matter of deleting the mandatory notification of the tax number of the recipient of the compensation. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will, of course, support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, as it is one of the basics of our programme, namely the Christian Democrats Programme, to remove administrative obstacles. On this occasion, however, we must draw attention to the important unresolved issue of the payment of material war damage. The bill on compensation for war and post-war violence solves the issue of material harm to victims of war and post-war violence. Of course, with regard to today's law, it would certainly be necessary to draw attention to the extremely low compensation for this intangible damage, which is not comparable to other compensations. We should certainly have a broad parliamentary debate on this issue once. However, the topic of payment of material war damage, where we have not yet dealt with the legal solution of this matter, is also striking. In our parliamentary offices, injured persons are being advertised and, of course, their successors are now showing the documents of the postwar census and the assessment of the war damage suffered during World War II and are calling on us to regulate the legal basis for the enforcement of this damage. The adoption of the Denationalisation Act was the legal basis for the recovery of assets that was seized or maintained by the beneficiaries by post-war revolutionary regulations after 16. 5. 1945. However, the law in question did not cover the interwar period. Thus, we have cases where compensation was granted to denationalising beneficiaries for maintained facilities, but in a state of state at the time of the holding, that is, after the war, meaning in particular that they received compensation for land where there were only ruins. The amount of compensation received is not nearly adequate to the value of the facility as the beneficiary had before the war. Of course, we also have a number of injured persons who, because of a war - torn home, were in the role of exiles and had to seek a home elsewhere, perhaps even abroad, or to build it again. Solutions to the area of payment of material war damage will have to be made sooner than before, and on this occasion I also call for the preparation of appropriate legal bases for this area as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u9	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I would just like to warn you that the positions are not controversy and such accounts with the United Left behind the pay phone are not correct. If there is a procedural hindrance already at work, let it intervene with a procedural instrument, as I have just done, but let it not be abused in any way for such accounts. Things happened. That's too bad. But I would like to remind you that such a story will not be repeated in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u11	Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u12	I also ask that the pay phone not be abused for widespread ideological warfare, as you have done in your position. My colleague, Mr Jože Horvat, added this because he had already reported to the procedural office and unfortunately he had not been heard by the President. You're spreading hate speech, and this is where the president should act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u13	Before I give you anything further procedural and whatever it is that we're very clear. We're at a point called the position of the parliamentary groups. The views of the parliamentary groups are very broad and often contain, without notice, an ideological component. In this yours was an ideological component, here was an objection to this ideological component. We're not going to solve this matter with the procedural ones themselves. But the fact is that there is no debate here for Members, because they are only the views of the groups of Members, they are virtually impossible to clear ideological content. The question is whether it's getting confusing or not. I don't want to confuse this on the one hand and say, yeah, there can't be any ideologicality, because the line between where it is and where it isn't is very difficult to put. But I really don't want to say now that this has been said, and what my colleague wanted to say as the first presentation of the position of the United Left Group and, on the other hand, the objection to this matter, I do not want us to pursue the debate on this issue procedurally. Please do not use procedurally for discussion. That's the first part of the story. The second part of the story, however, is that, yes, firstly, I admit that the ideological component was very clearly present and secondly, the objection to this ideological component, which is more or less intended to present the position. Look, I think at least as far as this law is concerned, enough has been said and I don't want to proceed with procedural matters. But I'm not going to give you a reminder of that, and we've all noticed what happened, whether you want to or not, it was clearly exposed. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, procedurally, I think you both have a procedural basis. All right, one more round of procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u14	Mr President, one is an ideological debate and the other is an hateful and false speech. And I would expect you, as President of Parliament, to give a reminder for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u15	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Presidents, I agree with this last intervention of yours. I only hope that this intervention is over. But if we're going to continue with this charade, I'd like to remind you of two. First, there has been an abuse of the position instrument of the Joint Left Group, and then there has been an abuse of the procedural procedure for the substantive rounding of our position. It is true that this item does not provide for debate, but I do not think that this is still the reason why the instrument of procedural abuse is still being used. And now I want to close this debate. And for its conclusion, I would only ask you, Mr President, you have quite a bit of academic backdrop behind you, and you know very well what hate speech is and what it isn't. Perhaps you can connect the bow tie to this debate by defining this hate speech, because it is totally unacceptable for me to listen on the left of the accusations about how we use the hate speech, of course it does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u17	What I'm going to do is I'm going to check the Verbatim record of what was said, maybe it contains these elements or not. On the basis of these verbs, at the end of this point, I will tell you what I mean, whether this matter deserves a reminder or not. Can we continue now? The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. The Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence provides for a means of providing compensation to victims of war and post-war violence for non-material damage and deals with all other issues relating to the enforcement of legal decisions on the amount of compensation. The law also provides in Article 12 that the competent authority shall, on an official basis, send the act by which it has decided on the beneficiaries and their rights to the Slovenian State Holding Company, which shall, on the basis of that act and the criteria laid down in that Act, calculate the amount of compensation and issue a decision thereon. Article 12 of this Law also provides that the competent authority of SDH must send the act with all the data, including the tax number of the beneficiary. This means an unnecessary administrative obstacle to administrative procedures in the sector to remedy the injustices of the Ministry of Justice, which conducts professional tasks for the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the Law on the Correction of Blame. And obstacles related to the acquisition of a tax number from beneficiaries living abroad are often the reason why the Commission's decision cannot be sent to SDH for enforcement even after several months after the decision on the application for recognition of status and rights. Therefore, in this proposal, it is proposed to delete the tax number as necessary for sending the act of the competent authority to SDH. This is therefore a technical solution that will facilitate the execution of procedures, which will reduce the administrative burden on beneficiaries who are non-residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill therefore removes unnecessary administrative obstacles to procedures for the enforcement of compensation rights. The Modern Centre Party Group agrees with the proposed amendment of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence and will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u20	Mr President, the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! The law on compensation to victims of war and post-war violence sets out how to provide for compensation to victims of war and post-war violence, for non-material damage, types and amounts of compensation, lays down the manner and time limits for their payment, lays down records of beneficiaries under the law governing the correction of injustices, and other questions relating to the enforcement of legal decisions on the amount of compensation. The law was adopted in 2001 and from 2002 to the end of May 2015, 109 000 908 decisions were issued and 298 million Euros were paid for. This amount mainly covers compensation for internants, mobilisers and victims of war and post-war violence. The law in force in Article 12 provides that the competent authority shall send the act by which it has decided on the beneficiaries and their rights to the Slovenian State holding company, acting on an official duty, which shall calculate the amount of the compensation and issue a decision. The third indent of the second paragraph of that Article provides that the competent authority must send an act to the Slovenian State holding company with all the information, including the tax number of the beneficiary. In the enforcement of the law, this provision has proved to be an obstacle to people who have permanent residence outside Slovenia or who are tax residents outside Slovenia and do not have these tax numbers. The amendment therefore proposes to delete the tax number as necessary for sending the act of the competent authority to the SDH, while supplementing the law by adding that the claim for compensation must also contain a tax number or identification number for tax purposes and a country of residence if it is a beneficiary or recipient who is not a resident of Slovenia and does not have a tax number. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In Slovenia alone, we have made important decisions, including the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. And if the law is adopted, it must also be enforced. However, the implementation of this specific law has shown that it is not possible, however, to carry out procedures which are sufficiently efficient, transparent and particularly in the interest of the injured persons, so today we have before us the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence, which in fact removes administrative obstacles to the payment of damages following the decision of the competent authority. Therefore, the Special Commission dealing with all these cases must also forward the beneficiary tax number to the Slovenian State Holding Company, which has inherited the Slovenian Compensation Company. And the problem arises if the beneficiary lives abroad, so there is no tax number as we know it in Slovenia, and this was a significant obstacle that the process could be successfully completed. In fact, this change removes the data, i.e. the tax number to be transmitted by the competent authority to the Slovenian State holding company. It is true, however, that before the payment takes place, the Slovenian State Holding must receive information on who and which taxpayer is actually paying the compensation. This law will certainly help to speed up the payment of damages to victims of war and post-war violence and, of course, help to ensure that the laws we adopt can also be enforced. On this occasion, however, it is important to note that for all categories of injured persons we have not yet legally regulated everything, so that there is still an inappropriate status of material damage and they are also present daily, I can also say, the efforts of the expulsion society, which fights for their rights or damages owed to Germany. So in relation to Slovenia and taking on this responsibility we have so far been, we can say, successful. However, when it comes to claims that need to be made to other countries that were invaders of World War II in Slovenia, we are overly sorry, and we are also causing a lot of trouble to those who are certainly entitled to compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I'm going to react to that procedure as soon as I've checked the matter to the end. I hope and I think it's 11 o'clock. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Friday, 18th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 12. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on financial transactions and on the procedure for insolvency and forcible cessation. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Today you have before you a proposal for a new law on insolvency, which was tabled by a group of Members of Parliament, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. In the opening, I should say that it is an insolvency law for a regulation which the Government is particularly monitoring and has already drawn up, taking into account the findings in practice, its novelty, which is currently in professional and inter-resort coordination. However, it is clear from the novel, which is in professional and inter-sectoral coordination, that some of the objectives pursued by the proposer in his proposal are clearly seen by the Government as well, but we do not agree with the ways proposed by the proposer, so opposition Members in this case are proposing to achieve the objectives set. The government novelty is therefore intended in particular to introduce additional safeguards to prevent potential abuses in the area of personal bankruptcy and additional arrangements or changes in the regime in the field of simplified enforcement. The proposal that is before you today also addresses, as I said, some of these objectives, but in a way that is different from ours and in our opinion is not the most appropriate. As I mentioned, the government novelty is already in the process of coordination and, in our belief, appropriately addressing areas that, as has been shown in practice, need further regulation. Although the Government agrees with some of the objectives pursued by the proposer at your table today, as I said, we do not agree on ways, and we also consider that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration for reasons which I will also briefly present. The introductory explanation of the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the changes contains only general indications on the legal regulation of certain institutions so far and a mere general assessment, without indicating specific statistics and analysis of the past and current state of the restructuring procedures of Slovenian companies in difficulty and ongoing insolvency proceedings. All these procedures, with the assistance of the Supreme Court and the Implementation Group, which the Minister of Justice specifically appointed to monitor this law, are being monitored up-to-date and have already been presented in the National Assembly. In our opinion, the bill also does not contain a specific assessment of the functioning of the Board of Governors, although, as you have seen, the proposers in this area propose radical changes and there is also no assessment of the conduct of disciplinary proceedings before disciplinary authorities. The review of the comparative legal regime does not show the current regulation in other EU Member States in the insolvency area and in fact represents a literally copied picture of the comparative regulation as already contained in the proposal for a law in 2007. So it's essentially the same explanation that's not being upgraded in anything. And that is why the proposaler does not convince us that his proposals are justified. If I had previously said that the two objectives pursued by the proposer, even in the opinion of the Government, needed some corrections, the area of personal bankruptcy and the regulation of forced settlement were simplified, and there were still a number of solutions in the drafters' materials, which the Government did not consider necessary changes. Let me mention, inter alia, the proposal to reintroduce the mandatory share of the payment and the years in which this is to be achieved. This arrangement, in addition to some others proposed, is, in the opinion of the Government, too rigid and, as I have already said, we also assess that there is no need for changes in the discipline of managers since they are already properly regulated. From all the above, we consider that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u25	First of all, let me explain that apparently the applicants continue to obstruct, which is why they are not present. I only see as a fact that it will be clear why I do not call for words at all. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u26	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The area of insolvency law is inadequately regulated in our legislation, and according to the conviction of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we need a new law on a completely new basis that will be comparable to insolvency law in the more developed countries of the European Union. We can take Austria and Germany for example. The new law must be based on a new starting point when insolvency will arise at all. The basis for insolvency proceedings must already be the inability of the debtor to settle his claims in due course, as regulated by German law. So far, the practice of insolvency proceedings in our country has shown that an arrangement defining the insolvency status of the debtor only after a longer period of insolvency or insolvency means, in most cases, an extension of the insolvent debtor's agony until its final termination or bankruptcy. We do know, however, that in bankruptcy only banks are paid in large part, while other creditors remain, including, in particular, workers, unpaid or paid in low percentages. The timely start of insolvency proceedings would, in our opinion, also allow for a successful financial restructuring of the debtor, and in particular allow for the continuation of such a debtor at least in healthy sails. Another starting point that needs to be changed in legislation is who can even act as managers in insolvency proceedings. Following the current regulation, these are mostly lawyers and other lawyers, which, in our view, is wrong at the very beginning. In our opinion, the post of manager should be reserved for persons with knowledge and experience from management or, even better, from a crisis management that should know not only the rules but also the market and the economy of the insolvency debtor. That way we can keep an insolvent debtor alive. The current practice of conducting bankruptcy proceedings by bankruptcy managers who, with rare exceptions, only understand bankruptcy as the end of the insolvency debtor's business and, as a rule, the bankruptcy manager's work only as an opportunity to earn their profits. The composition of the boards of creditors will need to be reconsidered. The current practice has shown that the majority of creditors' representatives are on the Boards of Trustees, while the other creditors, among whom we expose workers and the State as a creditor, do not have their own representative, if they do, are in a minority and are voted on in all key decisions. News is also needed in the area of personal bankruptcy. In particular, it is necessary to extend the time limit for the review of the debtor's assets in personal bankruptcy. Under the current legislation, this deadline is three years before bankruptcy is introduced. That period should be extended to 10 years. In practice, it happens that a debtor in a personal bankruptcy transfers his assets to family members. After three years, however, it proposes the introduction of personal bankruptcy. It would also be useful to consider restrictions on the admission of personal bankruptcy to those debtors where a certain percentage of the remuneration is provided to creditors. This is 10% in Germany. In fact, the current regime encourages debtors to abuse this institution, for example, Zidar can be recalled by generating as many debts as possible, transferring assets to relatives, and then, after three years, they can fully account for the personal bankruptcy of both debts and the costs of the procedure and their assets. The fact is that the existing legislation does not provide adequate solutions for the efficient conduct of insolvency proceedings and not for the effective financial restructuring of the insolvency debtor. And these solutions cannot be addressed by amending legislation. By amending the law, it is not possible to remedy the shortcomings of legislation in this area, nor can it be addressed further. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats - will therefore not support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Financial Business Act, insolvency procedures and forced termination.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u27	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u28	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In the age of transition, we somehow jumped from one political system to another, and we also had an economic transition, which we did not have a referendum for, nor did we agree with. We have entered capitalism, which has to some extent entered predator capitalism, and as a result are the bankruptcys of companies we have not been used to. Nor was the legislation we had fit for these phenomena. In view of this, we have changed legislation and we are witnessing it today. This is how we find, as well as the debaters before me, that it is inadequate and should be systematically approached with solutions. The proposed solutions are, according to the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, good and a good basis for further discussion and could be addressed by appropriate amendments, which we have already prepared, in order to resolve the situation to a systemic solution, because, as we see, the systemic solutions are not yet in sight. It is also the case that the Council of Justice, the Ministry of Justice itself, notes that something needs to be done in this area. The key to all of this is the management of companies that bring the company into such a situation and should think first of all that things are being resolved when there is some capital, when that healthy core is strong enough to solve matters and there is no forced settlement or bankruptcy. If I focus on the main problems. The previous system and the previous system regulation of the law have led to a loss of money in the courts, as the change has led to the fact that money for bankruptcy was no longer needed to be invested and that is why the courts are in severe financial distress, which is why we have also resolved in Parliament when we had to grant additional funds. The point is that the solution seems appropriate to us that management must think about it first and have at least enough money to carry out the bankruptcy process. However, as far as personal bankruptcy is concerned, I believe that we still have that free legal aid institution, and now such cases, when a court puts money on the table, are being misused and money is not being recovered as envisaged. So, the key is for legal persons to think about it first. As far as forced settlement is concerned, I believe that the proposed solution is better than the current solution. The point is that forced settlement should lead to at least some payment being made to creditors. The analysis of forced settlement shows that the majority of the settlement plan is not being implemented and therefore changes are needed. As such, debtors must contribute more to the process itself. If we said earlier that in the first phase, management is responsible for having so many bankruptcys, in the second phase, what happens to debtors. Debtors themselves have to work more actively in the process and analyse the client first, how and what they enter into these legal transactions. The proposed solution, as with the bankruptcy managers, to make a list of authorized assessors of companies, is very good, because we saw that as long as the judges chose bankruptcy managers themselves, and it was not accidental, then the case of Friends in bankruptcy, which was revealed only after the system order that the judge no longer chooses the bankruptcy manager. That was a good solution. And the same proposed solution is that the debtor himself does not choose, but makes a list and randomly chooses. We in the Group of Unaffiliated Members go even further. We believe that a similar solution is being made in audit procedures. It is said that there is no longer a choice of persons after acquaintances, but these are random solutions according to the pattern, as has already been resolved for bankruptcy managers. These are the good solutions. We could've gone even further. I cannot agree with what they find at the Ministry of Justice that bankruptcy managers are not the key to success. I believe that the regulation of this area is the key to success, and this is the next step. And then the next steps are the valuers and everything that comes along. In this regard, we might also ask ourselves why we need a valuer in certain procedures, but if we already have the estimated properties after Gurs. Why? Don't we believe state institutions?Oh, my God! Then the advisory contracts, which are kind of the breadwinner of the law. In bankruptcy proceedings, we note that bankruptcy managers are over-serviced by these advisory contracts. We now even have advisory contracts and legal opinions. The judges are the ones who take care of the law. Why we need to adapt legal opinions and thus cause the costs of bankruptcy, as well as the costs of various advisory contracts. Thus, this would be wise in this segment of bankruptcy managers to regulate and precisely the provisions of the proposed legislation are going in this direction. I think we could do even better in the process. If I follow any further, I have a very positive opinion that we find that the judge does not control this procedure, but that is what the Board of Directors and the Ministry of Justice do. I welcome the solution to disciplinary procedures. I expect a more active role, as far as the current legislation is concerned, the Ministry of Justice and the Board of Governors would be able to do so. The Court, however, shall ensure that the proceedings are conducted by law and that disputes are decided. This is the role of the court, not that they are trying to attach themselves to the work that bankruptcy managers have to do now. In view of the above, I hope that the Ministry of Justice will consider, as well as the coalition, that the proposed solutions and the amendments can be wisely supported, until we have a system-wide solution as proposed by Nova Slovenija, or that the Ministry of Justice will consider what a new system solution will be, because we know that the economic problems are big, there are still major changes ahead of us, so that we really have to deal with this area well. We will support the proposed proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Financial Business Act has an even longer title than this is very complicated matter. Yes, you've accepted him here in the National Assembly, but only those who actually work with this law can say they know him. This is also often questionable because it is actually very complicated written, even the basic law itself, which has undergone many changes. If you want to change matter, you must first get to know it very well and also know the situation as it is and have a vision of what you want to achieve with changes. It's a shame, really, it's a shame that it's not a colleague of Gorenak to face it in this area. I am very sorry that he is not here to represent his position, to see what else they have to explain in their views. In my opinion and in the opinion of many judges, that old law on forced settlement and bankruptcy was quite good because it was simpler than it is now. For example, there was no personal bankruptcy. This complicates our lives, or I can see why it is, even what the purpose of personal bankruptcy is. This is to free a person from excessive obligations that cannot be settled for the rest of his life and to somehow be able to live a normal life. But this previous law on the course contained the possibility of bankruptcy starting and ending without the appointment of an administrator. Because there is no way in this process that there would be no governor after the current law. We agree that one of the key roles in this process is the role of the manager. This is a person who has a special procedure in accordance with the law and has a key role to play in this process. There is therefore a great deal of attention to be paid to this. But somehow in the history of this still young country, the era of creation of new legislation followed after independence, in which many foreign experts, who were somehow viewed as the only ones called to form legislation, participated as the main in the adoption of legislation, cooperated with the Ministry of Justice. Somehow, there has always been a feeling that it is difficult to get through with a suggestion that would contradict one who knows and knows how to write the law. I have to be honest with you. I know this from practice in court, what laws we have received, how we have or have not had the opportunity to participate in the legislative process. And this was actually written by one person, and I don't have to call it, but that's what we have. When you discuss the motherhood of the Financial Business Act, the long name ZFPPIPP, the shortcut is long, we need to know what the purpose of this law is. We need to distinguish between bankruptcy of a legal person, we can impose a compulsory settlement on a legal person, then this person does not die, even a legal person does not, it is not over, it has its administrations and everything. If bankruptcy starts, the final result of bankruptcy is the death of a legal person. Then we have the personal bankruptcy that this ZFPPIPP introduced in 2008, and I also remember how this started in the District Courts. But a natural person doesn't die, we don't kill her, we don't kill her, because she's in bankruptcy. The main purpose and why in most cases this procedure begins, why in most cases it is proposed by natural persons — debtors — is to achieve discharge. And then we have a trial period in which we're trying to achieve the solvency of this natural person. In my opinion, ZFPPIPP, we have all said this many times, how to put it very nicely is not a very good law. Why isn't he good? Because it regulates a lot of details, it refers cross-references to this article, to those articles, and if you want to figure out what the content is, how to proceed, and also what the rights and duties of the parties in the process and the administrator are, you jump through this law and find out and hunt and need the help of Ius info to open those articles to you, one special program to open the articles to you, because you can't look for it by yourself under that law, you can't find it. You're very difficult to find, and that's a very detailed arrangement of these details. Then it results in the fact that we no longer see the forest from individual trees. However, we have worked very hard on this law, and the Ministry of Justice has worked with experts in this area to improve the existing law. And also to introduce some solutions that would contribute to the acceleration of insolvency proceedings. These procedures are by themselves legally necessary and must be conducted as necessary by the courts and are also guided as necessary procedures. Now there have been many changes to this law of the ZFPPIPP and we believe that to some extent the law has been improved and is now in the stage, as we have also received the government's opinion, in the evaluation phase, but seriously, professional testing and evaluation and analysis of whether these matters are working. We can't change ZFPPIPP every six months, but say, and now you've changed your operating conditions again when we don't even know what we've got and can't even assess whether we've found ourselves. When we change the law, the court, with its entire organisation, has to adapt to what happens in the National Assembly for half a year. And the fact that changes happen quickly tells us that it may be a little reckless. Therefore, when we are planning to change this CAPIPPP, we really need to think deeply and radically about how we prepare these changes and whether we really know matter, whether we have assessed the effects in practice, and how we should now do this, so that we do not complicate this even more so that we do not make it difficult and slow down the procedures that we all agree to speed up. But the basic message is that the case in the courts is going very well also due to the changes that this law has experienced and the courts have organised relatively well, especially since some tasks can also be performed by professional colleagues. In this law there are many such simple tasks that a professional associate can do, and we do not need a judge here, thus burdening the judge himself, who can deal with the trial in this process, which is mostly written. We now believe that it is necessary to wait and correct the ZFPPIPP after considering, in depth and in depth, the Government is already preparing, the working group that is listed in the government's paper, where there are experts and also judges and all who know about this process. Above all, my modest opinion, which I have done in the framework of the District and District Court, is that, because personal bankruptcy has been rapidly introduced, it is all right that we can have the opportunity for a debtor who is in charge of getting out of this situation somehow. Because as a natural person, he will not pay the creditors for the rest of his life, for various reasons. But the problem is how we control this debtor once he's in his probationary years. Most people are not some bastards who want to exploit the process, but the problem is also that period before the bankruptcy process began, whether it was possible to give something, sell it, hide it. That's the problem. However, the problem is that we do not have an orderly control over what a debtor does in a trial age. Many citizens know that someone who is in a trial age should only have a minimum wage and nothing else, personal bankruptcy is not such a simple and innocent matter. A lot of people turned to court as soon as this law was put into effect, if you'll just let us be forgiven for our debts. And now even the pre-emption for the commencement of bankruptcy is taken down by law by the court, so this is free of charge for those who make a proposal for the initiation of personal bankruptcy, but this is a procedure that has very serious consequences for an individual. All that can remain in this procedure for the debtor is the minimum wage. All the property he has, even if he has any real estate, if he gets any property by inheriting it, everything he gets, except the minimum wage, goes to bankruptcy. A lot of people thought, yeah, I'm going into personal bankruptcy because it's free anyway, but then when it finds out that it's not so innocent, because then you have a manager you have to report to, you have obligations in this process, then people would withdraw. But it's not possible to withdraw. That's not the law. The only theoretical option is to pay off all your debts, which you're not capable of if you've suggested personal bankruptcy yourself, etc. I don't want to discuss the details right now. But this process is primarily as long as the trial period, which can be no more than five years from the decision on the beginning of the probationary period, is the question of how, in what way, we either give the mechanism to the judge or the manager, how to control what the debtor actually does, whether it has any assets, or still hides it, or secretly does something. This is what I think that the basic thing that hurts citizens who see that this process may be being used is being abused. Most of the time, they're not all bad guys, and they're in a very bad position. I remember these procedures myself, that I sold the real estate that someone has, Grandma and Grandpa had that property, and then all they had was a pension worth 500 euros and a blocked account for the other creditors, because not all the claims were paid, not at all, but the debts in tens of thousands of euros and the bills are blocked, you can't raise the money from the current account, you can't do anything. And I said, ma'am, please go to personal bankruptcy. The creditor will never get anything from you again, he can't get anything, because you won't earn anything until you die. In such cases, of course, it makes sense. The only important thing is to find out, somehow, whether this solution, to really pay the state at the starting point, is to immediately advance to cover the initial costs of the bankruptcy process translated into the layman's language, these are the costs that the principal bankruptcy manager has, and the publication of the conclusions on the iPad, the manager in this procedure, was formerly the bankruptcy manager. In short, we all pay 2 000 euros to forgive those who have nothing. But, of course, this places a very heavy burden on the courts because these costs go directly from the Court's budget, from free legal aid and the problem is that they never know how many proposals for personal bankruptcy will be. However, because this is unfortunately very popular now, very many of these procedures are still and new bankruptcy proposals, the conditions for the start of bankruptcy are relatively loose and people are using it. I understand that they are being served, but if there is any change, we believe that it is necessary to introduce a change here in this procedure of personal bankruptcy, which may have also been somewhat somewhat premature and somewhat wrongly copied from any other law. I will tell you about the proposed changes and individual solutions later from the bench, but the position of our parliamentary group is that we do not need rapid changes to the law, which would now cause further complications in the process, or that we should end the simplified enforcement settlement. No, no, no. We can't do this right now. If you've been looking at statistics, there's a lot of these simplified forced settlements. If this facilitates and speeds up the process, even if we have an independent entrepreneur, and a micro-enterprise, we will not now implement the whole process for a financial restructuring plan. That's what I'm supposed to say, bang paper, so that makes no sense. The trustees have their rights in the process and are represented. That we now guarantee rights to creditors, to the state, and I don't know what. In bankruptcy proceedings, and in court proceedings at all, politics is not a factor, and we forget it here in Parliament many times. There, it is judged, yes, the creditor has so much and so many claims, and depending on that he has so many and so many rights in the process. One has priority, such as taxes, employees' claims and so on, to a certain extent and so on. And now there's not much political mathematics here, it can't be at all. Rapid, reckless changes, among other things, are opposed by the judiciary, I do not know where anyone has sought to have the justice world now propose these solutions exactly as they are proposed here. As far as insolvency proceedings against legal persons are concerned, they would not be welcome, rather they would benefit from insolvency proceedings in the Republic of Slovenia. We oppose these changes because they are neither justified nor justified, and most of them are not justified, so we also oppose the proposal of a law such as this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u31	Now I'm going to do what I owe from the last point. Three things were confirmed. One is that it was the spreading of falsehoods, insults, and another hate speech. I have looked at the whole matter and what I can define is that it was an ideological assessment of a particular matter, not an hate speech. I will also tell you why and what can be done in such matters. In fact, the definition of hate speech, if we look at what is in our constitution, is considered to be an unconstitutional incentive of any kind, here is a very important aspect of this promotion to national, racial or other equality and the spread of national, racial, religious and other hatred and intolerance. The Penal Code then merely states that this is a criminal offence. Even if I went into a slightly broader definition of the Council of Europe's hate speech, I would not actually find that in there. What is important to know, whenever you feel that an enemy speech is present, it is certainly procedural for you to point to this point, absolutely, or if it is, for example, an insult or an untruth, if one considers it. I'm not gonna check the truths and the untruths. But just the fact that someone claims that this is an untruth or a challenge to this matter is, in my opinion, the goal that has been achieved. That's basically what I was going to say. So in this case, I don't recognize that it would be anything like this, but it is right that we have certain criteria in these matters. When you think this can happen, it's only right to point out that. As long as we are in this House, however, my basic position is that you have procedural options to point out this. I don't need to be directly warned, unless the matter is absolutely self-explanatory, but then I have to react on my own. Otherwise, Parliament is the basic area of freedom of expression and hate speech, and this sharing between one and the other is not as simple as it seems at first sight, and sometimes things really need to be looked at as I have looked at them this time. I hope that this debate is concluded at least for today. Procedurally, Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much, chairman. What you said, of course, I agree with what you just said. As far as I'm concerned, this case has been obvious since the beginning. However, the accusations that fly to the United Left about the use of hate speech and the claim of falsehoods and so forth, you know, these are serious accusations, they begin and deliberately aim at our credibility. Now that it has no doubt been established that this is not such that these accusations do not exceed the substance, I would like them to be so correct on the right side of the Tribunal that they stand up and make excuses for these inexcusable premature words which were, why not, spoken without malice and in the breath of the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u33	I'm telling you, I'm going to answer it myself. I'm not going to have to do anything. I just found out first of all that it wasn't a hate speech. Whether it is the truth or the untruth, I will not find out for myself, nor will I find out for myself, because I am not in God's position, and you know what God's position is. As to whether it was an insult or not, the question is who we recognize as such. He can always warn, and this in itself should not be offensive to the other side. That it is also a Parliament and that, in general, political parties are intended to come from a particular ideology and evaluate from that point, but it is also clear. I do not believe that any terrible violations would have been committed here – except perhaps, but also, in fact, they are more or less procedural, which is why I never interfere with the views of the members of the groups. I am not intruding, in principle, without prejudice, this is a long tradition, something terrible has to happen, for the president to point out that there is something wrong in the position of the Group of Members. And Parliament is a field of debate, so I think we have concluded this procedural story with this, including your procedural one. Okay, I'll also give you, of course, each side always has a procedural option. But if you do it again, we'll be in the field of procedural abuse. He takes the floor as procedural, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for taking so much time and energy to give your view of this debate. We just expect that we may have this right to say that — I will be very direct now — somehow our religious feelings have been attacked. Now I'm going to shut up here, and I'm going to stop because they taught me that those who are silent are going to answer the nine.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you. We're moving on. We are still in the process of presenting the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State Tina Brecelj, distinguished colleague, respected colleague and colleague! I will take the position of the Desus Group, as the President has already announced. The aim of the proposed amendment to the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures is to complement certain fundamental principles with a view to enhancing the protection of creditors. Thus, in order to protect creditors from abuse, they propose, inter alia, the abolition of the Institute of Simplified Forced Settlements. In the Desus Group, we believe that this institution must be maintained, as until the establishment of this institution, the smallest business operators did not have a mechanism available to enable them to actually restructure their claims. Simplification of the enforcement procedure meant significantly cheaper and faster financial restructuring for independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises. If abuse occurs, this Institute of Simplified Forced Settlements should be modified and in no way terminated. Some of the proposed solutions are unnecessary because they are already contained in the applicable law. Thus, for example, by amending the proposal, it is the jurisdiction of the creditor committee to review the business books and the entire documentation relating to the bankruptcy procedure. The law already in force provides that the Management Board shall have the right to review the business books and the entire documentation taken over by the manager in insolvency proceedings and to review the documentation to be kept by the manager in connection with this procedure. In the Desus Group, we believe that the addition of a law to a provision under which the administrator makes a declaration of conscientious and responsible exercise of his duty at the time of taking up his duties is unnecessary. It is already stated in the law in force that one of the conditions for obtaining the post of manager is the statement of the candidate that he will faithfully and responsibly exercise his powers as manager. It is precisely the statement of this candidate that in any insolvency proceedings the manager performs this task and therefore, as I have already said, this provision does not need to be repeated. The existing law also regulates some of the other solutions that this bill is intended to bring. The proposed amendment to the law would also improve the regulation of personal bankruptcy. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the possibility of playing this institute. We've been able to read a lot lately, and we've heard a lot about it in the media. This area needs to be regulated, but with regard to the proposed amendments, I should point out that the debtor in a personal bankruptcy must, following an already existing law to the administrator or the court at his request, provide all the explanations and documents on his assets and transactions that he has carried out in the last three years prior to the initiation of the personal bankruptcy procedure. The current law also provides for the possibility of challenging debtors' legal acts if they were committed within three years of the introduction of personal bankruptcy. In the Desus Group, we believe that there is a need for a thorough examination of the existing situation and first of all to ensure that the existing legislation is respected. However, if it turns out to be necessary to amend legislation and install additional fuses, we expect the government to introduce such a change of law as soon as possible in the legislative process. The area of insolvency law is very complex and cannot therefore be changed on the basis of flat-rate findings without specific statistics and without analysis of the situation. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposals contained in this novel are not appropriate, so we will support the view that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u37	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As of December 2007, two laws had ceased to apply in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, which had been applied since 1 October 2008, namely the Law on Forced Settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation and the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises, and the new ZFPIPIPP, as we would like to say, had ceased to apply certain provisions in some other sectoral laws. We hear many times that this law is complicated, that it is understood only by individuals, and that it is only those whose aim is to take advantage of their favourable position. Every novelty of this law has sparked many debates, especially during the great balloon shoot there over the meadow. The balloons of once distinguished and successful economic operators, towing horses of economic growth and development in Slovenia have also started to break with us. After a while, they left behind empty businesses, unpaid workers, unpaid workers, dissatisfaction workers who were on the side of the poorest and most vulnerable overnight. That something like this happened is probably not the fault of the law itself, but also of irresponsible managers who did not know or wanted to see events outside the Atlantic. And what does the New Testament offer us? Complementation of the enforcement procedure by re-indicating the minimum share of payment and the maximum possible period of payment of claims; termination of the simplified enforcement procedure; transfer of the definition of disciplinary liability and sanctioning of managers to the Ministry of Justice and termination of the proceedings of the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia; change of the jurisdiction of the Board of Directors to review the accounts and the integrated documentation relating to the course procedure; supplement of the provisions governing the decision of the Management Board at the written meetings; possibility of paying the necessary costs to members of the Board of Trustees; establishment of restrictions on the performance of services to other persons; legalisation of the opinion of the Board of Appeal on the award of the manager and the change in the hiring of archiving services; addition of rules on the proof of position and solvency; change in the appointment of the manager whose appointment is suspended; amendment of the opinion of the Board of the Supervisory Board of Director on the award and the change in the hiring of archivatives; provision of the pre-adjustation of the administrative fees; establishment of the insolvency proceedings. There will certainly be groups in the individual clusters that will oppose individual solutions. And that, despite the fact that individual solutions can be good and bring some added value. However, it is also important to draw attention to the opinion of the Council of Justice, which draws attention to individual inadvertent solutions that could further make the implementation of the law more difficult and create additional inconsistencies. The Government has drawn up a comprehensive opinion on the proposed law on each proposed set separately. The comments and conclusions of the Implementation Group are also included in this package. This group monitors the implementation of the law regularly and indirectly implements data, identifies problems and prepares any changes. It also points to the complexity of this legal matter, which calls for it to be further complicated by quick, unimaginable solutions. On the basis of this large-scale opinion, we can accept the explanations and the conclusion that the proposed amendment to the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, in order to focus more on better implementation of the law, our concern about the implementation of the law has somehow been reinforced by the Member States' issues related to insolvency procedures and we have pointed out the abuse of procedures at the expense of the weaker in relation to the abuse of the law in the area of personal bankruptcy. With regard to the establishment of safeguards to avoid the abuse of the Institute of Personal bankruptcy, activities are under way within the Government to strengthen the mechanisms for preventing abuse in personal bankruptcy and to establish additional safeguards for creditors and to improve their position and to limit the risk of their lower remuneration. Social Democrats are aware of the need to ensure that conditions allow for the rapid and effective restructuring of systemically important enterprises and the speedy completion of bankruptcy procedures and, in particular, the prevention of abuse of individuals at the expense of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u39	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Employees are successful in lawsuits, but there's no money. The company in trouble, the workers with no pay. 348 workers lost their salary again. Workers received 300 euros in four months. These are addresses, just some of them that reflect the real picture of our bankruptcy legislation. There is only one thing that is perfectly clear about bankruptcy legislation. That workers who have created businesses for years and years after the bankruptcy process has ended will be completely without it. I can also support this claim with experience from my local environment, with the experience of the bishop’s LTH, which went to the land in 2009, which left some over 300 employees on the road. These employees are eligible for at least €15 000, each. To this day, after six years, none of these employees have seen a single cent, nor do any of these employees have the hope that this money, which is entirely fair to them, will ever really be received. And this is the biggest problem and the injustice of our bankruptcy legislation. But this is not the government's business, nor is it the proponent of this law that is before us. However, this issue is addressed by the Ombudsman, who points out the agony of workers in virtually every annual report. The government has not yet implemented the Ombudsman's recommendations. As we have considered the last report, we have therefore proposed in the United Left that the National Assembly, this National Assembly, should commit itself to this by adopting a recommendation. The Coalition has not supported the proposal that unpaid salaries should be defined as an absolute priority claim. That the agony of workers is not of interest, it is clear from the fact that this topic is not mentioned in the coalition agreement, nor in the social agreement, nor in the normative work programme, nor in the action plan of the priority activities of ministries and government services. We can only agree with coalitions and proponents in this way that we have a lot of problems in the area of bankruptcy legislation and that this is one of the most complex and incomprehensible laws. However, unlike the rest of the United Left, we believe that the current regime is controversial because it is primarily geared towards protecting banks and owners of failed companies. There are no solutions that we should have long ago. The government and the proponents devote the most time to the question of how to pay the bank's secured claims to the greatest extent possible, how to restructure businesses and owners to allow the company to continue to be exhausted. On the other hand, in the United Left, we are convinced that solutions need to be sought elsewhere. If we want to reduce the number of bankruptcys and reduce the number of frauds used by business owners, democratic control over their management must first be ensured. Labour management by strengthening the relevant legal rights of employees is the first safeguard that can prevent the bad practices of business owners. If we provide workers in companies that are faced with bankruptcy due to the poor work of owners and managers, the possibility of taking control of the company will certainly help to continue their business and keep jobs. However, we do not yet have legal arrangements that would allow such work to take place. At present, bankruptcy legislation is prepared so that the weak have little chance of success. The law is virtually impossible to read normally, since each next article refers to another article, and this second article again. It all looks like some kind of orientation game. And with every novel, things just get worse. Such a situation is, of course, exploited by business owners, while workers who do not receive wages after months are practically doomed to defeat. Indeed, legislation gives them certain rights, but these rights are effectively visible because in most cases workers cannot effectively enforce them anyway. In the United Left, we therefore advocate a new insolvency law that will be understandable and effective. Above all, we are committed to solutions that will adequately protect workers who will define unpaid salaries as absolute priority claims. We are committed to solutions that will enable labour acquisitions and redemptions to be adequately supported by the State in setting up cooperatives in the mountains of companies that have been helped by the workers' collectives to build. Above all, solutions that will not be written primarily for the benefit of banks and business owners. In the United Left, we will therefore not support any proposal that will not contain these essential solutions for us. Well, neither is that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u41	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jožef Horvat has the word to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel and Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course we all agree here. I agree with the debate of esteemed colleague Dr. Jasna Murgel, who said that the Financial Business Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings is extremely complex. And it is only when we see in concrete cases how things work or do not work, as we would imagine, that we see the actual complexity and certainly also – that I would also like to discuss today and to answer the question whether there is an urgent need for a general overhaul of this law or perhaps just a single set. We think and stand on the ground that perhaps we should introduce several sources of German insolvency legislation into the so-called insolvency law, which is to say that this law of the ZFPPIPP should introduce several sources of German insolvency law. One of the starting points which must undoubtedly be amended by law in our view is who can even act as manager in insolvency proceedings. Following the current regulation, these are mostly lawyers and other lawyers, which, in our view, is wrong at the very beginning. To understand each other, all the best about lawyers, all the best about lawyers, doing their corp-business, doing their job. But it's not said that they have enough knowledge about management or, if you want, crisis management. In our opinion, the post of manager should be reserved for persons with knowledge and experience from, as has already been said, management or better, crisis management, who must know not only the rules but also the market and the economy of the insolvency debtor. That way we can keep an insolvent debtor alive. Sometimes bankruptcy seems to be just a burial of a certain company, an economic entity, and it should be the other way around — bankruptcy is not necessarily a burial. In fact, bankruptcy should be a process of re-resurrection, if you want, of an economic society. We should not allow production in production organisations to stop. Once the machines cool down, if I speak a little symbolically, then it's over. I'm glad I've been watching closely, I think in 2005, Planica's bankruptcy, more precisely, a plant in Turnish. At that time, the bankruptcy manager performed his task extremely well. Why? The machines didn't stop, the machines didn't cool down. And there's a successful production going on there today. I went to visit this organization, where about 250 people worked at the time. The current practice of running bankruptcy proceedings by bankruptcy managers, of course with rare exceptions, is to understand bankruptcy only as the end of the insolvency debtor's business and, as a rule, the bankruptcy manager's work as a means of earning money for himself. And as Dr Jasna Murgel's colleague said, in concrete cases, we only really understand how this bankruptcy legislation works, so I will focus here on article 119a. We discussed this with the competent minister of mags. Goran Klemenčič, whom I asked about whether the Government or the Ministry running it is monitoring the implementation of Article 119a. This actually came into the law of ZFPPIPP in May 2013, according to the previous government. And what's this all about? This is because it is precisely this 119.a Article ZFPPIPP that gave the creditor committee the power to discharge the manager on the basis of the discretion of most members of the creditor committee and to replace it with any person who fulfils the conditions for the manager. Of course, I wouldn't know, by no means, how this article works, how it works if there was no practical case. And this practical case is bankruptcy of Ah Mure, d.o.o. The Management Board shall consist of a representative of the New Ljubljana Bank, a shareholder company, a SID bank, a shareholder company, a Bank of Koper, a shareholder company, a Gorenjska banka, a shareholder company and a Republic of Slovenia. More precisely MGRT, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. So there are no workers here. And we Christian Democrats are defending the social market model of the economy, I stressed the social model because we claim that man is the most precious capital in society. A man as an employee and, of course, a man as an employer. What exactly happened here? When the bankruptcy manager Aha Moore, d.o.o., wanted the workers to get what was theirs, and they own about EUR 5 million and a half, that's almost 10,000 net minimum wages. But the banks of the creditors said, "No, we don't give it to the workers, that's what we want for ourselves." And of course, we taxpayers are allergic to banks, because we recently recapitalized them with our tax money, and no one has even asked us about it. And of course, the board of creditors demanded the head, if I say so, excuse me, the bankruptcy manager, because he didn't do what they did, after the taste of banks, because the banks wanted all this money in a kind of greed, and they said, "What do we care about workers?" Therefore, which showed the priority claims at the level, I will say exactly, EUR 5 million 342 thousand 217. Fortunately, because of the union's involvement, perhaps even the oral question of the Member State, I don't know, fortunately, what happened was not what the creditors' committee intended to do, so to replace the bankruptcy manager who did not work after the intonation of the creditors' committee. So we have a lot of anomalies, this is just one micro case, this 119a. an article which gives the creditor committee a discretionary right to simply replace such a bankruptcy manager. As a result, this could happen so that workers would never receive the money they are charging from an economic company in bankruptcy. So this is just one of the anomalies, there must be a lot of them too, so I think it should be, but of course here the government has the resources to prepare and improve this insolvency law in the sense that the bankruptcy procedure will not just be the burial of an economic entity, but some rebirth if you want. Because, as we say, once the machines stop when the machines cool off when the production halls lock, then it's over. Who gets hurt the most? Yes, workers. And that's what this is all about. That is why we are striving to improve the actual legislation in this respect, so that, of course, workers not only of greedy banks get their share of the claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Bricelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. There's been a lot of talk, and I'd like to answer a few questions. Besides, we've said these things here many times before, and I have to say that sometimes it's hard for me to discuss things that for the first time have been said, and the second time, they write in the law, but obviously we don't know that they write. So it was said that there are many anomalies, that the law is inadequate, that there is a need for a completely different system. If I start with this first part of the anomaly that the honourable Member spoke of before me. Article 119a has been applied four times so far, and the Ministry is closely monitoring the application of this Article. As regards who may be the manager, Article 108 of the Law stipulates that you do not need to be a lawyer or an economist, but you need to have a higher education. So the law is not an obstacle, and the law does not prescribe that managers are lawyers, that is, lawyers. The law doesn't provide for that. So we can make things very clear right away. As for the complexity, incomprehensibility, and similar expressions used as adjectives to describe this law, I would like to say or rather say that the law is extensive. That's right. It is also true that judges, when they speak of judges who really know this area, do not have problems applying this law, but they need to be deepened into matter. This is a law which is a mixture of legal and economic matter, a law which is not possible, and is not the most appropriate, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, because it also covers so many economic, financial areas. However, as for those who have deepened, studied him, I believe that there should be no greater problems if we also take into account what the criteria are for someone to become a judge. It was said that the previous debaters somehow said that somehow the law was being prepared by external experts, then chocolate came to the Ministry of Justice and we as some whistles just wrapped it in purple paper. I'd like to say the following right here. The Council of Justice is in its opinion, but it is not decisive now, but I will start with this, the Council of Justice has specifically stated in its opinion on the amendment you have today on the table with the proposal of the opposition novel that it is necessary for legal experts to participate in the process of legislative change in the field subject to amendment. We in the Ministry are still aware of this, and this law, which, as I said, is a mixture of financial, economic, legal matter, has been produced, so the novelties of this law have been produced since novel C forward with the participation of many professional public. In this way, let me say that novel F is not the result of the work of one external expert, but of thirteen institutions, and individuals have also been involved. So if among the institutions I count Banka Slovenije, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, different ministries, not to list all of them, you have listed them in the government budget, they participated, as I said, even individuals. We ourselves at the Ministry of Justice have experts specifically in this area. My friend's sitting next to me. But it is true that when I return to chocolate, we cooperate with experts in the formulation of a recipe for this chocolate, and, as I said, the Council of Justice also considers it an appropriate approach. That final taste of chocolate and scent, if you want, we'll set it up at the Ministry. So there won't be any misunderstanding here. Well said Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. Above all, and here I particularly agree with this, first of all, respect for the legislation already in force must be ensured. And if I wanted to show you earlier that we don't even know what the law says, then first, we need to know what it says, and then we need to know how to respect it. Therefore, respect for what is already stipulated in the law must first be ensured. Let me say that this law has also been extremely positive on the part of the European Commission. So that I don't just talk like this in general, it's better to use numbers when it comes to good results or success. We know that the number of preventive restructuring agreements from 2013 to 2014 has increased by 240 %, in figures: in 2013 25, in 2014 85. So such an important increase brought only the last novels. In doing so, I would like to stress that the instruments, the institutes, the last novel of the F, if I am now in the process of doing so, are working. If I say the final thought. As has been said, first of all it is necessary to ensure respect for the law in force, we are in the Ministry's position, if everything that is written in the law is used, and if all those concerned by this matter are, therefore, the court, the administrator, the boards of creditors, if you want to, actively act and use the instruments available to them, should not be abused. When I speak of active cooperation, I do not have in mind a judge who merely administratively confirms that we do not need such a judge, the judge is a decision-maker who is determined to create case-law and such a judge is provided for by this law. So if all those affected by matter know the matter well and actively carry it out, abuse should not occur. Our view is also that, because of individual cases of excellence where all the guards have given up much earlier and not only when individuals have come into the zone of regulation of ZFPPIPP, there is no way to change the system. I'm sure you know what extraordinary cases I'm talking about. That is why, although, as I said, we do not consider this strictly an area of ZFPPIPP, we will also try to avoid further possible abuses with the novel that I have already mentioned today in the area of personal bankruptcy. Although once again, there are many safeguards already in the law, and we will further tighten the screws that are already installed, so there is a novel that will introduce some additional solutions that are needed not because the existing arrangement is bad, but because our social space is capable of amazing corruption. And even so, as I have already mentioned, the government will respond accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr Jasna Murgel has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. If it flew to me that I mentioned that marriage is bad, it's not bad, now it's with all the changes, how can I say it's frizzy enough that we can say that it's pretty good. The one where I have the most comments is personal bankruptcy. We would not now go into detail because we will discuss this when the government makes its proposal. But it's just that everything's just fine and everything's fine. I'm sorry, but it's not. I agree, however, that if a judge knows matter when he has enough practice, he can find solutions to all the questions in the proceedings. But when you're in the process, when you see what the parties make up in the process, and what tools they use when you don't even know how to use it, then you come up with a problem. But many times it's a case of excellence, that's true, most of the procedures are going pretty well. The analysis given in the material to the opinion of this law also showed that procedures are ongoing and that they are running as urgently as necessary and that a number of things are already being resolved. It was also resolved against the novels of the ZFPPIPP. You said yourself that at the beginning of the preparation of this law ZFPPIPP without any letter, there I thought that maybe there was not as much cooperation as with other novels. But now we have the ZFPIPPP as it is. Again, I repeat that such swift changes, which are not sufficiently thought-out, cannot be supported, as these proposals also make it clear that the applicant does not know the law and forgets that the solutions already exist. It's not that bad again. I didn't mean to spit on him on average right now, but to say that some of the repairs are still possible. And we'll do it together after the Ministry makes its proposal. Now, as far as these proposals are concerned, only some of the things proposed by the proposer. Setting the legal minimum threshold for payment of creditors in a forced settlement – we already had it and now we have it back again I also talked to the judges, if you want to, directly, before a day or two, but they said, the opinion of some was that it might make sense to introduce, say, a 30% limit. [[…]] But I believe that, despite everything, a forced settlement is achieved only if the creditors agree on any, simplified or regular settlement. And creditors have sufficient resources to resist this in order to confirm a forced settlement. The trustees confirm the compulsory settlement and not the debtor. If creditors agree to a deferred payment and payment in some reduced amount, this is their business, they decide for themselves. The main thing is whether we'll be paid, or whether we'll be better off if a forced settlement is confirmed, or whether we'll be better off if the debtor goes bankrupt. As I said, after a forced settlement, the debtor still lives and survives. If the restructuring is successful, then he's still alive. If it repays its obligations under the conditions of a legally approved enforcement settlement, it may survive and continue to operate and repay at least part of the obligation. Otherwise, creditors who do not have secured their claims — that I do not wear you out with these details — often lose everything in bankruptcy and are not subject to this in any way. Discontinuation of the simplified enforcement settlement procedure. She barely got involved in the proceedings if I properly understand from what the Ministry gave and as I did with my colleagues in court. In short, there is a possibility that, in agreement with creditors, a process of forced settlement will be carried out primarily for espouses, independent entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises. Since there is really no need, this should look like a proposal to initiate a process of forced settlement, when you have a financial restructuring plan, an auditor's report, I don't know, I've already forgotten a little bit about what's going on, but I know that such a proposal is going to get you for such a legal person, for a regular enforcement procedure, and of course it's also a burden for the court. I think that there is some legitimate reason why this simplified enforcement settlement should be eliminated – I don't know if we think the creditors are damaged, and we don't have any compelling reason for this in the proposaler's explanation. In short, now some rapid change in this process, now we have it, then we will not have it, I think it would have contributed to the confusion in the process rather than to some improvement in the process. Transfer of disciplinary responsibility and sanctioning of managers at the Ministry of Justice. Even now, the Chamber of Managers has no exclusive competence to assess disciplinary responsibility. This is regulated by the ZFPPIPP. The Board of Governors shall have no special or major impact on the content of the decision on disciplinary infringements by managers. However, the Ministry of Justice has sufficient procedural capacity to influence disciplinary infringements to be dealt with before disciplinary authorities, in which most members of such bodies are not associated with the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia. The question of disciplinary responsibility of managers is once again such a complex matter, and it does not seem to us that we have to change something to speed – now the whole system is replaced, but once again to express mistrust, when they do nothing, and they will not turn their eyes off, crows will not turn their eyes off, or how it is done. We have a system and in our opinion there is no need for it to change. Right now, they don't control the managers, they don't control the managers through the Board of Governors themselves. And that's what already exists. Some great need for this to change. The Council of Justice itself has expressed such an opinion that we cannot change the provisions of the Company Finance Act in a fast way, an even longer term, formerly one of the Financial Transactions Act, the CFPIPP, because this can have consequences. However, the Council of Justice agrees with some of the solutions proposed. And I agree with some solutions myself, but most of what is here in these proposed changes would only cause unnecessary procedural complications. And they're not well thought out. Let's say that what I have already said is a problem, even the Council of Justice itself points out the problem of this advance to cover the initial costs of bankruptcy proceedings. Here, since the amendment of the ZFPPIPP, I do not know exactly which point it is, two years ago, the letter was then at the end of the novel, as I said, these costs are covered by the Court's budgets automatically. It is first determined whether someone fulfils the conditions for granting free legal aid to cover these costs. This was noted by a special section dealing with free legal aid at the district court. Then the legislator changed this because it was the intention of everyone to have access to this personal bankruptcy procedure, to get rid of excess obligations that he could not settle himself, and let's just say that he somehow did not contribute to all of this. In short, these costs are costs that really burden the courts. The Council of Justice also notes that a solution must be sought here, in order to ensure an adequate level of legal protection for those who cannot pay this advance. There's one such pat position. If you're going to a personal bankruptcy, I'm guessing you don't have 2,000 euros. If you're in a financial situation like this, I'm guessing you don't have 2,000 euros to pawn an advance. If you don't, if you're insolvent. I met people in court when they were making applications and they said, "Are you crazy, how am I supposed to pay 2,000 euros now?" A little more is this advance to cover the initial costs of bankruptcy. And then they had to apply for free legal aid, but there the conditions for free legal aid are assessed by what you actually have. And if you have any real estate, there's no way you're getting free legal aid. Now it is automaticism, which is specifically regulated by the ZFPPIPP. But this automation is really a burden for the courts. I really wonder if this is the right arrangement that we all pay together now that someone who now mentions so much taxpayer money I am in favour of finding one system, but that now we all pay the manager together, because this money gets the manager, that someone who doesn't have it anyway is insolvent, at least so claims to be free of the obligation. [[…]] We will all pay that those who have nothing continue to find that they have nothing and cannot pay, o.k., they are allowed a trial period, and eventually they forgive obligations. Here we might consider a more appropriate way. The proposaler here does not mention this, but it depends on whether there will be political will and what the opinion of the profession will be here. This is one of the things that the proposer does not mention and should be regulated. Of course, the Council of Justice agrees with some of your proposals, but most of the proposals in this law are those which I consider unnecessary and constitute additional complications of the procedure and complication to be insufficient and therefore cannot be supported as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak applied. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Yeah, they're not thoughtful. How long will you think about it? Do you need another six months, or do you need another year, or maybe two days? It is good that I get involved in the debate in the role of the proposer, one thing has to be said, i.e. bankruptcy law, the official address is quite different, here most people don't even understand it, insolvency and so on. Let's say it's a bankruptcy law because people understand that. This law is one of the most demanding laws Slovenia has. Judges dealing with bankruptcy will tell you very clearly that it is written in such a way that they themselves find it very difficult to understand that it is written in such a way that they themselves can fall into any trap at any time. But the joke is that there is no person in this country who would know how to write this law, except for one, is Mrs Nina Platez, who writes laws in this area. Then he interprets, educates judges, and educates bankruptcy managers, and then he writes a new law. And the procedure repeats itself. At the expense of her company, thousands and thousands of euros fly. Why did we decide to make these changes? Let me mention only one thing in this performance: this is the transfer of disciplinary responsibility to the Ministry of Justice. Look, I've asked some questions from the Members: how many disciplinary procedures are there? How many do we have in this country? You won't believe it. We don't have any. It is also logical that we have nothing, but if the bankruptcy administrators within the Chamber decide on their own responsibility. Yeah, well, what would that look like if you disciplined yourself? This is a systemic error, this is a pure systemic error that we have in marriage, I think since 2009, 2010 onwards, when Minister Zalar brought this into this law. The transfer of disciplinary responsibility to the justice ministry would be the only logical and smart solution for someone else to decide not to decide their own fate. This is a logical solution for me. Some of the other solutions supported by the Council of Justice are quite logical. There are four solutions to this marriage. But you say they're reckless. Yeah, but when are you gonna figure it out? I suppose it's probably never around the world, Secretary of State, because the situation is simply such that you're preparing systemic changes. It's a flyer, it's a government flyer, yeah, it's a government flyer, it's gonna be us when we think it is. But it's nothing. When, then, will this be by the Justice Department? When are you gonna do something? But there are needs in the field that she recognized. I'm very surprised. Even the Council of Justice recognized that. And even the Council of Justice said that the solutions we are proposing are necessary and good. It's rare for them to say that. And if they say that, it must be pretty bad now if they support it. Of course, then the coalition and the government do not support it. Why? Because the proposalr is wrong. If you find the proposaler wrong and you feel embarrassed, I will give you an electronic version of this text, correct the proposaler and write the SMC or write a coalition or something like that, and sign it below, and then vote it out. But you're obviously not ready to do that either, and the terrain needs changes in this area. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we have a real marriage ahead of us, and I'm just going to start by saying, even though the secretary of state said he was good, he wasn't good. We both know that. It is not good because, in fact, although it was accepted during the period when I actively participated in this reception and could actually spit myself in the bowl, it is true that the following must be acknowledged and said out loud. Each day, 40 different amendments, initiatives to change this law, came into individual provisions and articles. And what the Secretary of State said about who was involved was those who were sending proposals. But in fact we all know that it is only one person who has been active in the entire story and is also the so-called author, eternal, I will say, serves in the formation of the law and then serves later in the interpretation of this law and serves even when it is necessary to complain about this law within the procedure. Let's stop painting, that's one thing. Second thing. The bill proposed by the parliamentary group is not bad enough to be proposed because they have opened up certain topics and questions to be answered. And at the very least, I regret that, in fact, the amendments proposed at the time of the last amendment to this Act have not been mentioned in their proposal. I regret today that I have agreed to the logic that a lawyer can also be a bankruptcy manager. Although an amendment has been adopted, which now makes it impossible for a lawyer to use the name of a lawyer when he is a bankruptcy administrator and so on, but he can still do so. Why do I oppose this proposal today and also call on the Government if the law is not adopted to make this change here.? The fact is, although the lawyer has a constitutional status, where the Constitution mentions him, such as judges and others. However, of all the bankruptcy managers of 140, there are only 40 lawyers of bankruptcy managers. Only 40. What does that mean? In order not to hold the theory of the Bar, which speaks and explains that for a bankruptcy manager it would be necessary to have the ultimate knowledge of a lawyer, because then all 140 bankruptcy administrators would be lawyers. And of all the thousands of 500 lawyers there are only 40 bankruptcy managers. Something's not working out. So it's a commercial service. However, since we have a problem, and this is that whenever there is a lawyer, of course, when we know by law how to write his files, he has a problem with bankruptcy. Once the surveillance comes in, and we all know what this is about, there's once a bankruptcy manager, a second time a lawyer. You can never look at it the way it's supposed to. And that control is not really there. Here I remind my colleague Gorenak, I hope that this control issue will be advocated even when we talk about the Medical Chamber, even when we talk about another chamber, that we will defend this external control or punishment and sanctions for it. I'm in, but only on one condition, if that's true for everyone. Not for one profession, yes, for another profession, then we have a little bit different. In this case, I urge, seriously, the government to seriously consider changing to ban lawyers from being bankruptcy administrators at the same time. No problem, the lawyer is easy, but if he wants to be a bankruptcy manager, then let him decide and deal with bankruptcy management and not lawyers. For we know too many times and quite a few cases in the past, when this institute was misused when it actually signed, in fact, the bankruptcy manager hired himself and introduced procedures and in fact had only an additional source of earnings. The bar's gonna freak out. Then what do you want him to do? In the final stage it is known that one thing in life must also be prohibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. She has a word, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, then Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! I would now like to discuss matters that are dealt with by the law, which we have not mentioned in the position of the Group of Members. The enforcement arrangement, as supplemented by Amendment F of this Act, makes it possible to apply a wide range of restructuring measures and all combinations of these measures. It also gives creditors the opportunity to actively influence the process itself and also the outcome of these procedures. None of the procedures that have been completed or are still under way have resulted in a situation that could not be adequately resolved by the application of the current regulation of this law. I therefore believe that, as the Government has already assessed in its position, there is no need to amend this law in such a proposal as the SDS has proposed. The amendment to the Preemption Regulation and the free legal aid implemented by novel F had positive effects as the duration of previous insolvency proceedings significantly reduced. The data ranged from an average of 45 days in 2013 to an average of 18 in 2014. Despite the increased number of insolvency proceedings, in particular the insolvency proceedings, the duration of the proceedings has not been extended. This means that the courts have effectively adapted, read, rationalised their business to an increased number of cases. In part, it has also been helped by the regulation introduced by the amendment of Law F, which allows court assistants to decide in simpler cases. Therefore, the complementary regulation of the restructuring proceedings, as established by Amendment F, undoubtedly contributed to the improvement of the possibility of restructuring economic operators, since the number of new judicial restructuring procedures and the number of successfully completed judicial restructuring procedures increased significantly in 2014 compared to 2013. This has been significantly contributed by simplified enforcement procedures over small and micro-enterprises or companies which, in fact, did not have the opportunity to carry out this restructuring in court due to disproportionate costs incurred in connection with the regular enforcement procedure. According to the data available to us, we can see that the Slovenian economy's deleveraging activities are also successfully carried out in 2015. And a few more words about the supervision of the Board of Directors of these procedures. Under the current law, the Ministry of Justice is competent to supervise the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia, so that it does not hold the applicant's initial assumption that the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia is one of the closed associations that protects the interests of its members and does not sanction them. As an example, I would also point out that the Ministry of Justice has overseen the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia at the latest 22. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As well as changes in the jurisdiction of the creditor committee to review the business books and all documentation relating to bankruptcy proceedings. Under the second paragraph of Article 87 of the Law, the Management Board is already entitled to review the business books and the complete documentation taken over by the manager in bankruptcy proceedings and to review the documentation to be kept by the manager in connection with this procedure. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 87 of the Law, those rights are granted to the Management Board for the exercise of its rights and the exercise of its powers. To conclude, I support the Government's opinion that the proposed amendment to the law in this area is not necessary at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Justice! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we decided to supplement or amend the law on insolvency proceedings, financial transactions, for which I would prefer to use the word bankruptcy law – this is probably better understood in the general public as well – probably for several reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the law is bad and that this law is, I would say, very important for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I am surprised by the statement made by the Secretary of State, who expressed her view that we have good bankruptcy legislation in Slovenia. How would you comment that a bankruptcy procedure lasting more than 22 years has been completed in the previous month? For more than 22 years, the bankruptcy procedure of the Joint Timber Industry of Tržič lasted. I would count you just a few more bankruptcys, say, Elan lasted 7,000,362 days, and the famous International Koper lasted 7,000,328. Here we have a bunch of bankruptcy procedures that lasted more than 6,000 800 days. Above all, practices from abroad can say that bankruptcy procedures are largely time-consuming in favour of creditors. Even if bankruptcy procedures are quickly completed, I would say that this can also maintain a significant number of jobs and begin with the new production or service procedures carried out by this company. Well, it's my personal opinion that the current law is fundamentally extensive, that we have over 400 members in here. The problem with this law, which I personally see, is that a number of these 400s travel to other laws. I think that this law, every law, in Slovenia, should not have been given guidance, but this refers to this and this other law – let the matter be comprehensively resolved, systemically in one law alone. I would also say how you comment on the number of bankruptcy proceedings that individual judges or judges deal with. Can these things then be resolved in a qualitative, efficient and, of course, quickly? For example, from the data available on the Ipes website, for example, the number of proceedings conducted by Judge Petra Giacomelli is 757, Andreja Zupan 586, and Alja Cerovšek 571. The proceedings are run by one bankruptcy judge, I think they can be lost in this case and that some changes should be made here. There is also a reason why we have decided to make these changes and additions, but it is also that, at least in the last period, we can see that some of these procedures are likely to be at risk or some indication that procedures are being misused. Look, I am sure that legislation regarding forced settlement and bankruptcy procedures is one of the great rakranas felt in the economy and especially by creditors. If anyone wants these bankruptcy proceedings to be completed as quickly as possible, they are solely creditors and employees of such a company. As I mentioned earlier, we have record-breaking procedures. Dear Secretary of State, you probably also have data from other countries, and I am interested in, say, the average duration of bankruptcy proceedings in other countries. In some other countries, do we have any case that the bankruptcy process lasted 22 years, as in Slovenia? And that we have a series of bankruptcys that have lasted more than 6,000 800 days? We know certain practices when the financial and economic crisis began in the world, at least in the case of America, how these matters were resolved. In one month the bankruptcy proceedings were completed and the company became operational again. I think we should think seriously, regardless of what you said, that the Government estimates that at a given point, additions and changes are not necessarily necessary. I also appeal to all coalition members and Members that, at this stage of the procedure for the consideration of the draft law that we have tabled in the National Assembly, we support this issue and then together try to draw up such legislation that will be effective, which will be faster and, above all, defend creditors. I think bankruptcy procedures must be such as to defend creditors, because in bankruptcy proceedings, creditors are damaged. As regards the procedures for forced settlement and this; see, I think that the enforcement settlement is a legal place of creditors, but some of you continue to stress that this is important, because otherwise more businesses would go bankrupt. We have also been able to read comments that the amendments and proposals proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party could, in a very short period of time, cause a skirmish of bankruptcys, but I think it is better that at some point we have a skirmish of bankruptcys than that we have a certain enterprise dying on rations, and in particular that during this time period when a company is so-called artificially attached to certain appliances, creditors and workers who lose their salaries are lost in particular. As well as a fund for the payment of these creditors, in particular due to unpaid salaries, it sometimes happens that for such or other reasons this matter is not paid within three months as it should be. The president said how these matters are being reduced, how the overindebtedness of Slovenian companies is being reduced, and on the other hand we are listening to Banka Slovenije reports, which explains something exactly the opposite. Many times it has been said that banks are quality, banks have enough money, but the problem is that credit is not granted to businesses or their owners who are in a disgruntled state. Now you decide what the situation is, whether it's positive or negative; but you're probably using a rhetoric that suits you at the moment. I think that in the area of bankruptcy procedures this should be one of the priorities. We could say that this task is also part of some reform procedures, reforms with which the Mira Cerar government has been so pleased in the last period, and in fact in the National Assembly, despite the fact that your mandate has lasted almost a year and a half, we have not received any real reform that the state of Slovenia would need, and in particular the Slovenian economy. I think that serious reflection, serious reflection also is needed in all these procedures and amendments that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to examine these matters in order to open this process of changes and amendments to this law. Above all, I believe that this legislation should be narrowed down; legislation should be based on one law, not on a reference to six more, seven laws that are subordinate to this law. Above all, I think that the law should be written in such a way that it does not allow for different interpretations. For these long - term procedures are now solely or largely dependent, for one or the other party can interpret these laws substantially differently. Personally, as I look at this law, I think that in certain matters we should go further into restrictive measures and in restrictive penalties. For me personally, see if the bankruptcy weight does not exceed 50 per cent of all claims which, I think, should consider that criminal proceedings should also be initiated here against the management of companies or individuals responsible for the management of these companies. Because I'm sure any management of the company can assess where it's going at any given time. We know, however, that bankruptcy is probably the most likely to affect or damage creditors. Legislation must be put in place which will, in particular, allow for faster winding-up of bankruptcys and, in particular, legislation that will be in the interest of giving certain protection to creditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which you will receive the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government, Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary, Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I've already said some things that were once again exposed when you weren't in the hall, and I'll be back in a hurry. First, Mr. Gorenak, who asked about the number of disciplinary procedures. Let me say that in the government's opinion on page 10 of this issue, I will quickly summarize them. In 2013, the Chamber introduced 11 disciplinary procedures, issued 9 disciplinary decisions in 2014, and in 2015, the Minister submitted 7 proposals for disciplinary proceedings. As far as the supervision of the Chamber is concerned, let me add that we are on 22 October this year, namely that the Ministry has carried out the supervision of the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia. It was said, well, the problems are, when you act, the government thinks too long. That's what I said before, and I'll say it again. The proposal for a novel prepared by the Government has already been published, i.e. it is in coordination, and let me once again say that with the two objectives that you are pursuing in your proposal, this is the aim of tightening the screws, as I said before, in the area of personal bankruptcy and changing in the case of a simplified enforcement settlement, so that it is no longer useful for small companies. So, we agree with these two objectives. We do not agree on how you propose to achieve these two objectives. We have foreseen a slightly different solution – now I am referring to personal bankruptcy – with all the other proposals you are following, and in our opinion they are not what our bankruptcy practice is, if I may say so, and the profession needs now. Well, not with most of the goals, but with these two that you're proposing, we agree. The government has already come to an end here, and the proposal has already been published. We therefore expect a response from both the professional and the inter-ministerial public. Furthermore, what Mr Pogačnik has pointed out is that, as far as the duration of bankruptcy proceedings in other countries is concerned, I would like to say that it was on the European Judicial Network this year that Italy addressed the question of the duration of bankruptcy in other countries, and the answer was not, or it was said, that other countries are monitoring the number of bankruptcys, the number of agreements concluded, the number of forced settlement agreements and so on, and not the duration. So specifically, for example, Germany does not monitor the duration of bankruptcy, nor does Great Britain. It is interesting, however, if we are talking about comparative arrangements that, for example, only 2 per cent of the agreements submitted in Germany are weak, so only 2 per cent of the agreements submitted in Germany are submitted in Germany, and there is no indication of how successful they are in the end. When I spoke earlier, you were, as it were, not yet, that our marriage was working. I can now substantiate this with a number to make a difference, so it is significantly better for us if we have 2% of the agreements submitted in Germany, we have 7% of the restructuring agreements concluded. So we are significantly better at restructuring the economy on the basis of our legislation. Finally, when I'm on the numbers, let me just say that after the analysis of Doing business, which is according to the latest data, Slovenia, as far as solving bankruptcy, is ranked 12th place, so here we have made significant progress from before 41st we are now at 12. That's it, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you. You have now said how many procedures have been put in place – what is the result? The result would be more interesting than how many procedures are in place. In fact, if the procedure is initiated, it does not mean that it will result in any result. Good. I have something to say that I rarely agree with Möderndorfer, but this time I do. Lawyers are actually a problem from this point of view, and a lawyer should be a lawyer, and a bankruptcy manager should be a bankruptcy manager. The Secretary of State also mentioned a novel prepared by the Government, which was written by Nina Plaże. Well, then, for the first time in history, she didn't cooperate if you did it yourself, but I think she's usually the author of all these things. Look, I would still warn you in this closing act on a few things that are still problematic from my point of view, at least that's what I think, from my point of view. In fact, there was a provision in 2008, 2007, 2008 on this law on how to get to some normal order of bankruptcy managers that take over individual bankruptcy. At that time it was stipulated that it was alphabetical order. All I have to say is that the courts don't stick to it; the courts don't stick to it. If you're going to fix the marriage, it would be good for you to say something else in this area. A typical case stems from Slovenj Gradz, where those who should be on their turn just skipped, were determined by each other, who are just friends of the judges who made the decision. That'd be a good thing in that cut. For the sake of the public, I must also point out another problem in the area of bankruptcy legislation, which may not be directly linked to this law and this provision and the articles that we have just opened with this bill. In fact, there was a real little scandal years ago, if you ask me when the court in Krske bankruptcy manager Videm Krška decided 440,000 euros in cash. Before that, the judge simply forgot that he had already paid him 150 thousand advances. And the husband well cleaned up these 150,000 euros, the court in Ljubljana later found that it was a mistake, but he cashed 150 000 euros and put it in his pocket. Of course, he never once thought of returning that money. Irregularities also occur elsewhere. This is the case with Elan and the bankruptcy manager Marinz, a very well-known last name, who for the purposes of bankruptcy hires his own company and then that own company of its own, of course, serves well. In short, I want to conclude and deal with some others, say Mrs Porotat, who has not yet been able to say that the opposition would have drawn up a good law. I don't know if you think – because this is the same for you in the government and coalition – that everything we propose in the opposition or what we propose in the SDS is something that the party needs to throw away. You do this for some reason, not for reasons of content, and then you draw explanations from five veins, why a bill does not show support. I look forward to what you have announced that your proposals are somehow going in the same direction if this law comes to the National Assembly at all and if we get it, we will support it if it goes in the right direction, but of course not. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing there's no desire to discuss it. I therefore conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday 18 in accordance with the meeting's time frame. 12. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on the Slovenian framework of qualification within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 15th regular session on 1 December 2015, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Qualifications Framework submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service and its representative has explained that their comments on the shortcomings of the definitions of incompletely invoked entities and the uniform application of abbreviations are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The opinion was also presented by a representative of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which in its opinion supported the bill. Among other things, it supported the proposaler's intention to establish an effective system of labour market integration and education, to enable the integration and harmonisation of Slovenian qualifications subsystems and to improve their transparency, accessibility and quality in relation to the labour market. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by coalition parliamentary groups such as SMC, Desus and SD, which were also adopted after the discussion. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport said that the purpose of the law is to establish the Slovenian Qualifications Framework in the Republic of Slovenia and to achieve transparency and recognition of qualifications in Slovenia and the European Union, to support lifelong learning, to connect and harmonise Slovenian qualification subsystems and to improve transparency, accessibility and quality of qualifications in relation to the labour market and civil society. It is explained that the Slovenian Qualifications Framework contains all the qualifications and relevant documents obtained in the system and outside the education system and have successfully undergone certain quality control and evaluation procedures or procedures for obtaining a qualification. The Slovenian Qualifications Framework Act also includes qualifications that have been acquired in the education system in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia before 25 June 1991, since the equivalence of the relationship between new and old qualifications that will be present in the labour market for many years is important both in terms of the rights of individual holders of qualifications and in terms of better understanding and transparency of qualifications in the labour market by employers. The debate focused on the course of production, the objectives and the content of the law itself. Most debaters welcomed its adoption, as the law will allow for transparency and recognition of qualifications in Slovenia and the European Union, support lifelong learning, establish an effective system of labour market integration and education, connect and harmonise Slovenian qualifications subsystems and improve transparency, accessibility and quality of qualifications in relation to the labour market and civil society. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega. Procedurally, I apologize, procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Yesterday or Tuesday, on the day [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u63	Wait a minute, you checked in too fast, one second. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u64	On Tuesday, this is said to be December 15th, on the date of the opening of the early vote at the referendum, the National Bureau of Inquiry conducted a house inquiry in the National Assembly and at the seat of the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party. While the investigators at the seat of the Slovenian Democratic Party seized only the communication which was linked and made between the suspects – that is to say, it was only 26 e-mails – all the documentation was taken from the National Assembly, with the agreement of the President of the National Assembly. This is Mr Shirtzl's documentation with other suspects and other personal correspondence. In short, the leadership of the Slovenian police actually lied when it said that they only took the documentation related to the direct investigation, but they also covered everything else. Mr Shirtzl's lawyer objected to this act, while the President of the National Assembly allowed it. The Criminal Procedure Act does not allow seizure of objects and communications not subject to investigation, and such abuse of repressive methods is expressly prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The administration of the National Investigation Office in the National Assembly, which has been repeated for the fourth time, constitutes a grave intervention in the constitutional division of power and contains elements of the establishment of a police state. Since this intervention took place this time during the closing campaign before the referendum, it is an act that particularly threatens parliamentary democracy and the rule of law. The delegation announces that it will not participate in this agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. It is said that now the Group of Members of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Minister, Ministry team! The law before us is the last step in placing the Slovenian Qualifications Framework in the European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning and the European Higher Education Qualifications Framework. The proposal for a law is the result of multi-annual cooperation and coordination among a number of stakeholders, as the establishment of a national framework and its placement in the European Qualifications Framework has been taking place since 2005. We are glad that this final step has taken place. Allow me to give a few words to the Slovenian framework of qualifications or the mother of the law that we have before us today. The Slovenian Qualifications Framework is a uniformly agreed system for grading qualifications at levels according to learning outcomes. The description for each level covers three categories of learning outcomes, namely knowledge, skills and competence. Also within each level, in addition to the formal completion of an educational programme, which is demonstrated by a certificate or a diploma, professional and additional qualifications shall be taken into account, as shown by the certificate or certificate. These are particularly important as they complement the competence of an individual in a particular field of expertise. This will benefit employers, as it will enable them to better assess their choice of candidates as well as employees, as they will be better able to choose individual qualifications that can boost their competitiveness in the labour market. Despite the fact that the Slovenian Qualifications Framework has ten levels and the European Eight, the fences are compatible and comparable. In addition to the Slovenian level, the certificate or diploma will also record the level of European qualifications and the level of the European Higher Education Qualifications Framework. It is important that the Slovenian Qualifications Framework takes into account the specifics of the Slovenian educational system, as the description and level of the European framework are too wide and do not meet the specifications of our educational system. It was particularly difficult to achieve coherence, transparency and the link between the education of vocational and additional qualifications between current, ongoing and past educational programmes. Some programmes, such as higher vocational education or scientific master’s degree, are in the process of being implemented or no longer being implemented, and individuals with this type of education will be present in the labour market for decades. The law also includes qualifications acquired before 1991, which is important in terms of the rights of individual holders of qualifications and the transparency of those in the labour market. Ensuring the quality of the Slovenian Qualifications Framework is also an important factor followed consistently by lawmakers. The quality of the education and qualification system depends on the established and quality accreditation procedures and systems already in place in our country. The quality of the fence is also ensured by the establishment of all the institutions responsible for quality assurance. These are NAKVIS, which is responsible for ensuring quality assurance in higher education or tertiary education, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, which provides quality in general education, the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education, which ensures quality in vocational and vocational education and national professional qualifications, and the Andragog Centre of Slovenia, whose role in quality assurance is particularly important in the field of adult education. For all of this, we will support the proposal for the Slovenian Qualifications Framework Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Notwithstanding the fact that this is a technical law that lays the implementing grounds for processing the placement of a national qualification system in the European Qualifications Framework, we can say that it will have a positive impact on the Slovenian labour market. By introducing a national qualification framework, citizens will have transparent information on their qualifications and their comparability with qualifications in the European area, which will affect greater labour market mobility both at home and in EU Member States. In a way, this law applies to what we Members and Members of Desus have pointed out and said many times. We believe that it is essential that education systems, the economic sector and the labour market are closely linked. In the Desus Group, we believe that dialogue between the economy, the labour market and the education system in order to identify the development trends and needs of staff and to plan such content of educational programmes and the quality of learning outcomes and competences is essential to ensure that students are employed immediately after the end of vocational or secondary education or are able to continue their education and, even after the completion of higher education, to obtain adequate employment. The proposal of the law thus makes a significant link between education, the economic sector and the labour market, as employers, in addition to the employment agency, will be able to promote the placement of additional professional qualifications, which are an important proof of the ability of the candidate to work in a particular professional field, which requires specific skills, while the latter can certainly increase employment opportunities and improve its competitive value in the labour market. At the same time, the principle of lifelong learning, which is becoming increasingly important in the education system, and increasingly manifests itself in the process of linking the education system with the needs of the labour market today as a key factor in reducing unemployment. In the Desus Group we support the law because we agree that this law establishes an effective system of integration of the labour market and education, enables the integration and harmonisation of Slovenian sub-systems of qualifications and improves their transparency, accessibility and quality in relation to the labour market. As we say, Members and Members of Desus will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will support the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Qualifications Framework. Although the proposal for a law on the Slovenian framework of qualifications appears to be a technical law, it should be stressed that it regulates extremely important content. The bill provides for transparency in the classification of the different qualifications acquired by an individual during and outside the education period. A very clear description of skills and skills will help employers in their employment processes, and an individual will also be able to demonstrate them more appropriately in the open labour market in the European Union. So, in the Slovenian legal framework, we are removing the gap that has made it difficult for different entities to function daily. Finally, this means that the law will also allow our companies, or if you want the economy to be more competitive in foreign markets, because so far there have been many times that, precisely because of the lack of coordination in the recognition and proof of qualifications of those who run the relevant business, it was not identical with the expected evidence in the individual country where the company competed for business. We can certainly only add to this that we are looking forward to this, because our companies in foreign markets, as well as the success of our companies in foreign markets, are ultimately providing us with 70 per cent of our gross domestic product. The bill is therefore a major step towards linking the labour market and education and the economy, so it is very important and we are happy to support the economy and, last but not least, we are also aware of the warnings given in the debate on the Commission of the State Council, but despite all these good solutions, it is necessary to have an appropriate relationship before our eyes also between taking into account formal education and knowledge and competences appropriate to the labour market or competences required by employers in order to avoid underestimating actual education, in particular at the professional or professional level. The law will therefore ensure the comparability and visibility of qualifications in both Slovenian and European spaces. Given that our law will contain ten levels and the European includes eight levels, we can not only say very clearly here that this difference is due mainly to the fact that we had a very well organised educational process in Slovenia and we have a very well organised education process in Slovenia. Such a well-organised process could only be integrated into the European level in a way that represents ten levels, but which are very clearly defined and marked at European levels, so that there will be no derogations which I have already mentioned in the introduction, so that it is difficult to identify the skills of the staff involved in the process of obtaining employment or participating in individual companies due to the lack of clarity of a certain level of education. This is also evidence of the successful path that the Slovenian educational system has had in its history, and it is right that we continue this path in the future. While we must be aware that this difference in levels in Slovenia and European level is also a topic detected by the Slovenian Student Organisation, which pointed out the problem that this should also be a silent recognition that the Bologna reform in Slovenia has not been implemented properly or fully. This comment must also be taken seriously and taken into account in the implementation of the Bologna system and may later be reflected in legislative solutions to the Higher Education Act. However, when we talk about the Slovenian Qualifications Framework Act, of course this cannot be resolved, so we will support this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Mr Miha Kordish is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The proposal for the Slovenian Qualifications Framework Law offers some answers to the real needs of systematising and classifying acquired knowledge and skills, especially in the light of the placement of the Slovenian educational system in the context of the European Union, and we will therefore support this law in the United Left. The process of law-making has been lengthy and is based on the idea of the European Commission on the comparability of education acquired in different institutions in all Member States of the European Union. It is said that different diplomas, certificates, certificates and so on are harmonised. In our case, this harmonisation is particularly important due to the introduction of infamous and harmful Bologna reform and the Bologna system to higher education. This is also the reason for us to move from eight-degree qualifications to ten-degree qualifications, and from this point of view, to the truth of the love, the law offers solutions that are satisfactory. The transparency and visibility of qualifications and the coherence of Slovenian and European levels are particularly important in terms of labour flows. The labour force has this unfortunate feature in capitalism, that we cannot separate it from an individual, but that it certainly brings certain difficulties experienced by working people, especially those on the European periphery. For the free movement of capital there is no limit, and the full mobility of capital is fully liberalised. The free movement of people in the European Union today, unfortunately, has only faded. This means not only refugees or migrants crossing the external borders of the European Union as a whole but also citizens of the Member States of this European Union. The right attitude towards migration by the Member States and the European Union is a reason to strengthen racism, xenophobia and thus extreme right-wing, which we can monitor in many parts of Europe and who else would find these processes in Slovenia. The Slovenian Qualifications Framework Act also illustratively points to another, even more basic logic. Education is largely understood as acquiring competence, says we are not talking about knowledge at all, theory, understanding or critical thinking, but only competences. These competences are, of course, translated into fragmented skills or very narrow skills, which are, in some way or other, inexorably useful in the capital production process. However, education is much more, it is the development and release of human potential and therefore the value is on itself. The stated objectives of the law, this is the integration of the labour market and education, for a lot of people it sounds healthy, but subjugating education to capital logic is detrimental to its quality and universal accessibility. Thus, it creates only the essence of public education as such. Although this law manages to avoid the majority of the ideological coatings that we have already practiced in this area and is well written from a crafts perspective, it must also be acknowledged, but there is no way that ideology can be avoided. Of course, we will not eliminate such logic by law, but this law is not the reason for the changes in our higher education space and harmful tendencies, nor can this law eliminate them. However, this law will answer some key questions regarding the Slovenian Qualifications Framework, some realistic and objective needs in the light of transparent and comparable classifications and, as it is said, we will therefore support it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u74	Dear, President, Minister, colleague and colleague! Establishing a uniform system of qualifications in the Republic of Slovenia takes too long. The procedure has been ongoing for many years, and the drafters also state in the text of the bill that the material reflects the 2008 recommendations of the European Parliament and the Council. The first debates in Slovenia are expected to begin in 2005. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, we support the proposed solutions in the draft law and its fundamental principles because we support lifelong learning and the establishment of an effective system of integration of the labour market and education. It is necessary to link and harmonise Slovenian qualifications sub-systems with Europeans and to improve the transparency, accessibility and quality of qualifications in relation to the labour market and the needs of society. Modern society is changing rapidly, and people need to adapt and acquire new knowledge by doing so. However, more transparency and comparability of qualifications in the labour market is urgently needed with membership in the European Union and with these rights and circumstances acquired. Christian Democrats in particular welcome the inclusion in the Slovenian Qualifications Framework of the system of regular education of qualifications acquired outside the system of regular schooling as well as informal work experience and knowledge. The Slovenian Qualifications Framework is not entirely compatible with the European Qualifications Framework because of some specific features of the Slovenian School System in the past, but this is more comparable with this bill. Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats will, of course, support the bill for the above reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Friday, 18th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 12. 2015, in the context of the votes I'm breaking up with this day-to-day thing. We're moving to 11. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the organization and financing of cultivation and education. The draft law was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues, good-bye! 4. In 2014, the Constitutional Court issued a decision. The matter is clear. It is stated that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. Since it is not only the pupils themselves who benefit from compulsory basic education, but also the basic education of the individual serves the public benefit, the Constitution also provided for its public funding. By doing so, she guaranteed the pupils the right to free compulsory primary education. In short, a brief, clear and clear decision of the Constitutional Court. We have already proposed a law in the SDS Group, and we are proposing it in a rather similar form today: but that law has been rejected. In the morning, at the SDS Group, we read a magnetogram of that session. The former Minister, our former fellow Member, said: You have invested too quickly, we have a time of one year, we will prepare system solutions for private primary education. One year will be around, in short, four. 12. 2015 is already behind us when the National Assembly is to take a decision in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, and unfortunately there are no such systemic solutions. Moreover, to our great surprise, the Minister has publicly stated that time is too short and will overtake the Constitutional Court's decision. And this comes from the ranks of a minister who is a member of a party who has come to power with a paradigm of respect for the rule of law! Unfortunately, we have much to say about private education, unfortunately, but we have very few, and this shows all European comparative analyses. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we can talk about 99% of the predominance of public primary schools. On the other hand, the so-called fear of the domination of these private schools, which, as I said before, we have less than one percent in primary education. In the SDS Group, we do not see any fear of establishing new private schools, not religious schools, nor such and different ones, because all institutions for the establishment and approval of private primary schools have a ministry, the Government. It is also very important to point out that the initiators who succeeded in the Constitutional Court did not contest the regime under which private schools should be subject to investment funds, investment maintenance, equipment and public funding. No, no, no. It was exclusively a matter of financing or equalising public and private co-financing for programmes. It's a simple solution. We've been waiting a year for systemic solutions, but there's no solution. It is even sadder when we cross private schools, and we do not talk about it, instead of sharing schools in private and public, we should talk about whether schools are good or bad. In the SDS Group, we believe that these three private schools make us rich not only in public education but in the school sphere. In short, this law is not an ideological or valuable issue, so I ask that we do not go further in the field of ideology, but that we are talking about a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is clear and unequivocal: 100 % of the funding of private primary school programmes and the start of this with the new school year, which is 1 September 2016. We appeal to all those who speak so much in words about respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the rule of law to support this law – a small model in the following systemic solutions, but I believe that by confirming this law we will also give the Ministry two matters: it can resolve what the Constitutional Court has said and buy time for further systemic solutions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u78	Dear President, honourable Members! With regard to the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall deliver the following opinion. Private education was regulated by legislation in 1996. The regulation of this part of the education is based on Articles 54 and 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The regulation of private education also took into account the provisions of the General Declaration on Human Rights, which in Article 26 ensures that parents have the right to choose the type of education for their children and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which further defines private schools as Article 29. In doing so, it is important to note that these provisions are not to be interpreted as violating the right of individuals and bodies to establish and establish or manage educational institutions. A similar definition is known by the Slovenian Constitution, which provides in Article 54, "parents have the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise their children. This right and duty may be withdrawn or restricted to parents only for reasons laid down by law for the protection of children's benefits." Article 57 states that "education is free". The concept of the legal regime of private schools based on these guidelines in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Slovenia is based on the understanding of private schools as schools rich in school space. Private school programmes according to that concept represent additional selection, enrichment mainly of the content diversity and, of course, the programme diversity of school space. The area of private education and kindergartens was regulated by the 1996 legislation so that kindergartens and private schools received public financial support of 85 per cent of the funds paid to the student or student for salaries and material costs, provided that they had obtained the public service of their programmes and had met some other conditions related to the provision of conditions such as space, equipment, software, that is the minimum number of departments, the impact on the public network of schools. Some programmes, particularly those with special pedagogical principles, have made it difficult to provide such a minimum level of entry. This led to an amendment to the legislation by which these conditions were then deleted. The 1996 legislation also regulated the situation of private schools which existed in the field of Slovenia by the application of the law. Following the adoption of this legislation, in 1996, which complemented these options, more private kindergartens, three primary schools and three secondary schools were established. Many of the social changes that have taken place in recent years have strongly updated the issue of the relationship between public private education and not only in Slovenia, of course also wider, internationally. In recent times, a number of studies from different countries are being submitted, and in particular international organisations such as the OECD, such as UNESCO, the United Nations and other analyses, as shown by PISA, are also being carried out. [[Incomprehensible]] What do these studies warn us about? For example, the OECD study draws attention to changes in the social environment and to the many dimensions to be taken into account when analysing the area under consideration. In particular, it recalls the need to take into account the tradition and development of individual school systems, the various factors affecting the placement of private education in national education systems, as well as the definition of private education in changed social conditions. This is mainly the question of when a school is included in the concept of private – that is, in terms of governance, according to the acquisition of public resources, according to the ownership of the premises, according to the ownership of the programmes and other factors. Both this study and the OECD 2014 study – the first in 2012 and the second in 2014, in the English title "How to Public and Private Schools Differ" – deal with broader aspects and issues of placement of private education, accessibility of education, quality, choice rights, comparability. We are also talking about this in the 2011 White Paper in the Slovenian school space. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, from those sources and from changes of social character, therefore proposes the following. In order to reject this proposed law at this time, it considers that it is precisely for those reasons, while respecting or financing existing private schools, that other elements should also be regulated in particular with regard to the functioning of newly established private schools. It is the adoption of programmes, the fulfilment of quality assurance programmes, the entry into alerts and the provision of staffing and material conditions. In doing so, we believe that private schools operating in the Republic of Slovenia, which have gained public validity, have demonstrated by their results that the educational work is carried out in a qualitative manner. Clearer arrangements [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u79	Minister, please, if you finish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u80	further questions are needed in cases where new schools are to be established. [[…]] That such a question is needed [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u81	Minister [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u82	evidence of recent cases in two countries, namely Sweden and Austria. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Let me introductoryly say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law, which we have also tabled instead of the Ministry. The ZOFVI provides in Article 86 that the private school implementing the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be provided for the implementation of the programme with 85 per cent of the resources provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. In the constitutional procedure for the assessment of constitutionality in the work relating to the public education programmes of primary education, the Constitutional Court found that it was inconsistent with the Constitution and provided that the constitutionality established should be abolished within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Europe, in document No 13010 of 4 September 2012, on Resolution 1904, stated that the Council of Europe and the Member States must provide an educational system that ensures equal opportunities and high-quality education for all students to provide such knowledge and values as develop the promotion of fundamental rights and democratic citizenship. They must also ensure the fundamental right to free choice in education in accordance with Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. This right, which is closely linked to the rights to education and freedom of conscience, means the duty of the State to respect the right of parents to provide education in accordance with their own religious and philosophical beliefs. Therefore, the Committee on Culture, Science, Education and Media at the Council of Europe stressed the need to support the principle of state neutrality and pluralism in the national education system and to ensure the survival and quality of the public school network. It also calls on Member States to clearly recognise the legal right to establish private schools and the possibility for them to be part of the national educational system and to be subject to objective and non-discriminatory conditions. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia therefore established by decision of 4 December 2014, published in the Official Journal of 9 January 2015, that the disputed Article should be repealed and amended within one year. So, until 9 January 2016. The fact that parents of compulsory children have been unjustifiably paying tuition for their children since 1996 suggests that the change should be approached immediately. And when the Constitutional Court issues this decision, instead of immediately joining the solution of this problem, instead of immediately getting the law that will follow this decision of the Constitutional Court, what happens? The Minister simply says that she will not respect this decision; she does not respect the Constitutional Court. But this is the mode of operation of this coalition, the Constitution is a Spanish village for you, you break the Constitution when you take the mandate of a member of the National Assembly, you break the Constitution when you prohibit the referendum, you break the Constitution with the assistance of the President of the National Assembly, which is an unlawful, unconstitutional decision – on the basis of this decision that you send documentation to your political police, the political police to the Slovenian Democratic Party, probably also because of laws such as those that we submit, which abolish the anti-constitutional states, because of laws that would bring better life to citizens and citizens. But sooner or later, it'll be over. Last night's action has exposed you. I don't know why you should be afraid of private education too, probably because not everyone will be teaching in this theory of sex that you are now introducing and which Sunday needs to be said no and voted against in the referendum. But you know, the bills are coming. One of them was yesterday when you made such a stunt – I don't think in any normal country of this coalition you could afford to lead with the biggest opposition party and its elbows in the form of Funka, Japlja, Majhenič, these are the leaders of this political police. But on Sunday, the first bill will come, and then all the other bills will come. Citizens and citizens will also give you a mirror because of such laws and also because of the failure to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, except in the case of the Defence Act, which, of course, did suit you. We will vote in favour of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u86	Dear Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We already have a second attempt by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to finance private schools from the state budget. The first was within a few days of the outcome of the constitutional decision; now the second was announced just before the expiry of the deadline made available by the Constitutional Court to the legislator to arrange 100 % of public money for private schools. Of course, it is not possible to challenge the Constitutional Court's decision, which is the highest guardian of constitutional rights in this country. But let me remind you that, by this last decision, the Constitutional Court has essentially denied its two previous decisions, which have been recorded in the direction that the legislator's decision on whether and how much the State of the private school will finance, is in the field of its judgment and is not inconsistent with the Constitution. One of the separate opinions on the last decision is that the Constitutional Court, by its last decision, has interpreted the requirements arising from Article 57(2) of the Constitution too widely and has overstepped the competence of the State to determine for the various schools appropriate ways of financing primary education. The procedure for supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 57 began in mid-February in the National Assembly. Within the framework of the Constitutional Commission, a special expert committee has been appointed, but at the moment it has not come to the expert conclusions on whether it is appropriate in the Constitution to deal in more detail with the financing of compulsory primary education or how this area should be regulated. The latter is a serious issue, according to the assessment of the Desus Group, because in particular it is a matter of ensuring a quality and ideologically or visually unladen and neutral system of education and education. In the Desus Group we advocate the preservation of public education. We are convinced that only through public forms of citizen service can the state guarantee rights to everyone and under the same conditions and, last but not least, to the same quality, whether it is an education area or any other – as a critical case where the situation is quite blurry and problematic, is the area of health. Therefore, it is our assessment that, before we redefine the volume of funds at all, it is necessary to redefine and clearly establish the relationship between public and private. Only as we crystallize this can we further define the legislative or, if you want, the constitutional concept of privacy in the educational and educational sphere and determine the purpose and scope of funding. However, it is also crucial to regulate other elements relating to the functioning of private schools, such as the adoption of programmes, the implementation and quality assurance of programmes, the recording and the provision of staffing and material conditions. Ambassadors and Members of Desus understand public education as a vehicle of public good, which, as an impartially ideological and religious means, gives our children quality and internationally comparable knowledge. Today it is equally accessible to all, as the network of public primary schools is well established and implemented in an organisational and territorial manner. For this reason, in our Group of Members, we believe that the public networks of school space should not be loosened and that private school should simply enrich the existing public school space in a way that represents additional material enrichment and diversity when public programmes are urgently implemented. Therefore, in view of the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision is what it is, the proposed amendments to this novel, whose purpose is focused solely on the issue of financing, but does not address the integrated dimension of the private education issue, we do not support the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u88	Madam Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The autonomy of the educational field is a fundamental prerequisite for a democratic society and thus creating a situation for the peaceful coexistence of different social groups. In countries where respect for the autonomy of this system is also expressed through the functioning of political and civil society organisations, education is over-quality and enjoys a high level of confidence of citizens and citizens. This has been the case in Slovenia so far. Even though part of the political public has never and never been able to resist attempts to usurp, the strong resistance of teachers and parents has so far managed to maintain a political, ideological, philosophical and religiously unladen public school. When the idols of the principles of private initiative realized that public education was not and will not be subordinated, they turned to the idea of establishing a parallel education system. Paradoxically, despite the emphasis on principles, market principles, they have resorted to the generous participation of the budget treasury, which, at the time of their rule for this purpose and with this objective, has also been vacated. Five Constitutional Judges decided a good year ago that the State must equally support public and private primary schools. This decision is in direct contravention of all the judgments adopted by the same institution until then, of course, in a number of modified staff compositions. Therefore, we would expect such a radical deviation to be properly explained. However, the five judges used in their arguments the modest words and political pamphlets of the proponents of the private education and education system. Therefore, in that case, it is a fundamental derogation from the development of legal thought which cannot be uncritically established by the dogma on the infallibility of the Constitutional Court. In particular, in this case, not when a number of questions to be raised later in the debate remain unanswered. Five judges were overlooked, even though they were warned by a colleague in two separate opinions. In view of the above, it is therefore not possible to avoid the impression that this case is an express personal, ideological and at least legal decision. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are opposed to a proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which would compare it with the public, at least as far as funding is concerned. Lawmakers, as the only argument in full budget support for private education, thus offer a mantra on the right of parents to provide their children with education and education in accordance with their own religious or philosophical beliefs. Let us stress that the Social Democrats have never disputed the wishes of a group of parents, but point out that the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights clearly make it necessary for parents to exercise and care for these rights, not for the State as such. The State shall have the right to respect, but not to exercise, enforce or finance such a right. In doing so, the demands of the former apologists of the free market world that all citizens and citizens take part in the exercise of an extremely private interest — to say the least — are unseemly. Moreover, in our belief, compliance with such requirements and wishes would undermine the established relations between public and private and private, opening the door wide not only to promote economic interest, but also to achieve ideological, political goals, which in primary schools have nothing to look for. At least in education, as well as in other areas of social life. Supporters of the private education system are raising suspicions about the relative low share of private education and the over-quality they are supposed to achieve. But as it turns out, they're not holding on to each other. The international comparison shows that all countries with over-the-counter financing of private education from public funds, by the way, Slovenia is among them at the summit, do not necessarily have a large share of private education or vice versa. The scope of private education is thus largely the result of the social policy development of individual countries. It is also not possible to confirm that private school students are more successful. This cannot be said in particular for Slovenia, where a private school itself decides who it will accept, while the public, as it is right, adopts everyone. Is it fair, therefore, if the State supports such an exclusive educational club in its entirety and even on a public account, as is the result of an explanation of the assessment of the financial consequences? No! No! Nor is it fair to waive the right to a quality and accessible system of education and education by transferring funds from public to private children in public schools. Every time a public-private debate opens up, part of the political space runs into thin ice of ideological conflicts. By simplifying the problem, they want to avoid in-depth debate, which in a developing Europe virtually always ends with a clear expression of support for primary care and funding for public primary education. What is only logical is that the country is playing its fundamental and primary role in the implementation of public services. However, where its concern is to pursue the interests of the private sector, the presence in this case is, of course, entirely unnecessary. Social Democrats are aware of the importance of education for further development and we see it as a public good, so we have also tabled a proposal for amendments to the Constitution with a provision that clearly expresses the requirement that the State should take primary care of the quality and accessibility of public education, while the decision to co-finance private schools remains the same as it has so far regulated the law. Trust in the law is one of the fundamental rights of a democratic society at the end of the day. This does not mean that the decisions taken by the courts must always be liked by everyone, but, above all, when they are not, they must be thoroughly reasoned. This is a condition for confidence in the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in its decision, demanded an equalisation of the financing of public and private schools. We have no confidence in this decision based on an explanation, thorough and clear, but we do not have the Social Democrats. The answer to one key question in this case also raises a number of others. Is it appropriate that the State equally supports private, even if it offers substantially less than public? Should the State view private education in the same way, even if the criteria for who will be involved in this education are determined by the private person if you want an education provider, or even if it is privately financed through tuition, if there are types of other forms of education in the field of private education, the latter, as is customary, are not supported by public funds? So where are the borders and where are the logics of making such decisions or proposing such legislation? Colleagues and colleagues! In order to understand the importance of individual constitutional provisions, the Constitution must be seen as a single document. Its basic definition of the country as a social one also highlights the fairness and accessibility of the school system, which can only be implemented within the public domain and for the benefit of all. At the moment when the border between public and private is deleted, the social state will not be formally removed. The determination, which was managed by my predecessors in the Social Democrats' parliamentary groups at the time of the Slovenian Constitution's establishment, will only be too much constitutional decoration if such decisions are confirmed. This is not what the Social Democrats will agree to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education introduced by the SDS for the second time this year is an illustration of the trend, but also a deliberate effort towards undermining the foundations of a public, accessible and quality school system, and, of course, replacing it with a private offer in our educational principles. In the United Left, we reject any favoritism of private education, so we will vote against the bill we have before us. The decision of the Constitutional Court on the financing of publicly recognised private school programmes is not in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and is not in accordance with the interests of most people in that country. Constitutional judges and judges have their views, and in this case, they – and this is all before a lonely decision – have taken a small majority of private interest to the detriment of public, common interest. The right path is to amend Article 57 of the Constitution and to clearly defend public education. In recent years, education and education, if not for a decade, have been the subject of an extremely negative trend in intrusion of private interests into the public good. It is logical that the private owner of the school does not have and cannot have the same interest as the state, either motivates him to profit or motivate him to include his beliefs in the curriculum in some way or another, usually ideological goal. Where approaches or methods of alternative models for the implementation of the pedagogical approach are objectively more appropriate, more humane and effective, and so on, it is, of course, the task of the public school system to incorporate them into its teaching practice in accordance with its professional assessment. On the other hand, private interest is intruding in the form of so-called cooperation with an economy that is a neoliberal mantra, as repeated by the entire political establishment. Students and students are already subject to entrepreneurial content in such and different forms in the earliest years. Of course, socialisation is behind these contents into the chastity, the fate of non-permanent and typical jobs and neoliberal principles according to the principle: each individual is an entrepreneur. Madam President, if you would like to warn the right-wing tribunal to remain silent while I present my position. Thank you. The solution is consistent between private and public. At the same time, we would step on the privileged elites in the public sector, who are rich at the expense of most employees, but it is not only the former Minister of Education, Senator Cankar, whom we have apparently all forgotten, although nothing has been done and changed in this area. It is also about the fact that there is a layer in public institutions that has privileged access to both economic and political forms of power, that we should talk here about doctors who work through espies in the afternoon, or about professors in universities who pay their astronomical fees. In the United Left, we strongly oppose the public financing of private schools, both those with concessions and those without them. What does an additional 15 per cent of the funding for private schools implementing public programmes mean? Fully funded private schools will only be able to achieve higher standards of education with a small contribution from parents or a supplement that can be called tuition, which, of course, leads in the long term to the predominance of private education over public education. Such education is not universally available, but it is selective on the basis of property, which also strengthens class divisions in society because we eventually get one school system for the poor and one for the rich. In addition, let us not forget how, due to austerity measures and belt tightening, public education is completely undernourished, yet new and new cuts are being announced over and over again. In the same ways that it is severely saved, private schools are parasitic. This is a clear neoliberal attack on public education, leading to increasing commercialisation, poorer quality and increasing inequality in Slovenian society. Indeed, the Constitutional Court's decision refers to the financing of public programmes, but private schools are in fact a special form of public-private partnership where private interests are financed through public funds. If the schools were private, it would be only understandable that they were also privately financed. That education has become public that it has become secular, otherwise it has been said that it has started to be taken over and organised by the state, but not by some private institution, historically taken over by religious communities, is one of the major achievements of the European education project. Of course, the country is also pursuing some of its goals, as education is not carried out in a social vacuum – the school is currently raising students and students for a capitalist society. Nevertheless, universal access to quality education is crucial, as the school system represents one of the most egalitarian mechanisms in society, which is hampered by such and different contradictions and inequalities. It enables social mobility, although not sufficiently applicable, eliminates the differences in social benefits and disadvantages that each person is given to varying degrees at birth. In order to equalise differences and to allow equal opportunities, the school system must strive from basic education forward, not to strengthen these differences, which would, of course, be a logical consequence of the 100 % funding of public programmes in private schools. Education and knowledge must be accessible to all, since intellectual heritage is the property of all mankind. At the same time, from a developmental point of view, quality and accessible public education is an alternative to peripheral underdevelopment, where, through privatisation, belt tightening and structural reforms, all the last governments are taking us without exception. Instead of the proposed amendments, it is necessary to amend Article 57 of the Constitution as soon as possible, but unfortunately, the re-parliamentary cycle is moving too slowly, or these changes have been lost somewhere in the counting of individual party interests. It is clear, however, that in the United Left SDS, we absolutely reject the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We reject it because it is a continuation of the neoliberal attack on public education, we reject it because in the United Left we strongly support the laity, quality and accessible public education for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. It is a pity that you did not intervene during the speech, during the hostile speech of the Member of the National Assembly, which mars the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and did not stop it. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I ask that you continue to stop Members of the National Assembly when they make hate speech and defam the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, but above all I ask you to stop Members who speak 90 per cent of their time in presenting the position of the Group of Members about everything other than the law before us, which is written on the basis of the amendment or decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, you had three things at your disposal, Madam Vice-President, and you were silent in the course of the debate. In the following I ask you to stop such debaters as the predecessor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I have to say this out loud, I may have had it before, but it is terribly disturbing and it is incorrect that when it is held in the National Assembly either in plenary session or at any committee, Members of the SDS are having a loud time, laughing, talking; in short, they are acting like those of the last class of the elementary school who are not at all willing to listen to the debate, they are not willing to participate in the debate, they are doing a kind of "darmary" and they are acting extremely uneducated. This is extremely problematic for the quality of the discussion. Why I got involved in this at this point, but it's because this kind of unfair entertainment behavior has made me extremely disturbed during the presentation of the United Left's position, because you've already stood up for the speaker, and you know how disturbing it is for you to have a jap, jap, jap, jap on your left or right side which loads and loads something with a full voice. It's my first wish to intervene in such instances, because, as it were said, today was not a lonely, isolated case. This today is a constant practice of the activities, procedures and irregularities of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. That's the first thing. The second thing — how interesting — is the use of hate speech by those who actually use it. But they see this to us, to all others, who really do not and never serve the enemy speech. Once again, we are witnessing a classic right-wing strategy when it comes to the role of the victim, in this case with a belly expression, with the expression of hate speech, although apparently it does not yet know how to define it. President, at this point I would like to ask you to protect my integrity and not remove these manipulative calls for the sanctioning of the enemy speech, while there has never been an enemy speech at any point at this moment, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u96	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Even though I wasn't in the gym, I was watching TV in my office. I am interested in or would ask you to tell me, given that Member Kordish said that he was on the right hand side, now I do not know whether only the SDS or New Slovenia meant hostile speech. Tell me what was the hate speech in our performances. If he made a procedural proposal concerning us — a hate speech — I would like to hear what we said was an hate speech. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. First of all, about this hate speech, I'm going to go through the magnetogram and let you know during the session. This happened once today, so let me tell you this. With regard to the debate itself, this is the case; in fact, the SDS Group, in fact, their position was slightly different from that of the point itself, so that I allowed the debate or presentation of the views of the members of the groups to continue. We are now moving to the position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! It is difficult to have this dialogue in the temple of Slovenian democracy. At least some basic rules should be followed, namely the rules of dialogue, which of course are not written in the constitution and elsewhere, but any attack on the Constitution is problematic. The proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education brings very important changes. A good year has passed since the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which decided in the constitutional procedure that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the workplace relating to public education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has provided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this provision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia; therefore, within one year! When establishing non-compliance with the provisions on the co-financing rate of the implementation of public primary education programmes, the Constitutional Court also stressed, inter alia, that primary education is compulsory in Slovenia and parents have the right to choose primary education for their children in a state or private school, which implements a public primary school programme and can also choose home education – purely as a day. The main schools in the Republic of Slovenia include three private public primary school providers out of a total of 458 elementary schools in Slovenia, representing only 0.7 per cent; I emphasise 0.7 per cent! We Christian Democrats once again find that the right of parents to choose the way their children are educated is being substantially curtailed in this state's attitude towards private education. The fact is that only one person receives 100 % co-financing from private public school providers, i.e. equivalent to state schools and only 85 % of the funds remain. In doing so, let us stress that it is the means to provide salaries and other benefits and to cover the material costs of the activities and tasks necessary to carry out the educational activity. Let me get on with it. In doing so, the Constitutional Court, regardless of what we think of the Constitutional Court, must respect it, explicitly stated that the application and the resulting decision and reasoning do not relate to investment, investment maintenance and equipment and that it does not refer to the specific content offered by private primary schools, for example, confessional education and other matters. The Decision on non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia refers solely and exclusively to the different state funding of public school programmes in different schools, state and private. Christian Democrats know that quality private schools are an asset to Slovenian school space, providing choices, improving the quality of education and promoting healthy competitiveness, and, last but not least, they are cheaper for the country than state schools. Members of the New Slovenia Party - Christian Democrats will, of course, support the proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, because we are following the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The issue of financing education and education in the National Assembly was last met at the time of the Constitutional Court's decision. This decision is also the basis for the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education that is ahead of us today. We have already made clear in the Alliance's Group Alenka Bratušek that we are opposed to the privatisation of the public education system, and we are also in favour of this position in the Group of Unaffiliated Members. In 2001, the Constitutional Court defined itself until the public service of education and education and stated to what extent the State is obliged to finance the public network and compulsory primary education programmes. The Constitutional Judges wrote, inter alia, quote, "... the idea that the parents of children who send children to private schools and have to pay tuition are in an unequal position compared to those whose children attend public schools, but from the perspective of the Constitution is not justified. The legislator's decision to finance countries entirely only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution." End of quote. The new law before us does not follow the original decision of the Constitutional Court, which we agree with, so we cannot support the amendment of the law. We are convinced that we must strengthen public education and advocate its quality. Of course, we do not interfere with the establishment and functioning of private schools, but we must prevent public education from being privatised. We are convinced that all children in the Republic of Slovenia need to be given access to quality public education and that the primary education programme in public schools should be applicable to regular primary school programmes, additional professional assistance programmes for children with guidance decisions and adapted programmes for children's education with special needs fully funded by public funding. This should also apply to that part of the education programmes of private primary schools, which are fully in line with the public and the changes to the basic programme and the superstandard programmes should be financed from other sources. We are convinced that this is the only way to ensure equality and equivalence at the level of the State approach to education. We therefore support the view that the state is not obliged to fully finance private schools, but must not hinder their establishment and operation, as this enables healthy competitiveness, positive feedback and higher levels of demands of modern education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u102	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister and Team, Dear Fellows and Fellows! Today we again have before us a proposal for a law following the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014. The Court held that the first sentence of Article 86, second paragraph, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public education programmes is unconstitutional. It is a matter of public funding for private schools without concessions implementing public programmes. This is also the question of the conditions that these schools have to meet in order to have the resources of the State budget or the budget of the local community. Since the adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court until today, this decision has often been subject to controversy and unfortunately also to ideological objections. In the SMC Group, we believe that this is a much more important issue than just ideologically. Since the adoption of the Constitutional Court's decision, we are also facing some current social changes and processes that we are facing in particular all citizens and citizens, which we must not neglect in the context of the distinction between public and private in the field of education and education. This is also illustrated by the recent experience of our northern neighbour, who has already banned the operation of one of the private schools. In the SMC Group, we are also today in the position that private implementation of educational activities must be understood as a complement to the public, within which the rights of parents and children to choose are guaranteed. Unfortunately, in our country, we have not yet been able to answer some conceptual questions about the distinction between public and private, both on a basic basis and in specific areas of social participation. The field of education is only one of them, and in this area it also shows that the extent of public co-financing of private education and the conditions for private education have been one of the most important in the last 15 years. Other important issues such as the validation of educational programmes, the implementation and quality assurance of programmes, the entry into the register and some others have not been able to be resolved. In this regard, it is important to look ahead, in the future and not only to resolve the current situation. We reiterate that this is all the more important because of current social flows and changes. Human rights are one of the reasons for regulating the situation of private education, especially when we are talking about the right of parents to choose education. This reference to international conventions is also mentioned by the applicants in the explanation of the bill. Of course we don't have a problem with that. However, international documents require only that the parties do not prohibit the choice. In the SMC Group, we therefore do not want to discuss whether private education is yes or no today, because under our legislation it is already placed in the system, so we do not prohibit or restrict it and is, above all, understood as an enrichment of the public school space. It is said that with private schools or their programs, something is introduced into the school space that is not available to public schools. Of course, we do not object to this, and in this light we also respect the Constitutional Court's decision. However, allowing for a private initiative in the school area has never been unconditional, and in this context some of the issues already mentioned need to be raised, particularly with regard to the establishment and functioning of new private schools in the future. The draft law before us today does not deal with this issue in its entirety, as we would like, so we will not give it support in the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I hoped that I would not have to react to the views of the parliamentary groups at all, because, in the first law we introduced in January or February 2015, I said that from the position of the United Left I would not dispute, because their hate speech on private matters, their encouragement to violate the Constitution is a shame to lose words, but allow me to respond to some of the other statements made by Members in the views of their parliamentary groups. First of all, Madam Minister, I must say that I regret that in five and a half minutes you have devoted only a good half minute to the decision of the Constitutional Court, you have talked about all the other documents, and unfortunately I have come to the end of this feeling that you have either an idea or perhaps, above all, the views of the sending groups, particularly Desus and SD, a certain spirit, when you talk about how you will systematically solve the subject or the issue of private education, that you are inclined to do what the SD Group has already proposed, which is a change of constitution and the abolition or prohibition of the further establishment of the concept of private in the field of education. I hope not. First of all, a fellow SMC member gives another positive hope that you will not go in this direction, because her position was very credible, except of course that she said that they respect the Constitutional Court's decision, but they will be against the law which we know is the last time that, if we want to follow the Constitutional Court's decision, this law is also confirmed. But, indeed, Madam Minister, if you have a problem within the coalition regarding this debate, what is public, what is private education, please read the Constitutional Court decision on the financing of the programme in primary schools to all coalition types. Today, however, we have heard about private education in general, as if we do not know that we have kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, universities and even what we forget many times, and this is adult education. I recall one urgent meeting of the Committee on Adult Education on how this coalition has pushed adult education into private life, just so that we, in the ministry and we members of the coalition, can be resolved as a public issue of adult education. In short, we still have great expectations from you, which I have asked you personally for the last time, and I really hope that you will not go to some family of certain parts of this coalition, which wants to deliberately destroy everything that touches the word in private. Then, if you'll excuse me, Vice-President, I would like to respond as a proposal to the individual position of the groups of Members. Comrade Wilfan of Desus said that there was one separate opinion, but you know how much the Constitutional Court's decision and the very rare decisions of the Constitutional Court are unanimous. Is there any 5 : 4, 6 : 3, 7 : 2, 8: 1 – since you know this mathematically exists and usually those who are in the minority against say a separate opinion, even though sometimes those who are for, constitutional judges, say an additional separate opinion why they are for. And now to say, because one of the nine constitutional judges had a separate opinion, and it is a saving one, it is about as if the smallest parliamentary group in the National Assembly said, but we are against, but ours must be informed. It's kind of like that, isn't it? For example, if, I don't know, I don't have to be insulted by colleagues from New Slovenia, either from SD, or from the United Left, as one of the smaller parties, we say, "No, we are against this law, but it has to be exactly what we want, because this is our separate opinion." Mr Wilfan spoke about the preservation of public education. No one takes anything from public education. We have one percent or less than one percent of public or private primary education. Even if we give it all together, from kindergartens, where it may be a little bit more favourable to the establishment of private kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, we are far below the average European countries have for private education. And you want to keep public education. Of course, the Constitutional Court did not say that a public-private balance must be violated or broken, only the right in the Constitution must be given. Sometimes I have the feeling that some Members would like to abolish the private sector, but I wonder how many of your children are going to private kindergartens, who are using the private health system, the dental system, who wants to have a private economy, and so on, because from the words set out: We are against the private. Determining! Above all, she stood that side over there across from me and those three parties. We're against private! I understand that economists and craftsmen now have the problem of not supporting this government, at least the obvious part of this government coalition, when they want to get a private initiative, and if not the other way around, the state strikes them, saying, "No, no, but in private with us -- we're about to throw it out of the constitution." For the last time, I said that the last extreme measure would, unfortunately, be the abolition of private property in such debates as was by certain Members. For even certain speeches that were spoken today seem to me to have had some continuity of the period before 1998. Speaking of private, let's put ourselves on the trenches and do this ideologically. Sadly, however, the craftsmen have not yet come to the conclusion that this is clearly an ideological topic and that they are therefore no longer welcome. It has been repeatedly said that we have an impartial public education, politically, lazily, and I do not know how. Really? In this independent school, for example – I hope that I will not be characterized as referring to the referendum – it is actively involved in the referendum campaign, when a referendum awaits us on Sunday. This independent and non-ideological education deals with the referendum and we all know where their speeches go. Finally, even Mr Wilphan himself concludes that even though the decision is as it is, we are against it. And they also repeated this in the SD and, unfortunately, the most or not unfortunately, most of all in the United Left. Decision of the Constitutional Court – Spanish village! It is truly sad for this composition of the National Assembly when we interpret the Constitution or the decision of the Constitutional Court according to our political beliefs. In the end, of course, it is still on the right hand side of the Constitutional Court. And we all know under which president of the country most of the constitutional judges were not appointed, named — respected, appointed! As legal experts! And we're just getting a little excited, if we have to put any MPs in jail for violating the Constitution, after the Constitutional Court says you made a mistake, no one will apologize, and here it is today. We have a constitution and the Constitutional Court has said that this constitution must be respected – but not! Yes, we have a fine decision by the Constitutional Court, and we're against it. Once again, Mr. Škobrne said, "Someone wants to submit to public education." 0.7% of primary education is private. 0.7 percent! And how is 0.7 percent to be made public? With what, how? I really don't understand! And even this fear of how Catholic schools are supposed to come into being, I don't know, how Catholic schools are supposed to come into being, I don't know, I hope that someone has no fear of Islamic schools and so on. It's all in the hands of the expert bodies at the Ministry, and then it's finally in the government, and there's no fun in that 0.7% of private primary education. I would like to stress once again, and I really ask those who will continue to debate you on the basis of the draft law and the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is an equalisation of funding for programmes, but today we are talking about private education. Like I said before, from all the school system to investment, I don't know what. Only for 100 % equivalence and 100 % funding of public programmes. As you know, if you want to have a public-private school at all, this private school must first be registered with the Ministry and the Ministry has all the conditions to say no and these private schools do not meet the conditions. At the end of the 9th class, all students receive the same certificate: you have performed a public program, whether they have a 100-year-old gym and school somewhere, or have the most modern didactic tools, or the most modern school – they are all the same and eligible for 100% funding of programs. Indeed, Mr Vice-President, I will continue to speak when everyone talks about private general financing of private education, because this law and this decision of the Constitutional Court do not talk about it; it speaks of private primary school programmes. I believe you can resist – no problem, you will only break the Constitution a little bit, the minister said you will prepare a system law; but respectable, if anyone reads the tapegram of our former colleague Mrs Klaudije Markeš, she said exactly that, by the time we have one year, we will arrange for the financing of private primary school programmes and some other questions. Today we could solve some percentage of these systemic solutions that you so like to promise, and next time we would have one less ideological if you wanted, or a less valuable debate in the National Assembly. But according to the individual Members' speech, I have a feeling that next time we will have an even more valuable and ideological theme, because we will not only talk about this small segment, but like today most about the whole segment. Finally, I believe that we will also meet with proposals to amend Article 57 of the Constitution. I hope that Mr Skobernet was engaged when he said that there was no need for respectable court decisions if we did not like them. I hope it's okay in the magnetogram, but if I've just written it down, "There's no need to respect the decisions of the courts if we don't like them." I hope that Mr Škoberne has said this, I hope he will at least apologize to the Slovenian public if he does not already propose the law, because as long as we have the courts, we do not have to agree with them, but we must respect the judgments of the courts. As I have already said, it is almost a shame for colleagues from the United Left to debate because their logic comes not only from the time before 1989, but also from the concept of this Europe in which we live. Once again, when colleague Bon Klanjšček spoke about the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2001 and 2013 – and I will conclude slowly with this – it is a completely different decision. The 2001 decision said no, the law can regulate private funding in education. This decision, however, speaks only of one moment – primary education, funding of programmes. That is why it is a small or ignorance of the territory which the lady presides over, or a lapsus, or a conscious lie. Moreover, the colleague said that superstandards should be financed from other sources. That's right! Indeed, we have no problems in the SDS Group. Anyone who wants a superstandard should afford it, but they should buy it. But funding programs in both public primary education and private education is not superstandard, but it is what the Constitution and the law allow. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that until the next debate, perhaps in this law with systemic solutions, as well as in the area of the remaining problem of education, which is a great deal, which we have also learned last time with the Minister, sports, the law on higher education, the law on high school, the law on research activities, so that our spears will not break again about what is private and what is public and how it destroys in private. Madam Minister, when this debate comes to light if it comes to it, in the light of today's views of the Group of Members, I hope that you will first support the colleagues of the SMC Group, where I feel that you are probably mainly based on the fact that you are members of the European political group ALDE, which means liberals, that you will also give at least one or two percent of the opportunity to the private within the school field, because if you listen to another part of the coalition and the Chamber of the National Assembly, I fear that we will not only come to the abolition of private education, but also to the abolition of a number of other areas from the so-called private field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like you to point out to my fellow debater that he does not turn our opinions, that he does not explain what we did not say, and that he does not interpret our sentences, words, positions maliciously or, if I consider it, manipulatively. One thing I would like not to take too long for a magnetogram, I said, "This does not mean that we must always like the decisions made by the courts, but especially when they are not us, these decisions must be properly explained." At no point have I ever and never called for contempt of court decisions. That would be extremely inappropriate, and I find it inappropriate that things like this happen. Even yesterday, when I thought it was unfair for the police to have conducted an incomplete investigation in my opinion, I said this, so I would ask that some things not be clear to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you, fellow Scoberne! I'm saying, I said I hoped it would be right and right in the magnetogram, but I was writing to myself quickly, and I said I hope I got your speech wrong. If this has really been said, as has been said, I apologize. It was not my intention — as you said before — to speak differently, as you said, and, if that is true, to apologize deeply. [[...]] However, I do not apologize for any other words, nor did I categorize you as to how they spoke, how the five judges dared, and not the entire Constitutional Court pass a decision on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Mr. Joseph Horat ready. Here you go, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings for me, too! If my colleague Jan Škoberne was critical of the proposer, this time I will commend him. Indeed, the proposaler himself estimates that the Social Democrats are the first advocate of public education, and that is true. As it was possible to understand from the points of view of Parliamentary parties, we are not alone in this; we are more than one. The vast majority of the parties in the National Assembly kind of want and seek a distinction between one another, but I will add here, the Social Democrats are not explicitly against private schools where public education is impossible to implement, and especially in cases where it is privately financed 100% from non-public sources. Therefore, today's debate seems more important to us, so that my colleagues will also make the other proposals in the debate that follows today. Perhaps, however, for a distance from my colleagues, it would be particularly difficult to identify the issue that the applicant has initially touched on, particularly in the international legal context, when we speak of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in some way, if I quote, 'no one should be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." No international convention, I will add, nor does international practice commit to financing private schools. This is the foundation of schools, and this is a fundamental difference. One is funding, the other is allowing. In the part where the proposalr in some way challenged, this is document 13-010 of Resolution 19-04, the document is legally non-binding, this is my emphasis. This is the document which the applicant discussed in the introductory paragraphs. It is not a convention or other international agreement that the State would ratify in the National Assembly. That's the key. In this case, it is a purely political document of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In Slovenia we have a generous scope of public funding, which is not followed by the scope of private schools. It's interesting, my focus is mainly on Finland. Finland is often exposed as a country with an extremely good education system, but here it must be stressed that Finland is the one with the lowest share of private education in Europe. By comparison, our Western neighbour has many private schools, but let me stress that these are in 100% funding, not from public funds. Let me touch just one more part that has been mentioned: the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and the position of the European Commission. These are two aspects that I would like to point out only at the conclusion. The common feature of all judgments and attitudes that have judged the right of parents to raise children in accordance with their own religious, moral or philosophical beliefs is that the State must respect such a right. That's what I was talking about. However, it is certainly not the right of the State to exercise this right within the framework of a public school, but it must allow parents to exercise this right within the framework of private education, which, as a clear result of judgements and views, does not have to be financed or established by the State. We have a relatively good education, and we also need to keep it that it is possible for all to have access to public education for those who are less wealthy and those who are more wealthy. For this, the Social Democrats will fight to the best of our ability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mrs. Vesna Vervega ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished candidates, dear colleagues and colleagues! True, we have a good school system, but it's probably true that it could be better. And the country, the legislator, has to make arrangements so that we have the best school system. What's he gonna be, private or public? Me, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats advocate a public school system, including private schools. On 6 January this year, the Constitutional Court decided that the different financing of primary school programmes for public and private schools, as provided for by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, is unconstitutional. We are content with this decision, even more so — enthusiastic. Perhaps because our former mayor and Member of the European Union's mandate 2004-2008, including the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, was also a member of the Committee of the Regions today and so on, Mr Anton Kokalj, is a member of our party. As it is said, we are thrilled about this decision, and we expected that within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court, this unconstitutionality would also be remedied. I believe that Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič has good ideas and good will to implement this, which was imposed by the Constitutional Court, but the devil is in detail. And let's say this detail today is the coalition government. Every thing has to be coalitionly coordinated, because we know that. I used to be a member of the world of the primary school that my children attended. The director then said a very significant point, he said, "Basic schools must also be competitive." At first, I didn't understand, and then I understood what he was going to say. Perhaps because it was at that time that the principal also attended a high school for management; I do not know what this school was called. Competition – competition in nature, which operates under natural laws, competition, if you want, in education, competition in the economy – is certainly a driver of development, which is how we view it. And I say the following: why should the state invest in hardware, read walls, gyms, classes, classrooms, if it doesn't have money? Why wouldn't a privateer do that if he had the will, because the economic impact would never, this investment would never come back to him. But let the country invest in software, and these are programs, funding programs. That's the key. Let me get on with it. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, this provision provides pupils with the right to attend the compulsory primary education public education programme free of charge, irrespective of whether it is exercised by a public legal entity or by a private body. Colleagues and colleagues, we have three private primary schools in Slovenia, now we are talking about primary schools, three. One, two, three primary schools, private schools implementing a public education programme. As the first private primary school in Slovenia, Waldorf School Ljubljana began operating in the school year 1992/1993. A few years ago, two more began working, namely the Aloysian School of Schusthar and Montessori Institute. And this school year these three private elementary schools were attended by just over a thousand students. The scope of State funding for these primary schools is different, which the Constitutional Court in January of this year declared to be a non-constitutional decision. The basic and secondary private schools established before 1996 were then allowed to carry out public service on the basis of a concession under the concession contract. The private school, however, accounted for the same percentage of funds as the public school. Let's see the numbers, if we're talking about funding. Source, I did not make up the source of these figures – the realisation of the funds following the decision on the extent of the financing of the activities in 2014. Estimated average cost of implementing the programme on the average school base in 2014 at annual level. Regular primary schools, 450 of them, total costs of the programme – a million 288 000 303 euros; out of these, labour costs – a million 237 thousand 654 euros, of which the material cost is 50 thousand 649 euros. And second, very important, because I was talking about hardware, the estimated average cost of building a primary school with a gym, because it has to be a gym, a healthy spirit in a healthy body, a mens sana and a corpore sana, without VAT, is an average of a thousand 280 euros. It is said that we can use a rough estimate that for an average of 5,000 square metres, a large school with a gym will reach between €6 and €6.5 million without VAT. Without VAT, the square meter is approximately EUR 280 if you negotiate well. From the above data, it is sufficiently clear and experimentally evident that each founder of a private school bears the full cost of an investment, which is more multi-millionaire and which never returns to it, as I have already said. Are you going to invest, do we have any here, or are we heroes, Members of Parliament and Members, to throw together 6 million and build a primary school?Oh, my God! Put your hands up. There won't be any. However, we do have some private individuals or institutions of a private character who establish, build a school or rebuild some old architecture. The largest percentage of financing for private primary schools is the cost of implementing a programme to be implemented by the primary school in accordance with regulations that are in no way different from public school. In any event, public and private school students must pay extra than the standard; in any case. The Constitutional Court therefore equates the financing of a public and private standard with the State of the required or approved programme, as in the case of specific teaching methods. From the point of view of the State, private school funding is reduced for investment and maintenance of facilities. Even in the field of human resources, nothing really changes, as private school must also employ teachers with appropriate education who are in the labour market in the country. In the event of a decision by the Constitutional Court, we can talk and actually need to talk about 100 % of the funding of the programme in private primary schools and not 100% of the financing of private primary schools, because the Constitutional Court does not and does not require it. We're talking about 100 percent mandatory funding from the country of the burned program. That's all this is about. It's not about the hardware. The argument that private education has additional resources is not true, as public schools are also able to raise funds for default from participants or donors. I conclude that it does not seem appropriate for us to have a proposal to amend the Constitution as a result of this decision of the Constitutional Court of January this year by one of the coalition parties. And that was said to be unworthy. I'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! We have the Constitution, we have the Constitutional Court's decision, true colleague Lisec. We are fully in agreement with that, and in the light of that, we will also be discussing this today. The decision of the Constitutional Court must be taken into account. The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is the most important law in the educational and educational verticals and has been putting private schools in its system since 1996. It is therefore very important how and with what changes we will make every amendment to this law. It is true that the Constitutional Court ordered the legislator to abolish the contraryness of the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the ZOFVI within one year, which is until January 2016. However, it should be pointed out that we have a number of decisions, other decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have not yet been implemented for such and other reasons. I will give one example, in the area of higher education, despite the 2011 decision, the legislator has ordered the abolition of the non-compliance of the Higher Education Act and the Regulation on public funding of higher education and other institutions with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the definition of public service in higher education and the regulation of the method of financing. The deadline for implementing this decision of the Constitutional Court was very short. The legislator had only nine months to remedy this finding of non-compliance. This has not yet been achieved, the two governments have changed in between and the implementation of this decision is being prepared, as far as we are aware, within the framework of the amendment of the Higher Education Act. Such cases suggest that the resolution of individual complex issues goes beyond a time dimension determined by the Constitutional Court. With this, of course, we do not wish or wish to diminish the importance of this decision by the Constitutional Court, which, once again, I stress, must be respected. It is also true that in Slovenia about 1.5% of primary and secondary schools are private; and I do not stand in the position that private schools are threatening public education. On the contrary, they complement and enrich it, allow parents to choose their child’s type of education freely, as has already been the case with the applicants. However, the level of funding for private primary schools is not the only criteria to be taken into account and I therefore believe that the proposal for a law is flawed. If I further highlight one of the criteria to be discussed is the adoption of private school programmes. The second paragraph of Article 17 of the current ZOFVI provides that the private school education programme shall become public when the competent professional council finds that the programme is in line with the objectives of the education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia as set out in Article 2 of the ZOFVI and that it provides an equivalent educational standard. Public primary schools implement existing programmes and private schools can use these existing programmes; additional content which they wish to include in their educational programme must also be further verified by the professional council. In this case, it is a programme which becomes public; not a publicly applicable programme. In the light of private education, I believe that the verification of educational programmes should also be discussed. I have highlighted one of these issues that the proposal for a law on the part of the proposers somehow does not address. The history of ZOFVI changes in private school work, and this is not only Article 86, shows that so far the controversy has also addressed the issue of the conditions for financing private schools, which have become increasingly flexible with these legislative changes and innovations, if I can also use the word - loose. The subject of public debate was also Article 87, which deals with the protection of the public network; then Article 34, which provides for the conditions for entry into the register. All these issues remain open and are not foreseen by the current bill. It is therefore right and also time to resolve private education issues in a broader debate on this at the same time respect for the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Decision of the Constitutional Court, I think I can assess or assess in this sense that it follows somehow the general belief in Slovenia that you can be a private person; but at the expense of the state. And this is the key controversy that is taking place not only in the field of education, but also in other areas in Slovenia very intensively. Many would be private, but the state should provide money. It would be very important to clear this view of the future. If someone also wants to conduct education as a private person, then it is expected that he will also provide his own resources in doing so and also provide a very quality program that will be interesting enough for students, students or students to join such a school. However, when it comes to the fact that they also have the same public education programme as it does in public schools, we have done nothing, since the network of primary schools is mainly built and there is no need for this network to be expanded with private schools. In the absence of such a network, a solution should be sought, especially if the state failed to provide funds for such a network. In order to avoid ambiguity in the support or non-support of this law, which has been tabled by the applicants for consideration, I must also state very clearly the proposal to amend the Constitution, which is also drafted and co-signed by the Social Democrats. This suggests that primary education is compulsory and financed through public funding in public schools. Private primary schools may also be co-financed from public funds under conditions and at the level provided for by law. With this change to the Constitution, I could certainly get to the point where we would encourage individuals who have an interest in education to offer better quality programmes, to offer private resources for this purpose, as quality is usually paid or paid for on the market. And this resolution of the Constitution would be the one which would be this dilemma, which was somehow established by the Constitutional Court by its decision, namely that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, it should be understood that it is financed, whether carried out in a private institution or in a public institution, at a rate of one hundred percent. I think it would be better if we allowed as much quality education in Slovenia as possible in the way that private people try to prove themselves with quality and also with their own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Ivan Škodnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u118	The decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the law before us today, is relatively simple. This is the case – for equal work the same payment. And I find it hard to understand the opposition of the other side or the ideological left that it has such a big problem. It's really hard to understand where such fear is so that we get the same pay for the same job. Where's that equality we've been hearing so much about lately? Why is this equality not being enforced in this area as well? It needs to be very precise. Private schools implementing the public programme have precise criteria for what this curriculum should be and how this is done. Private schools do something exactly the same as public schools by paying less. What's the logic here?Oh, my God! I don't see the logic here. Another very interesting thing, such as Mr. Weber as a longtime mayor, should know that the municipalities are obliged to maintain schools. Teachers are paid by the state, that is the burden and cost of the state; while schools, infrastructure, roof, if you want windows, all these matters are maintained by the congregation. When we have a public school and a private school, when both schools run the same program, we pay all of us taxpayers to maintain this school; on the other hand, those private founders pay for a private school. And in addition to imposing on them the burden of maintaining the facility, this government coalition does not wish to recognise at least this right and equality so that the same work will be paid equally. This is a difficult case to argue with. Here are some ideological prejudices over the fact that these private schools are supposed to develop additional activities along with other orientations. Sometimes, though, you wonder what those children who attend public schools may also have after school, perhaps even in the afternoon class, or as it is called, some extra activities that may even be payable, which are not part of the school program. I have this argument that you want to convince because, for example, there is a cross in a private school, but in another public school it's not that it's the difference that we say – we give you money and you don't. There's no equality here. I would really like to hear your arguments on how to justify this inequality. It's very difficult to justify. At least I don't know her. When we are in the month when equality is strongly advocated, I would like to see it advocated by loud advocates of equality in the case of education.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you. I just want to complement the position presented by the Magi. Tonin, as far as I'm concerned, as a former mayor, I know basic school funding. The current law is very clear about what we have before us as it relates to the amendment of this Article, and private schools do not have the means to invest, investment maintenance and equipment. This is legislation in force, which I have respected as mayor. You also propose the same in this law, which is under consideration today. So it's not about any change. And I talked about the quality of education, and I encouraged you to allow those who are advocates of private education to create better quality programmes, then to provide their own resources, and thus also to encourage parents and children, students and students to join these schools. This is what is now also legal in democracy and also introduced at constitutional level in Slovenia. You can't just take this comparison. No, privacy, the initiative under the Constitution must be encouraged, and I want to encourage it, and I want to give it the opportunity to offer a better programme, providing resources for it. This is only the emphasis that I have had in my implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister with the team; fellow Members and fellow Members! I will try to show private education in Slovenia today, as well as some comparisons of how it is abroad, at least in some typical European countries. In Slovenia, the formal position of private education began to be re-organized with the White Paper on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia, which presented the starting points for re-education in Slovenia in 1996. The general position of private schools has been defined as follows. The State must regulate and enable the establishment of private kindergartens and schools, which is based on international documents. We have actually made this happen, and this situation has to date – nothing has changed significantly, I must stress that. We didn't miss anything here. For more detailed definitions of the regulation of private education, see section Design of the regulation of the situation of private schools and kindergartens. They seem essential to the relationship between the public and private spheres. The public and private sector ratio should be such that private schools enrich public offerings, enable parents to make greater choices, contribute to greater flexibility of the system and complement the public school network; they do not limit or disrupt it. At least where private schools replace the public school system, mechanisms are needed to control the quality of private schools. It is crucial how we will maintain these quality mechanisms in the future. The public school system is open to all, is plural and neutral with regard to individual world views, represents public good and creates a place of common life for citizens. Private schools, however, are available to those who would like to place more emphasis on a specific visual or pedagogical orientation. Here I will somehow show this funding how it is in countries in the European Union; in particular, I would like to show you something about salaries, material costs and investments. If we look at Austria, it's 100 percent of the salary of teachers only. The material costs and costs of investments are not by public funding, this is said by the State. 100 % of funding for investments, material costs and teachers’ salaries is provided by the Netherlands and Sweden alone. Everything else is more or less financed than in Slovenia. In Denmark, for example, we have investment costs – zero, material costs – 80 and 85% and wages – 80.85%. In Finland we have up to 50%, of course in different areas, up to 50% of the investment is paid, 50-100% of the material cost; the same is paid by teachers. In Italy, however, we have up to 50%. Much worse things are paid by the country or by funding than in Slovenia. In Germany, the material costs and investment costs are not mentioned, there are material costs of between 50 and 100 % and teachers' salaries. I'd like a review of the private education system here. In Europe, it shows that practices in other Member States are different. An important factor affecting this is the tradition and historical development of individual educational systems in individual countries. Therefore, we need to be careful when comparing the placement of Slovenian private education with that of other countries. Finally, I would like to point out that the ZOFVI proposal proposed by the SDS does not address open issues; it is only about funding, in particular 85-100 %. If we are already regulating this area of education, we need to regulate it in its entirety, which is why I will not support this proposal of the SDS law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Get Mrs. Maria Bachič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is extremely important from the point of view of the system of education because it highlights the broader social understanding of what kind of education we really want and where those are the foundations of the accessibility of education and the State's obligation to realize them. As there have been some very general statements today, I think I need to shed some light on the history of this problem if I can say that the public will know what we are talking about today. Because of past practices, the situation in this respect is poor. In particular, it is weak in terms of the moderation of funding, which was – we must admit – the interests of certain groups have been established in a way that did not exactly follow the idea of a genuine public interest. At that time, the state was under some pressure, a crossroads, and to be a wolf full and a goat whole, it made some moves that may at first have been viewed as benevolent; but at the same time, they were extremely shortsighted and also harmful. The result we face today and face this call from the National Assembly is as follows. We have 100 per cent in the country, the republics of the public school; we also have private schools with concessions, which are also funded 100 per cent, but we are not talking about these schools today. We are talking today about schools that do not have concessions, but are financed by the country by 85 per cent. And what does it matter? The basic idea of concessions is that when a State is unable to provide activities which are legally binding, it grants a concession to an entity which then executes or exercises it instead. And the point of the current problem is that we still have schools that do not have these concessions; yet they have actually acquired the legal possibility that they are as much as 85% funded by the state, even though they do not have concessions. This means that they are, in fact, private schools which were established solely out of their own interests. In order to make it even clearer — in order for private schools to be able to implement their programme, they need to verify it in a way that they can draw up a programme that is also approved by the expert board; and in this way, they also get the application of the public programme. And since in the past the conditions for the establishment of schools have been extremely flexible and private schools, for example, have minimally upgraded this current programme by enriching it with religious content or with any other content, they have received a green light from the professional world and have thus been able to establish or open up; and they have been based primarily on the need for parents and children to have a choice. I don't have a problem with a private person like that. My child attends a private kindergarten, but the difference is that I pay more for this private kindergarten than someone whose child attends a public kindergarten; and this is the essential difference that is still important if we want to understand the principle of equality, that I am not talking about some common social empathy of an individual or citizen. In this sense, the understanding I have been talking about at the level of primary schools which do not have concessions is very important which do not have concessions, of course, this understanding is not. Nor has this understanding been demonstrated by the Constitutional Court, which has decided that even those schools which do not have concessions must still be financed by the State 100 per cent because they are implementing a publicly valid programme which is intended to be the only interest of citizens, regardless of how these schools came to this status at the beginning of their establishment. And now an important question. What does this decision mean? Does this mean that anyone who has five minutes of time to establish a private school will do so, of course, because he will be financed by the State in one way or another, even though he will not have a concession?Oh, my God! Or maybe this means in the future that we will get inflation of some schools regardless of what their content is; whether it is religious or any other – I personally have no problem with it – or whether it means that inflation of such schools will actually be the principle of a public network of schools. In fact, the bag of money we have at our disposal will have to be distributed in the same way – to those schools that are public and to those schools that are already private have a concession, as well as to those schools that we are talking about today, which do not have these concessions, but will still have to be financed 100 percent. The fact is that the whole of Europe is in fact faced with the issue of choices, access, quality of education; but I think that this debate should also go in the direction of how it is to get the programmes themselves, what it is to see how it is to finance what is going on with tuition. The OECD study, referred to on the right side several times in its discussions, if I may say so, found that we do not even have private schools in the Republic of Slovenia, because mostly private schools are financed by public money. They are largely financed by public money and therefore the OECD study also spoke about the fact that we do not actually have a private education as such. We just don't have it. I am surprised, however, that even from the types of SDS, as well as from the species of New Slovenia, they say that this difference should not be or that it is not and that we must respect the decision of the Constitutional Court; thus I do not have any problem. However, I am extremely disturbed by the fact that they are constantly repeating how wasteful the public sector is and just how devastating public spending is. And that is the fact that you have silenced, Mr Tonin, which is very important. I think I must also respond to Mr Horvat, who spoke about the competitiveness of nature as a basis of competitiveness. It must be acknowledged that as a civilization, we have moved away from some Darwinian rules that spoke of competitiveness, where it has to win stronger over the weaker one, and therefore we have a society that we have, which has invented antibiotics, extended life. In this sense, I am very pleased that we have finally moved away from this natural competitiveness, which the NSI Group so much likes to sing. To conclude, since the Ministry has already mentioned in its opening statement that it is preparing its own marriage solutions, I would like to point out that, in this sense, I also expect guards who will be much more restrictive under the conditions when an individual can open his school and which quality criteria must be met that such a school is suitable for all children. I also say this in this sense, as I have said in my debate, concerning schools which do not have concessions, because in some sense there is no need for them to have them. And what I have already said must also apply to those private schools that already exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin was misunderstood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u126	My colleague Tabaković misunderstood me; especially in the work when we talk about three different schools. You have public schools, you have private schools with concessions and you have private schools that run public programs. And this public programme was confirmed by the state. Therefore, the State has given its consent to these private schools so that this public programme can be implemented. And it is truly illogical to understand that for the same work you want a different payment. That's illogical, and you have to admit it, and this isn't about equality. Because if the country were to assess that these private schools are carrying out some strange religious program to teach some Sharia law or some other religious law, then the state could say - you know what, and we don't recognize this program of yours and we don't admit that you are implementing a public program. Here the state has the best security guard to say - private school, which we do not admit. And when the state says so, then this program is not funded at a 100% starting point. Now, as for competitiveness or public sector costs, as you said. This will reduce the costs of the public sector, and I will tell you why. It would be very good, but I do not want to teach anyone that all Members would have any mandate as a congregation counselor before that, for then they would know what the burdens of the congregations are and what the congregation must take care of. For example, we now had to give in Kamnik a school, Tom Brejc's elementary school, EUR 9 million. If we had a private school in Kamnik, this would not be the cost of the congregation, and the 9 million - euro congregation could spend exactly what it wants. And that's exactly the point where I'm saying that the cost of the country is going down. The State transfers the financing of infrastructure to someone else and we only pay for the programme implemented on behalf of the State, i.e. the public programme. Mr Tabakovic, I hope that we understand here that you have understood me correctly, I understand you have distinguished three different aspects of the school; but that we both agree and that we have understood and that you also understood that these private schools are also implementing a public programme without a concession. And this program, you probably agree, they didn't invent themselves, but this program was confirmed by the state. And here I think that the decision of the Constitutional Court is more than correct, if the state pays so much for some content in this school, then it has to pay for the same content in another school. However, these private schools may also have some superstandard services, but all of this is paid extra. And even the comparison you gave to kindergarten wasn't the most correct, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u127	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u128	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u129	The replica is three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u130	Is it finished?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u132	Good. Do you mind if I finish this?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u133	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Just public kindergartens and private kindergartens. It's a lot of private kindergartens because it's easy for a community to build so many public kindergartens and there's pressure like that, but these public kindergartens are running their own programs. Because if the congregation granted them a program, then the congregation would grant a concession. Here we have a colleague of Möderndorfer, who was a member of the department, who can explain how the municipality can grant a concession or concession to a kindergarten and implement this public programme. And that's what this kindergarten's gonna pay for, just like these schools will. I think you have some ideological reservations here that are irrelevant. It's just because it's a church [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u136	Roman Catholic, the founder of a school — and that is the problem. [[…]] I will conclude, Vice President, thank you very much for leaving me, thank you all. I hope that we have now cleared up the debate more clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u137	Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much, chairman. I would only give a technical explanation and a definition of three segments because I see that the discussion is going in different directions that we are actually carrying out in primary schools in Slovenia. The first segment, which is the most extensive, concerns public programmes, public schools. This is in accordance with Article 15 and with the approval of the Minister, in accordance with the opinion of the Expert Council, that these are public programmes which are also usually the most widespread. This is the majority part of Slovenia. The other two segments may also be devoted to private work, namely programmes that have gained public validity. So they do not basically have public authority, but they have acquired it; and this is a private segment, of course again in line with the expert opinion or opinion of the professional council. And the third part is concessions where the State finds that it does not have an operator who can ensure the implementation of these programmes. We are discussing these three segments today because of the confusion of concepts, so forgive; only for a concrete clarification. [[advertising from the hall]] It's okay, it's flying all over you, not specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There is a lot of talk that private schools are due to small but still very generous funding in a poorer position than public schools. As we have heard today that there is no difference between public and private education, let me tell you a little bit about these differences in my debate. The Education and Education Financing Act and the Law on Primary Schools of Private and Public Schools vary according to the scope of the services they provide. The private school is obliged to carry out subjects according to the subject: Slovenian, Hungarian, Italian, of course in internationally mixed fields, mathematics, first foreign anger, history, homeland and civil culture and ethics, sport, at least one social subject and at least one subject in the field of art. In private schools, it is not necessary for all subjects to be represented as in public school. I wonder how they will carry out the national knowledge check if they do not teach the subject set by the Ministry individually for this programme each year, unless these students listen to this subject. I believe that all students in private school do not have equal opportunities and equal access to knowledge. The programme, implemented by private schools in accordance with specific pedagogical principles, can be designed in such a way as to provide only minimum knowledge; thus, knowledge requirements are much smaller. Here again I wonder if students in a private school will receive the appropriate knowledge they will need for further education. Although private schools provide a teacher with special education for children with special needs, the question is how is the differentiation of teaching for students with learning problems implemented. These students often need an individual approach and adapted forms and methods of work in the verification and evaluation of knowledge and taking into account all learning adjustments resulting from the decision on the orientation of children with special needs. The difference is that public schools register each child regardless of his or her status, according to his or her abilities. Thus, students in public schools, in association with different students, learn socialization, which is of great importance for the personal development of each child. Private schools, however, choose students by themselves, according to the criteria they set themselves. The difference between public and private schools is also that private schools are not required to set educational periods, i.e. triads as provided for in Article 33 of the Basic School Act. Nor are the compulsory school calendars and thus determine the days of school attendance and the days off. They also do not require the formation of classes, departments and study groups. Nor does private school need to take into account the simultaneous presence of a first-class educator and teacher. During the first period, teachers teach the class, during the third period of the course. It shall not be subject to criteria or legal educational conditions in the extended stay and morning protection departments. Therefore, in private schools there is no need to ensure an equally high standard of education. On the basis of the above, it is apparent that the legal provisions applicable to private schools deviate substantially from those applicable to public schools. The functioning of private schools is significantly more flexible and cheaper. Such a distinction is therefore justified by the difference in the level of funding. However, in the event of a levelling of funding, these provisions in relation to public schools are highly unfair and clearly favour private schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you. Perhaps you'd like to respond to the predecessor and perhaps ask the Ministry's representatives whether that's true. First; differences are and that is exactly what we want to end. We want to close the gap between the financing of private school programmes. Now I was a little disturbed by the fact that the predecessor said that, although we have public programmes in place, if I understood correctly, I hope that I will not have to apologize that private schools do not have to carry out compulsory subjects of these publicly valid programmes. Well, I'm curious, but that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Dr. Andrea Barla Lakota, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I must explain that, according to the Basic School Act, we are talking about primary schools, it clearly states which subjects and what content should also include a private school programme. Once again, I stress that private school programmes are programmes that have gained public validity. So private school programmes are designed by private schools as a proposaler. It's not the same subject, it doesn't have to be the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm not going to discuss so much about what you've been telling and looking for arguments and who knows more about what kind of schools we know. The issues were interesting and good, and I welcome them. I'm going to talk first of all about the other part, why today, for God's sake, we have this law in the National Assembly. And we had this law in this national assembly once before. I thought the government would do something about it, what a step it would take to make a difference. No, it's been 1 year and we have the exact same stuff on the table, that's the problem. Regardless of the fact that this law will not be adopted today. Who's responsible for keeping things from moving?Oh, my God! First, as of January 2016, we must have the matter settled, we will not have it. The minister herself admits and admits that she has time constraints and that this will somehow be arranged the second year, when it will be a good time for me not to define the time. But I do have another problem myself. We have the material on the Constitutional Commission to amend the Constitution on this same issue. The President of the Constitutional Commission – I am today asking him to call a commission, for God's sake, and to find out what we are on, whether the matter goes forward or not; and thus to make it easier for the Minister to know which direction to go. Because in my own way, I understand her, because if I were her, I'd get a little tact in my own way. And, of course, it speaks in this spirit that it is necessary to make arrangements in a comprehensive way and so on and everything else, which we know is sometimes harder than just one matter. Because at the end of the day, you can go to a referendum when you've got the whole stuff sorted out, and at the end of the day, 90% of the good things you want to do in the marriage will fall. I don't know. Now what matters to me. Just because the Constitutional Court decides doesn't mean there's something to be saved. You've been telling yourself in the SDS that it's not just the sky over the Constitutional Court, but there's something else. In 1989 too, the Constitutional Court found that the proportional system in our country was illegal, unconstitutional and needed to be transformed into a majority system. And that's when we changed the constitution. And today, in 2015, we still have a proportional system; and that's why everything is okay. Therefore, do not think that now that the Constitutional Court has said something – I do not agree with this decision and say it very clearly and out loud – it is important to consider why this should be regulated by law, but if we can constitutionally regulate this matter. And let's find out that this is a public interest. Publicly good is knowledge in the Slovenian space, that is what I am talking about. And if we don't know that, then we'll have this discussion. To conclude, proposers. As long as we have private primary schools that fit the Slovenian space, we are satisfied. Now I'm going to do something on purpose because I don't like this discussion. The first time we get a private Muslim primary school, I wonder if you'll still be up for it. And for the first time, of course, the state will then say - yes, if there is such a kuriculum, why not. But usually these schools always have the same standard as one school above the standard; and here we're going to have a problem. And since we're so divulged Slovenians, because we've already shown this by the burks and somewhere else, I'm afraid it's going to be a serious problem. The Constitution needs to be regulated because this is such an important issue that it deserves to be constitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you. Let me answer that. ZOFVI is a prerequisite for the establishment of private schools, which we probably know. The procedure is long-term, at least that is what I was informed, but it needs the approval of the Education Council, which is what the Government calls. And we are essentially Members, we want or we don't want to depend on the professional council and the government. And if there will ever be an initiative, I will not say about it then; but, yes, if there will be any school, Islamic or any other, religious or political, because of me, the United Left can, given that it has such a radical position, establish its own private school and have images of Che Guevare and all their other idols on the walls if they meet the conditions if the professional world gives the hook if the government gives the hook; why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Mrs. Irena Kotnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I will say what we have heard several times today that the Constitutional Court has issued a decision imposing on the National Assembly that the contraryness of Article 86(2) of the Constitution, which provides for the financing of primary schools implementing publicly applicable programmes, must be abolished within one year, which is until January 2016. Next, which is important, I will point out that there is an open initiative in the National Assembly to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of primary education being compulsory and financed by public funds. The process is taking place on the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly and we are now so far away that we have established a special expert committee of eminent legal experts in Slovenia. This Commission is to prepare its views on the amendment of this Article. The decision on the decision of the Constitutional Court is of a technical nature and it is possible to implement it relatively quickly, but I believe that primary education is such an important area that it is not necessary to change it quickly, so I believe that there is a need for a thorough reflection on how and what is needed in primary education. In principle, I believe that our primary education is well organised, that it does its work very well and that the programmes are being implemented, so there is no need to establish private schools. However, if private schools are being set up, someone has already explained how this is happening, how this is happening; then, of course, it is not possible for the state to be responsible for financing these programmes, because it is a private initiative. I would like to draw attention to the opinion of my colleague Lisco, who said today that the decisions of the courts should be respected. Of course, I very much agree with you, Mr Lisec, but here I must draw attention to some other things that are happening in our court and that you sometimes do not know why such derogations are taking place, such different interpretations and opinions, as well as judicial decisions. And sometimes I wonder what happens to a judge who, one day, decides the same thing later, decides the same thing differently. And here I will now focus on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first case that took place, the Constitutional Court intervened in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly because the Constitutional Court set up a congregation years ago. Excuse me, this is the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court simply usurped this jurisdiction and decided to establish a congregation. We in the National Assembly, the Members were silent, no one said anything, and that's how it stayed. Why we've been quiet, I can only say it myself, and the others will answer each other. And the second decision of the Constitutional Court is this decision, which I mentioned in the introduction, that it issued in January this year a decision to harmonise or supplement Article 86 of the Constitution in relation to education. The Constitutional Court has decided that the anti-constitutional financing of public schools must be abolished, as I have already said, by January 2016. I suggest we look back a little bit. The previous decisions of the Constitutional Court on this matter went in a completely different direction than that of the latter. And I'll tell you how it happened. In 2001, the Constitutional Court stated that the legislator’s decision to finance the state in its entirety is only public schools in which all parents can enter their children in the field of their assessment; and therefore it is not inconsistent with the Constitution. That's what 2001 decided. This time, however, the Constitutional Judges turned the board upside down and, indeed, the abstract constitutional provision was very broad-based and therefore concluded that children have the right to attend the compulsory public school curriculum free of charge, regardless of whether they are carried out by a public legal or private entity. The question is how the Constitutional Judges decide where the analysis of the older decisions of the Constitutional Court was in this particular case and whether the Constitutional Judges served the context of the whole creation, read the drafting of the text or the specific provision of the Constitution. "The writers of the Slovenian Constitution also discussed whether it should be written down that primary education is free of charge. The final decision was not to write it down." I quote Dr. Frances Butcher. Buy textbooks, notebooks and supplies and so on. I will also draw attention to the separate opinion of the Constitutional Judge, Dr. Etelka Korpič Horvat, who wrote: "To what extent the state will finance primary education is its sovereign right". Desus is always trying to maintain public education. In doing so, we will insist in the Group of Members, because only through public service can the State guarantee equal rights to all and under equal conditions. To conclude, I would also like to comment on Mr Horvath, who proposed how to build educational facilities. Here I would like to say my opinion that I believe that we have the primary schools built, that the country is only obliged to maintain this infrastructure for the implementation of basic education and that the implementation of the programmes through the budget must be ensured; this is said to be publicly applicable programmes in public schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be very brief. Not a minute. On account of the record, it seems correct and right because I said that the Constitutional Court had said 1989; it is not true that the Constitutional Court had not yet met at all since we had the Socialist Republic of Slovenia; it was in 1998. I switched numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President. I hate to debate with lawyers, but I don't even want to teach them because I have problems teaching a lawyer at home. I'm married to one, and the other one's my brother. But apparently Mrs Kotnik Popotat was not in the hall when I wanted to clarify a few things in the first part as a proposal. First of all, we have the Constitution. Secondly, we have initiatives to change the Constitution. I think as long as we have the Constitution, we have to follow it. Mrs Kotnik Popotat would already like to follow the constitutional change initiative if I do not support it, because there is likely to be a change to the Constitution. Then we don't have to accept any more, let alone change the laws. We'd better get everyone into the Constitution and that's it. As far as possible, the Constitution should be as simple as possible so that we do not complicate our lives as legislative branches of power, nor the executive branch of power, and at least to citizens and citizens. I agree that the laws should not change quickly, but in January 2015 it was said by the Ministry – we will prepare changes that will go in the direction of the Constitutional Court's decision. And what happened after one year? It is very similar to the minutes of the coalition Members, and unfortunately also the representatives or representatives of the Ministry. Once again, I hope that Mrs Kotnik Poropat is betrothed when she said that the state cannot be responsible for financing private schools. However, we have a proposal for a law and we have a decision by the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court says exactly that we need to equalise funding for programs in primary schools. And here's where I'm referring to the next thing. That decision of the Constitutional Court of 2001 had already come out again. Before, my friend Horvath, I think he said the devil is in detail. Yes, at the time it was said that the legislator could determine the extent to which public schools would be financed. However, the decision of December 2014 discusses the financing of primary school programmes. The decision does not refer to financing investments, investments, equipment and so on; it refers to programmes. And don't say anything about kindergartens, not about high schools, not universities, but about primary education. And once again, my respects, especially the legal part of this National Assembly, as long as we have the Constitution, I hope to follow it; but not after what would have happened if we had changed the Constitution. I have already said that the easiest thing to do is to write in Article 1 of the Constitution – Slovenia are fools and it will be the easiest to change and we can all work free after Prešeren. And when you say yes, we have the decisions of the Constitutional Court, before Verveg's colleague said nicely – an unfulfilled decision, we will save her. I couldn't agree more. But one year's time will pass, and instead of closing one decision by the Constitutional Court, making a hook, we will have another decision by the Constitutional Court. Not only the electoral system that Jani spoke about before; we have many more. Even in the SDS Group, we sometimes have a problem with the implementation of a decision of the Constitutional Court. But, Your Honor, in this government and in the government coalition there is no New Slovenia, not SDS, nor colleague Jani Möderndorfer. In this coalition we have, as always, Desus since 1996. And Desus always says how everyone else is changing their mind; and I will tell you what you did yesterday, honourable Members of Desus. October 2013 – Smoking, free market; the most zealous advocates of SD and Desus. Two years later – we extend concession contracts. The Constitutional Judges amend the decisions and specify completely different decisions of the Constitutional Court which do not refer to the same matter. But in the area of chimneys, one day ago, look at the fragment, Desus for the free market, to extend concessions. And I have already said that it is likely that the Members of Desus will be those who, at once on 16 December 2016, propose a state-owned smoker company to change their minds for the third time, because they are in power, they are always in power. Dear Members of the House of Desus, not to tell others what you do not. We have always advocated in the SDS Group that it must be private; and we have not said anywhere that it must destroy privately not publicly in the field of education, not in the field of social, health, property, I do not know what. But we say it must be, and according to the initiative in this law we say it must be exactly as the Constitutional Court has decided. The Constitutional Court and not the five Judges of the Constitutional Court decided. For the third time today, it has been said that we have a separate opinion. As I said before, this would be the same as if colleagues from Nova Slovenije said, no, but we are for such a law; and we would enforce them. Most people make decisions and five out of nine is what?Oh, my God! Most of the time, I still hope that math from the second grade didn't betray me. I believe that there is a separate opinion; probably each of us has a separate opinion, including a law in which he sometimes presses "for" with a heavy heart; although the head works "against, against, against". But it's the decision we make. And most of them are the ones who make the decision. Like sometimes I have problems when they say the National Assembly has accepted. No, the government coalition has accepted it. Each one is responsible for his own voice, as is the case with the Constitutional Judges. Their majority opinion is as it is in our proposal for a law. Therefore, any reference to the 2001 constitutional decision, which is different, since this 2014 decision summarizes only a fraction of it, and I will not repeat it again for hundreds of years, funding programmes in primary schools, and you say - oh, since the decisions of the Constitutional Court are the same. They're not! I hope that, on the proposal of the Minister, whom we still trust in the SDS Group, we hope to receive this law as soon as possible. And not that we get it in December 2016, because I hope we all know that the school year starts with 1. 9. That we do not resolve the matter in September, which means that we will extend the existing non-constitutional matter for one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, it is procedural to warn Mr Lisco as a proposaler that we are now talking about the Basic Education Act. We're not talking about chimneys, and nothing like that, and please. We're here today as Members of Parliament. I am not now as I do not know what kind of lawyer, but I have said the things that are in progress in the National Assembly, here I am referring to the procedure for amending Article 57 of the Constitution, which takes place on the Constitutional Commission. That's a fact, and there's no preconceived matter of what happens if it does or doesn't. The procedure is open, I said that the appointed expert commission is what will happen – whether there will be a change, whether it will be proposed or not, or whether we will find that the current text is the best, I do not know. But it's not fair that I'm here on this kind of thing, if you think I'm pre-conceiving something. I warned you, I'm just saying. Let me finish; let's leave the chimneys for next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Levicar ready. Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to present my position, or view, to my colleague Tonin, who spoke about the delimitation of public and private, from the point of view of ideological inequality. I see this division between the public and private as the right of parents and children to choose education and private education as a means of enriching and complementing the public school system, through additional selection, content enrichment, diversity and programme additions. With regard to the distinction between public and private, this question is not only asked by us, but is also asked by European countries, where we are all looking for answers on how to find the best ways and interpretations of public and private education. In doing so, I think that the issue of public education is first of all good and how to set the framework for the choice, fairness, accessibility and quality of young people's education. I would like to answer my colleague Lisco's question when he asked him if he wanted to know where our Members are involved in schools and kindergartens. I can tell myself that I had a daughter involved in public kindergarten, as well as grandchildren. And I would like to say here that I am an opinion, I come from pedagogical waters, that we have quality education, that this should be in kindergarten, that it should also be in primary school, and also beyond, which is also shown by the fact that very many young people are successful and are very professional. I'm just sorry that a lot of young people go from us to other countries. I think this is an area that we're going to have to touch and talk about. I don't see a problem with funding because we have two Catholic schools and one school based on the principles of montessori pedagogy, which would amount to €300,000 per year. I don't see any problems here, but I'm being asked questions for the future. What happens if there's more of these private schools? That's one thing. The second thing is, I'm seeing social change and the processes that are now taking place. This is now reflected in an increased interest in regulating this area. The second question I am asked is to take into account the tradition and development of individual school systems. I think that in these frameworks we will certainly have some further discussions to discuss, because we see that some European countries already have some problems, as far as this is concerned. This is Sweden and, say, Austria, which has already banned one of the private schools. I still have some questions about the adoption of programmes, the verification of private school programmes. How will these programmes be designed to take into account knowledge, quality, skills, competences? I am asked the question of fulfilling and ensuring the quality of education. I believe that all children should be included in public or private schools and schools, have the right to quality education, to quality education. I am asked how it is to sign up, because we know that public education and education providers acquire or provide minimum knowledge to enable the completion of education successfully; and it has been recognised by the relevant international school association. What will happen to those private schools that will not be included in international associations, and it will also be difficult to place an opinion or quality assessment somewhere. Then the provision of personnel and material conditions, where I am asked questions about tuition, teachers' salaries, or the school can implement a program for all years of education. As I know, the Ministry is already preparing a new ZOFVI, which will fully regulate the private education sector in terms of financing and regulation of the status of private schools. I'm sure we'll talk about these things at the committees and probably here, in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting to the Minister with both colleagues and you, colleagues and colleagues! I do not think I will say anything new if I also express my opinion that Slovenian public education is good and quality and that the network of primary schools is very good, so that all children have the opportunity to attend primary school in their local area as soon as possible. However, I note that this is also the case in the public eye that there is not enough money for this public education; we would need more to make it even more quality. This is provided by teachers when they want higher wages, better programs and so on. In this regard, I ask myself the following question: in 2013, the country earmarked 2.8 million euros to finance private schools. Only three private schools are, as can be seen from the materials we have, I have not specifically explored how many private primary schools we really have. And if we wanted to fund these private schools 100%, we would need an additional 290,000 euros. Where would they take them? I don't see any other source than being taken from public school. We can't take public education either, because we know we need more money for public education, so I think that the current mode of funding is just fine and that we stay as we are, and that we are rationally spending the resources that the state has for these purposes and for all other purposes. However, I must also point out that I certainly agree with the need to harmonise that account must be taken of what the Constitutional Court has said, so I also supported the initiative taken to amend Article 57 of the Constitution in this direction, as some of you have already said, that the State is contributing funds to the financing of public school institutions. However, I would really like to know if any explanation in this regard has been given for so long, almost a good year, because by the end of this year this should have been harmonised where this initiative, which we have given to the left-hand parties, has been stuck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today it seemed to me that, on the part of Mr Tonin or on my left side, there was some sort of implicit or even explicit impression that it was all about some sort of ideological problem or problem that everyone who opposed the proposal of this law would have. It was implicit to feel that somehow they were reading some communist relic to anyone who did not think as suggested in this law. I would like to point out that the idea that the school system is based on public education is an idea of enlightened absolution from the 18th century. It was based on the Habsburgs with the Teresian reforms and was further strengthened later in the 19th century. This idea isn't something that would be from these semi-existing totalitarian times. It is simply a simple fact that it is a public good that must be most accessible to all citizens, because it is also beneficial for all society, and it is good for the general public. In this context, it is also an understanding of this position that the Government has, otherwise only a decision of the Constitutional Court should be respected, but this is not the biggest problem that we have in the relationship between the public school system and private schools. As has been said many times today, private schools are welcome as an enrichment of the public school system or as a possibility of free choice for parents. However, – and here we do need to be stressed – everywhere when there are truly added value and truly enrichment. However, if we have, as we have today, problems with private schools taking the state programme, they adjust it slightly, then report it; then it is probably not enrichment. Then there is a real danger that there will be ordinary earnings, including at the expense of the school system, that schools will be set up on an unwarranted basis. This programme did not differ significantly from what they have in public schools, and it must be stressed, however, that we are moving away from this principle that private education must mean some added value, some enrichment of something that the public school system is already offering. And in this sense, it is justified that the law is systematically prepared to be drafted by the government. This is probably also a welcome development, as said by colleague Möderndorfer, that this constitutional initiative will also lead to final recovery and a solution, which will also make it easier for lawmakers to work. And in this context, it is not against the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is about that this matter must be dealt with in an integrated manner and systematically so that we do not have the opposite effect when it comes to some further perspective from the erosion of public education because we will only blindly follow certain decisions of the Constitutional Court at technical level; the content and dimension of the whole problem that actually exists between private and public education would be lost out of sight. In this respect, I would like to wish Mrs Minister and her team at the Ministry of Education as much success as possible and to come up with a comprehensive bill in due course to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The applicant stated in the introduction that the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2014 was clear and short. It's clear and it's short. It is based on the decision of five Constitutional Judges of nine Constitutional Judges. It's short, but it's clear to me that it's not. The proposal was adopted and the Constitutional Court said that the National Assembly should amend the law by January 2016. Of course it didn't. It should be noted that the Constitutional Court has also discussed the private education issue many times in the past and has also decided in 2001. It stated that the legislator's decision to finance only public schools in which all parents in the field of his assessment can enter children is not contrary to the Constitution. This decision was agreed upon by the nine Constitutional Judges. In one of the positions, it was even mentioned that the coalition of the Constitution is a "Spanish village", I quote. We cannot say this because, if we were to comply with and implement the 2001 constitutional decision, our system was correct. I must say that I expect that in the coming year this constitutional law will also be constitutionally amended and that public education will be defined in the Constitution as necessary. The withdrawal from the legal opinion was also determined by five judges, but they forgot to look at this decision in 2001. In this Constitutional Decision it is important to define that in areas where the functioning of religious communities interferes with the jurisdiction of the State, freedom of action of religious communities as an integral part of the principle of State and religious separation is limited by the sovereignty of the State. It does not prevent religious communities from carrying out activities in various areas of social life; it is also called educational, social, health and economic activities. Due to the principle of sovereignty, it is essential that the State lays down the limits to which the performance of tasks under national jurisdiction may be left to the private sphere and under what conditions. I don't have a problem with private education. In any case, private schools are the enrichment of the program, but if I choose to go to a private school as a parent, I am aware that I will also have to pay extra for this upgrade. Allow me to conclude by adding that the Constitutional Court has also adopted the view that the State is not obliged to support and generalise the functioning of religious communities, and added that the principle of State and religious separation does not mean the exclusion of any support and assistance, of course, provided that equality of all religious communities is ensured. When we talk about the implementation of the specific decision of the five judges of the Constitutional Court that the same budgetary resources should be allocated to private education as to the public, given the lack of explanation and direct opposition to past decisions, it is not possible to hide the dogma on the legal error of the five judges of the Constitutional Court; in particular when we know that the decision is directly contrary to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Let me finish here. I believe that in the coming year, we will receive a law that will be appropriate by the Ministry and that we will also regulate the financing of private and public education constitutionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I'm really sorry that some people write speeches about the day before, and then they have problems. How is the decision of the Constitutional Court not clear?Oh, my God! "The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is incompatible with the Constitution. The National Assembly must abolish the constitutionality established within one year." It's not clear. How is it not clear?Oh, my God! Then it is a shame that we adopt laws if such a decision of the Constitutional Court is not clear to us. Second, five judges. Once again, first-class mathematics, now probably already in kindergarten, 5 is the majority of 9, 46 is the majority of 90. I'm always confused when they say, "The MPs have accepted," but sometimes I think it's some stupid law, but it's adopted. Even if one were for and all the others were abstaining, the law would be passed; most decisions are made. And here today is the problem of five constitutional judges, who are the majority; the second is 46 votes, of course, when it comes to you as members of the coalition. And once again, not to throw into the same box of decisions of the Constitutional Court just because they all touch on the fields of education. The 2001 decision states that the legislator may regulate the private education sector by law. However, the December 2013 decision, as stated in the first sentence of the second paragraph, equates the financing of primary education programmes. And primary education is still compulsory, and I hope it stays that way. Although I'm a little worried about the constitutional changes that you're about to break the Constitution, then you change the Constitution and make bypasses, just so you don't have to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. These are the legal proposals where you work circuits to make the country your own way. It's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. I saved my debate for the conclusion of this point because I hoped that I would take note of such and different arguments and then respond to these arguments and try to contradict them. But, unfortunately, there were such arguments about fighting a little in this debate. We have heard the continuation of the ideological "kryga" why private education is oh and in general. And we have heard stubbornness and insistence in the Constitutional Court's decision, without advocates of today's changes asking for some social context. For the introduction of my intervention, let me say that in the United Left we advocate public, quality, accessible education for all at all vertical levels; not only in the field of basic education. And if there must already be a private education, then this private education should be completely financed from some of its own resources; not parasites on public funds, even the same little one, from which our public education is also sung. Personally, however, I must say that I consider education and the whole school subsystem to be of such importance to society that it is essential to have democratic control over it, that this school is subject to democratic control, that it is universal. Some market interests, private interests, God do not give yet the ideological interests of individuals in our education have nothing to look for. Therefore, to private education, not only do I deny him public funds, but I also deny him the right to exist. The education we need in this country must be of quality, must be universal, accessible to all and must be public, in full. Some partial, profitable motives or ideological, religious, whatever motives already have no place in such educational acquisitions as the school system. Now if I go on to individual sections concerning the Constitutional Court's decision, because I don't know if I'd say famous, would I say notorious decisions by the Constitutional Court, which we've been chasing for hours now. As early as 2001, the Constitutional Court decided that the question of private or public education was in the discretion of the legislator; and it was only this year that 15 years later that it decided that I did not know why it was not good; and it turned its decision 180 degrees and imposed itself on it to decide on it. The reasons for the Constitutional Court in this case were weak, very weak, which is clear from a separate opinion from one of the Constitutional Judges, which states that the right to free primary education would only be violated if children could not be included in one of the schools in the public primary school network. It is said that only then can we talk about the violation of the right to access to the educational system and that this is by no means an application of the grave, superficial to the division of public and private education. In general, this division was adopted by 4 votes to 5. We know that the Constitutional Court in such a relationship has already taken quite a few decisions that have clearly, clearly privileged and given priority to the public in private and have taken a firm stand on the right hand side. I am talking about the referendum in the case of the Law on Marriage, the prohibition of the referendum of the Defence Act and so on, because these cases are quite something. And if the Constitutional Court has already announced that a hundred percent of the public funding of the programmes in force under private primary education is ordered by the Constitution, then the only rational, enlightened response is that it is time for us to change the Constitution. I think this is the most elegant solution to the mystery ahead of us; I also think it is the most appropriate, the most durable and the most durable. We know that constitutional judges still have a limited mandate, that when appointing constitutional judges, politics also has a very strong hand, and it is easier to cement the right to public education in our Constitution than to cut these five yellow ties of the Constitutional Court. As far as the relationship between public and private education is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, the position of the Socialists in this dilemma is clear; or I do not understand it as a dilemma. We view education first and foremost as a right, an unconditional right. Education includes and incorporates the intellectual achievements of all mankind and it is only appropriate that these intellectual achievements be the property of all. At the same time, it must be equally and equally possible for all to acquire, acquire and noble these intellectual achievements through quality public education. And this is not only about the primary level, but it is about the principles that must apply to all levels of education. Education must be universally accessible. The only way to ensure this universal accessibility is if this education is, for the first time, publicly funded and, for the second time, implemented through public institutions. If we give up this dimension of universality, then our education immediately distorts such and different inequalities – ideological, cultural, classy and so on. Such inequalities, however, go hand in hand with the essential meaning of education, including emancipation and the promotion of social equality, or, rather, the expression will be given to anyone who prefers it, a society of equal opportunity. And of course, education, if we overlook this principled attitude, is part of some social, economic system, and in this context it also produces certain effects and plays a specific role. We can talk about two roles here. First of all, we can talk about social mobility, and I've already leaned on it to ensure social equality. This is something extremely important for social cohesion and also for individuals from a more deprived environment. The instrument to enable these people to emancipate themselves to pursue some happiness in their lives is a key instrument of public, universal education. The second is the question of the economy or economic life of a nation, as well as the development and impact on the development orientation of a country with public education. Here, however, we — quite frankly — are in a very bad situation at this time. Why? If we want our economy to consist of closed production chains that generate added value, and this added value remains at home, here in Slovenia, moving forward development; then we need education, which is relatively independent of an economy that is not based on competence, which is not based on usability for the labour market, which is not subordinated to the economy or the interests of individual capital. Only such education is education that produces basic knowledge, which is independent, which can offer some developmental breakthrough. The trends in our education, at least for the last 15 years, are going in the opposite direction. Education is subordinated to the smooth benefits of individual capital, subordinated to some application logic, subordinated to some competency logic. This may serve our economy for an extremely short period of time, since it ensures the competitiveness of individual companies and products that are short-lived; it cannot produce any breakthrough, development vision and some breakthrough basic knowledge. And if we really want to put this country and the economy on its feet, then we need to turn our school ship around 180 degrees and eliminate all these negative trends, effects and interventions that have taken place in the last 15 years, including, or in the first place, Bologna reform, and in the second place with austerity cuts. Savings in education, especially in higher education, must be stopped immediately. What does private education actually bring to the elementary school level? A member of the staff has a particular interest in why he would go into this school activity in the first place. I think it's very illusory and inaccurate to expect that private people are some good uncles who want to teach children better quality. Of course that's not true. Nevertheless, we are talking here about investment in youth, which is extremely important for the development of this youth. It is very illusory to expect some of the good uncles who are doing everything together for the best; this is simply not the case with all the millions who are in our education. The official has his own, some special, certain world view. It was only a good 200 years ago that education broke out of the hands of religious communities as part of enlightenment, but unfortunately today it is not as self-evident as it should be. For this reason, socialists, I hope that anyone else in this National Assembly, such privatisation of education, is against us and we stand on the sidelines of public, enlightened, universal education. A private school can choose its students, and on this basis it can also discriminate in more subtle forms on the basis of ethnicity or some handicap in order to avoid some pupils who face the greatest difficulties in the learning process. And this is a very dangerous trend in stratification, which can be easily achieved by private education. And the only way to avoid this is to provide quality public education, not to parasiate privately on his finances. Come in. Full-funded private schools can only achieve higher standard education through a small contribution, leading to the long-term domination of private education over public education. Eventually, after such a trend, we get some good education, which is to a large extent self-paid and serviced by elites, ruling classes in a society and in a country; then for everyone else, but for heaven, of course, you have some education that is not worth the pecan nut, that is public education, unfortunately for better education you have no money. Then some class division of society is more or less cemented, which is certainly not some illuminating objective that education should pursue. The preservation and development of a publicly funded primary school system are a social foundation and we cannot in any way allow neoliberal offensives to the educational system to undermine the level of basic education and to start the production and reproduction of forms of social equality in children. Similarly, differences in performance in education are largely conditioned by class and layeredness. Of course, someone comes into an educational system with such cultural capital, someone comes into an educational system with different cultural capital, and the economic power of the environment from which a child comes is also negligible. And private education can very quickly privilege the rich against the poor. However, the objective of public education goes in the opposite direction. Public education aligns these background conditions from which students come; and at least try – although in our case this is not enough in Slovenia right now – to equalise certain rights and opportunities for success. To conclude, primary education and other levels of education must aim to make them accessible to all, not to discriminate against certain social groups in terms of property, ethnicity, national ownership or any other social division, that they are ideologically not only neutral, but that they are susceptible to civil and social progress and that they are incorporated into their curricula and serve in a broader sense for the emancipation of humanity; not to service individual capital. And such education can only be public, such education can only be provided by the state. And such a principle should be introduced and written into the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In this debate it is sometimes important to ask ourselves what makes sense and what makes sense. And it is reasonable and logical, through the prism of ensuring accessibility and equality in education, that we have a strong, lax and broad network of public primary education, which is adequately funded and where adequate development of the child as a whole is possible. It makes sense, too, that in the event that this network is not enough for us to have a hole, we grant a concession to someone who, instead of a state, is a private person, is performing a function because the state is not capable. And it is perfectly logical and reasonable that for third groups, i.e. those who simply do not want to be in the public network system, we leave the door open to organise their own education system; but they must verify it as a publicly valid programme if they want to issue a document, a certificate at the end of this education, thus confirming that a person has some knowledge. It is illogical, however, that we finance this third category from the public education network. Why? Because the same bag divides money into both categories. This means that there will be less of it in the public system, it will be less of a quality system, and it can and must be registered by all; and private people can choose their own children to join the system. At the same time, these children can afford a higher standard of payment, tuition, compensation, whatever the private person defines. This is a derogation, if we look at it in the long run, from the norm that we need to ensure equal accessibility [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government, because the representative of the proposalr has already spent time. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, distinguished debaters! Of course, at the Ministry we listened carefully to all the reactions and reflections. What we have already presented in the introductory address, we will also try to ensure that there will be further reflection and further implementation of everything presented today in a way that is sufficient on the one hand to respect constitutional decisions, or on the other, all the challenges posed by the new societal challenges. Considering also the educational system, ensuring not only all the inclusion, fairness and accessibility of the system, but also the monitoring of uniform quality standards, as well as the fulfilment of the relevant conditions arising from all these changed conditions and situations that have occurred recently. On our part, I can assure you that we are already in the process of preparing this proposal and that we will try to get ahead of you as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to speak to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer, Mr Tomaž Lisec, please apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. They get the word as the last one, namely the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If I continue with the debate I had just concluded. The danger is crucial in that we can have two categories of children in the country over a long period of time. Those who can afford the standard and those who can't afford the standard. Because with the same cookie money for private and public under the same conditions, it simply means that schools in the public network today, when spending on this education increases – and, as you can see, we already have difficulties in adopting budgets, let alone in the future – will no longer be able to guarantee the same standard of education and education for all children at the expense of private funding. This will also happen, even if financial and material conditions are met for children to enter private schools, these third or fourth category schools will have the right to renounce certain groups of children or to form a socialisation environment within their educational system, which will not be the same as that in which children will live. It can be conditioned worldwide, it can be conditioned religiously, it can be conditioned in any other way. But within a group of children who think the same, from the same traditions, can also have the same ethical affiliation, children will not learn either multiculturalism nor learn to resolve disputes with different thinkers; above all, they will adopt standards that do not exist in reality. They will learn to live in an artificially created environment, in a balloon that is then long-ranged when two or more balloons come into contact, says the conflict of civilization. That's what we're trying to avoid. No one here disputes the establishment of private schools, the initiatives – on this side – to establish, build and finance these schools; but not from public funds, even if they have a publicly valid programme. Since a certified public programme means only that they can issue a charter that they are a school so that they can issue a certificate. Nowhere does this mean that the country needs another such programme, to want it and to assess that it can also be properly implemented in an area where it is already being run by a school in the public network. And one of the manipulations, not to say the lie that was told today, is that this proposal represents only the same payment for the same work done. That's not true! This proposal today means that someone who does and is obliged to do the job is taken away from part of the money and given it to someone who wants to do the job differently in other philosophical, ethical substituencies; and there is no need to do so from the point of view of entering or allowing them to attend the primary school programme, because these places can already be filled and completed by an existing public school in the public network. And it's not about equality, it's about dual funding. The duality of funding will have to be guaranteed in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But there we will face the fact that someone will say that we have too little money, that we need to consolidate, we need to limit spending. And we're going to say, what's fair is that we don't reduce education, but we're not going to raise it, for example. What's gonna happen? In the long run, you're gonna hit those who can't afford extras. That's a civilisational impossibility. This is contrary to the constitutional norm, which is also embedded in the principles of the functioning of the public education system. This is equality of opportunity and equality of access to the educational system. A private initiative is also a constitutional category, but nowhere is it assumed that the country is obliged to finance and care for its performance on the market. If we have enough quality learning programs, quality elementary schools in the public network, there is no need for them to create additional competition at the expense of which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Saša Tabakovic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. We have nothing against private property in the modern centre Party Group. Private property is a constitutionally protected category and it is the same; but today's debate requires context and understanding. This context is whether it is right that a private institution has no concession – that is, there is no public interest to exist, but that this private institution is justified solely on the need for the market, if I may say so, some free choice – is financed by 100 % of public funds. This also raises the question if we would accept this, of course, where such a practice would end. We think that this is a problem, because if such an arrangement were to be followed, as the proposer suggests in some way, it would not be in line with the principle of public good. To conclude, I would just say that this debate actually touches on a lot of broader issues. Not only does it touch education, it also touches health care at its final stage and all public services that are in any way linked to public funds. And this is a very important question and a very broad one. I would conclude that in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre we are liberal; because this was a question of whether we are liberal or if we understand this question liberally. Of course, we understand him completely liberally. As liberals, we have also recognized ourselves in the European political space, and we are accepted and understood as such. But it is very important not only to be liberal, of course also to be socially liberal; of course we are not. The fact that we have a liberal understanding of it as anarchic, and this is by no means the case. Therefore, we cannot support the law in the sense that it has been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday 18 in accordance with the meeting's time frame. 12. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
