ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I inform you that Mr Jože Možgan, Member of the National Assembly, died during the period 1996-2000. I beg for a minute of silence in his memory. / minute silence/ Praise him! I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Marija Bačič, Anja Bah Žibert, Violeta Tomić from 12 p.m. on, Ljudmila Novak, Iva Dimic from 15.30 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez to 12 p.m., mag. Alexander Kavčič, Franz Lai, Dusan Radich, Mag. Dusan Verbich, Roberto Battelli, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, mag. Branko Grimes, Branko Zorman by 3 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin from 1:30 a.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. Before moving to the agenda for the meeting, allow me further clarification regarding the Secretary-General's letter regarding the progress of the re-establishment of the conference voting system in the Grand Chamber, which you received on 15. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Due to this revision in the autumn period, the parliamentary hour will not work fully and the usual way of applying for the debate on amendments and sharing the remainder of the time, so all the debaters and other participants in the meeting are asked to understand. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 11 September 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting devices, and the yellow light must be lit. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the above, the Court of Justice of the European Union considers that the Court of Justice of the European Union does not consider that the Court of Justice of the European Union has a legal basis for assessing the infringements of human rights in the years 1959-2014 in respect of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jožet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to complement the explanation of the proposal, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgl's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have proposed a recommendation on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations against the Republic of Slovenia. Why? The latest developments related to the publication of data by the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations show that Slovenia has 148 violations per million inhabitants at the European Summit, in the first place, of human rights violations. The published data have shown supervisoryly the reality of the state of justice in Slovenia in terms of ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. There has been something else, something that we have been pointing out for many years in the Slovenian Democratic Party that a necessary reform of the judicial system is needed. It is necessary to establish accountability in court, to remove circumstances that arouse bias, doubts about the independence of the judiciary and the fairness of judicial proceedings, and to raise the confidence of people or the public in the judiciary or the whole of justice. Here, allow me to draw my initial attention to what he said and already in 2003 to German Judge Norman Doukoff, a consultant in our pre-accession negotiations. In 2003, he found that the judiciary in Slovenia was ineffective or not effective. Before the end of his term of office, he noted at the press conference that there was no real change in the mentality of Slovenian judges. We have been alerting this in the SDS for a very long time, and virtually nothing happens in this area. He estimated that our judges were more concerned with protecting their privileges and payments. However, the situation in this area has not improved since then, and even more so, we claim that it has even deteriorated. It is also attached to this by the European Commission's 2013 document, which in many ways is worrying about our country. The European Commission points out in this document that the financial and economic crisis in Europe has led to radical changes that require changes in the justice system as well. The European Commission sees, in the process of reform and restoring confidence and economic growth, an essential role in Member States' fair, judicial systems and therefore stresses that access to an effective justice system is essential and that at the same time there is a need to ensure an improvement in its quality and independence. We have been dealing with cosmetic corrections to judicial legislation, especially since Mr Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice in this place. but not through reform measures. In March this year, the European Commission also adopted the EU Justice Scoreboard 2014 – all with a view to more efficient judicial systems. The review shows that Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of justice in the EU. It is followed only by Greece, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia, and it is necessary to know that all these countries have an increasing trend in independence compared to the previous year, and Slovenia is unfortunately falling. As I have already said, confidence in the justice system in Slovenia is currently the lowest among the members of the European Union. The effectiveness of justice is significantly lower than the EU average. A number of judges in our country regret to arouse the appearance of bias and doubts about the independence and fairness of court proceedings. Let's just remember Patria for example, but I'm sure more about this later on, in the debates. The Council of Justice does not normally deal with these cases. The third interim report of the study by Prof. Lovr Šturm on human rights violations and fundamental freedoms caused by Slovenian judges and courts in Slovenia shows that 801 members of the Slovenian courts and at least 2 000 254 Slovenian judges have violated human rights and fundamental freedoms since 1995 or, more precisely, since January 1995 and until April 2015. Certainly alarming data, but neither the Ministry nor the Coalition are recorded at all. All this data and analysis of the situation, in particular those coming from abroad – here we need to know that the foreign has shown us a mirror, not only that we in most cases warn about it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also that the foreign has set up a mirror – and in our opinion all the data that has been presented now are even more threatening the rule of law and the stability of social regulation and show that the situation in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings is not satisfactory. In order to improve the situation with regard to the provision of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, we have proposed, in our recommendations to the National Assembly last year, a recommendation which, as always, has not been accepted by the coalition, although it has been concrete and very important proposals to improve the certainty of the situation in the field of justice. Perhaps today we would not have had such results in the European Court of Human Rights. It is therefore necessary to harmonise the efforts of all three branches of government in order to improve the situation in the field of justice. It is necessary to introduce that the judiciary is aware of its responsibilities, adopt such measures, and we have already said this several times and have come across a deaf ear. The Council of Justice must assess the work of judges and courts in a timely manner and ensure that the Government, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Council examine and prepare legal solutions with a view to improving transparency in the work of the judiciary, efficiency, reducing proceedings, preventing abuse of the judicial system, restoring confidence and establishing the personal responsibility of judges or holders of judicial functions. In short, let's not go to any cosmetic corrections, but, once again, a comprehensive reform of justice. The European Court of Human Rights notes that Slovenia is at the summit on the number of inhabitants found to be human rights violations between the members of the European Court of Human Rights. It notes that the Republic of Slovenia, with 148 cases of human rights violations found per million inhabitants, is first of all. Slovenia, which has been a member of this court since 1993, has lost as much as 94% of all cases, and after this statistics we are somehow comparable to Russia. In this respect, it is worth noting that the situation in relation to the data for Slovenia in relation to the data for the former SFRJ countries is even more worrying. For all the SFRY countries have been going through a similar process of decomposition of the former country, some of which are of course even more painful, and therefore the data that Slovenia is even more stunning after that survey, after the number of human rights violations per million inhabitants among the former SFRY countries. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that Slovenia from the countries of the former common country was also the first to be admitted to the European Union family. Even nearer after the negative is Croatia, where at least one violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms has been detected in 240 cases, meaning still more than 10% less than for Slovenia. However, that statistics would certainly be even more worrisome for Slovenia if, in the 2004-2008 mandate, the Janšev government and the current Minister of Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm, the government and the ministry did not introduce the Lukend project and other legislation, in particular the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay, but we did so to reduce the number of human rights violations within a reasonable period of time. The European Court of Human Rights therefore received more than 8 000 400 complaints from Slovenia in 2014. Now, the key information. It ruled in 323 cases and in 304 cases found at least one violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. According to the number of inhabitants, Slovenia is the first in the number of violations detected among the 47 members of the Council of Europe. Certainly a worrying information for Slovenia, which imposes the responsibility of those responsible for action to at least reduce significantly, if not over, human rights violations in judicial proceedings. In the review of the work of the European Court of Human Rights from 1959 to 2014, it is said that when this analysis was published during this period, which we will talk about most today and was published in May this year, the ECHR notes at least one infringement in 304 cases, and in three cases the parties settled. The highest number of infringements found relates to the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time, which has been violated by this right 256 times and then the right to an effective remedy 262 times, which, of course, also allows the exercise of other rights. Thus, it is obvious that these most numerous infringements are a systemic issue of the longevity of judicial proceedings, which has been unresolved in Slovenia for many years and has encouraged a large number of complaints to the European Court of Human Rights. At the end of this agenda item, allow me to read more about what Dr Yuri Toplak said about the published human rights violations published by the European Court of Human Rights report. He pointed out that in the past there have been many convictions before the European Court of Human Rights in Slovenia for the slow trial. In recent years, however, there have been substantial violations. Infringement of the right to a fair trial and the right to an effective judicial remedy. So says Dr. Jure Toplak: "People turn to the court when they see no other way out of the dispute, but the court rejects you in such a way as not to give you any chance of redressing the injustice. Most often by saying "unseemly" or by setting conditions that cannot be met. Instead of helping an individual, he is looking for ways to reject him. Even when there is a question in the law, the law judges interpret it as if it does not exist." Dr. Yuri Toplak is also convinced that the violation should not be attributed to the State, but to individual judges with a name and surname. This is what we say, because this is about transparency and transparency of procedures. Dr. Yuri Toplak says, "You know who these judges are. Many judges are excellent and some are violating rights. It is right to analyse where violations occur and to educate those who do not know human rights. If we do nothing, we will continue to be a country with the most violations." The judiciary or justice, in the broader sense of the word, is the pillar of the rule of law. In view of the above, we believe that urgent, swift and, in particular, effective and appropriate measures that are also proposed in the recommendation are necessary. More about human rights violations and the recommendations themselves as the proponent of the point below, according to the final positions of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. On 9 September, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Justice. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the Committee's recommendation, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Germany, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! At its 10th urgent meeting, on 9 September 2015, the Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a recommendation on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations from the review of work in 1959-2014 for the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 25 August 2015. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. On behalf of the applicant, a Member of the Commission, Dr Vinko Gorenak, provided an additional explanation. In his opening remarks, he said that the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations from the review of labour in 1959-2014 showed that the Republic of Slovenia, with 148 violations per million inhabitants, had reached the European Summit by the number of human rights violations and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings according to the number of inhabitants. The maximum number of infringements found relates to the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time and to an effective remedy. In the debate, opposition Members expressed concern about the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations in Slovenian judicial proceedings and called for support for the proposed recommendation. The fundamental changes of the Slovenian judiciary are essential through the participation of all three branches of the government. This would improve its functioning and restore citizens' confidence. According to the Coalition Members, the Republic of Slovenia is not a systemic human rights violator, according to the findings of the European Court of Human Rights, as the applicant wishes to do. However, they agreed that it would be good to have a broad debate on the state of the Slovenian judiciary based on an in-depth systematic analysis of the whole system. A written opinion was also presented to the Government rejecting the complainant's claims of mass violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. The proposed recommendation is therefore partly inadequate and partly unnecessary in the view of the Government. The Government has submitted to each proposed point extensive substantive views supported by statistical data which analyses the data discussed by the European Court of Human Rights. The Annex shows country comparisons following violations of individual provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, also in relation to the statistics contained in the Court’s annual report for 2014. The Government is aware of the problems of the judgments of the Republic of Slovenia by the Court, but points out that this is no longer the issue of judicial backlogs, but mainly of the situation in prisons, wiped out and savers of the Ljubljana Bank, which is primarily the responsibility of policy in its past decisions. The main infringements identified by the European Court of Human Rights for the Republic of Slovenia in 1994, when the Republic of Slovenia signed the Convention, by the end of 2014, relate to the period before 2006, when the National Assembly, on the basis of the Lukenda pilot judgment, adopted the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay and thereby established effective protection of this right within the framework of the Slovenian legal order. The Committee has therefore adopted conclusions, at the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups, proposing to the Ministry of Justice the establishment of a system that will allow regular monitoring of the statistics of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights relating to the Republic of Slovenia, and recommends that the Government continue with measures to strengthen the coordination of the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the effective representation of the Republic of Slovenia before that Court, as well as the education and information of the judiciary in the field of the jurisdiction of that Court. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to point 1 below. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he then voted on all points of the proposal together and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I, as Chairman of the Committee, found that the draft Recommendation on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations in the review of Part 1959-2014 for the Republic of Slovenia on the home working body had been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Mag. Tini Brecelj, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Today, we are talking about the relationship between the Slovenian judiciary and the European Court of Human Rights, or more precisely, given the content of the proposed recommendation, we are asking whether the Slovenian State and its judiciary are at the summit of countries in Europe, in the Council of Europe, regarding violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Slovenia has suffered from chronic problems of judicial backlogs, but has improved significantly in recent years. The recommendations we are getting from Europe are, more importantly, that we must continue with successful practices and measures. You could also understand this from the Justice Scoreboard hearings of the European Commission this May. You could understand this from the recommendations of the European Commission in the context of the European Semester, since this year only one recommendation relates to the judiciary. The claims that there is a structural, systemic problem in the Slovenian judiciary should be strongly rejected on the basis of data and comparative views. Let me mention that the judiciary has also achieved the objectives of the undertaking, which was signed in the previous term. It probably also shows that the judge at the European Court of Human Rights, Dr Boštjana M. Zupančič, who said, in connection with today's debate on 19 August this year, among other things that Slovenia is absolutely not considered a great or serious offender, there is no comparison with Ukraine on the one hand, and of course not with Germany on the other. Slovenia is therefore not considered to be a major violator from the very point of view of the number of cases, not to be serious about the importance of the content of matters, their impact or unacceptable interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms. The recommendation you are considering today is in fact based on a study by NGO RightsInfo on 14 August this year and does not come from the statistics themselves of the European Court of Human Rights, where statistics for 2004 were published as early as March this year. Most of the statistics in the survey concerning Slovenia relate mainly to the period 2005 to 2007, namely to a violation of the right to a trial within the reasonable period referred to in Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights and the right to an effective remedy provided for in Article 13 of the same Convention. The National Assembly was clearly aware of this problem in its 2004-2008 reference. The Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement was adopted without undue delay, which shall apply from 1 January 2007. Some of this reference is still in the Member States in 2015. The same applies to court decisions relating to the conditions of detention of prisoners in Slovenian prisons. This is a recurring matter from 2011 onwards, which is not comparable to the number of trials within a reasonable time. However, this number of successful complaints due to appropriate organisational measures in the area of prisons is decreasing. This is exactly the problem that you have partially embarked on in July this year, when you have substantially amended the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions and have been listening to the European Court of Human Rights judgments relating to residence and conditions in Slovenian prisons. I would also like to point out a fact that has not been sufficiently clearly presented so far. The NGO RightsInfo, in its August survey this year, was not consistent in its methodology for the processing of court statistics concerning the countries of the Council of Europe, as it focused on the comparison with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and missed quite a few smaller Member States of the Council of Europe, which are also under the jurisdiction of the Court. This is the case with San Marino, which, according to the methodology of this organisation, would be a country which is the first human rights violator of the European Convention. I guess we all know in this room that this can't be the case. In short, the country’s methodology with the lowest population puts it at the top with a simple calculation. On behalf of the Government, I would like to highlight the following. We believe that the proposed recommendation in some part should nevertheless be drawn to a clear system, which will be transparent and methodologically indisputable to the judgements of the European Court of Human Rights, improve coordination with regard to the enforcement of these judgments, and therefore present their content accordingly. We already had a similar debate in the National Assembly in April and May this year, when the National Assembly noted a significant improvement in the functioning of the Slovenian judiciary and called on the judiciary and the Government to continue to build on them with established measures and good practices and, where appropriate, to build them up wisely. Such a decision, if you will recall, was adopted at the hearing of Justice Scoreboard of the European Commission for 2014. As an example of good practice, Commissioner Jourov also highlighted the speech on the judiciary. If this is acceptable to Members and Members, the Government wishes to open itself in the future the issues of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Slovenian judiciary in other aspects of content, which will certainly show more appropriately the actual state of the judiciary in Slovenia and the increasingly recognised progress of the independent functioning of the judiciary. Let me add this. The government can only agree with the recommendations of the Committee on Justice of 9 September this year, when it was found that Slovenia is not a systemic human rights violator according to the statistics of the Court itself, namely the European Court of Human Rights. However, we will strive, as I have already mentioned, to establish a system that will help to present the judgments of the European Court of Justice and improve coordination with regard to their enforcement. The Committee's recommendation has also transformed it into its conclusions, and the Government supports these conclusions. To conclude, let me mention the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 9 September this year on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The report identified the main problems and highlighted nine countries with the highest number of outstanding judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. These countries are Italy, Turkey, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Romania, Greece, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria. The problems include the duration of judicial proceedings, illegal detention, non-execution of domestic court decisions, death or ill-treatment by law enforcement authorities and lack of effective investigation, and also poor conditions in detention facilities. Slovenia is therefore not among the countless countries and is not considered a problem by the Council of Europe Committee. Among other things, the Committee recommends the immediate implementation of judgments and the establishment of effective domestic remedies. And before the point, there's this. We, however, believe that, even to all of you, citizens are increasingly telling each other that they do not want officials who, after a long time, would only constantly criticize and sow negativity. Will we, when all of us are finally convinced that none of our systems are working and that all the resources are bad, live better and happier? The court's favor is with the numbers. The Court welcomes our good practices from abroad, particularly the last German judiciary to present the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the German judiciary a successful e-book project. These are the facts. [[advertising from the hall]] Quiet, please! So the direction is right and the speed of travel, we agree, still needs acceleration. More than extraordinary meetings, such an acceleration would mean good legislative proposals and a constructive debate when adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much. After such a palpation that we have heard so far, one must really stress something again. Let me start with the following. The documents are documents and are documents of the European Court of Human Rights and of no non-governmental organisation or whatever the State Secretary has already said. I always have a problem when people coming out of court teach me to go into politics and then go back to court like Mrs Kociper or you, the secretary of state. It is logical that you defend your qualities, but that you use incorrect information, incorrect data, and misleading, but there are other questions. But let's go to the dark. The SDS does not point to the state of justice since 2008, as some wish to show, but has long, long before. I myself recall that the SDS has already warned about the state of justice in 1999 and on and on. When we talk about human rights — this is our topic, not the land book — the next matter needs to be said. We already had one of the meetings of this national assembly or working body, i.e. the Justice Committee, when Dr. Sturm presented his research. We are today talking about human rights violations identified by the European Court of Human Rights, but we are not talking about human rights violations found here in Slovenia. And this is another chapter besides what we're talking about today. As you are aware, this needs to be reiterated, Dr. Sturm wrote in his study of 2 000 254 judges who participated in the various Senates, of course many times, who violated human rights in their work. This was identified by the various compositions of the Supreme Court as well as by the Constitutional Court. I reiterate that this is in addition to what we have now received from the European Court of Human Rights. However, last year the student Klemenčič, a student in the sense of Dr. Sturm, a deserving professor of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, of course did not recognise this research. Mr Klemenčič was smarter, they said they were methodological errors and I don't know what's going on today when the secretary of state sells numbers that don't exist. So last year, we pointed to this. Nothing happened, as you know. There is another matter to be said. Some numbers like that. Of course, Slovenia has received a service from the European Court of Human Rights since 1994. But what would be the situation if the numbers were back, by 1959, as in this study, we could only imagine. Eight thousand 400 cases came to the European Court of Human Rights. Eight thousand 400. The Court has taken them into custody and has already ruled in 323 cases, as said by colleague Irgle, and in 304 of these cases has found at least one violation of human rights. This means that Slovenian citizens, if their case comes to the table of the European Court of Human Rights, have a 94% chance of success. Then what our justice is, is a clear picture that is here today. Slovenia violated human rights in 148 cases per million people. Infringement of human rights. The State Secretary spoke of the fact that this is mainly due to an unreasonablely long-term trial and so on, but this is not true because there have been as many as 262 cases at the expense of the right to an effective remedy. You were talking about deletes on the board and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been adopted around the deleted can be attributed to the left policy option as a credit to the fact that we have the situation in this area as we have it. Why? Because what was adopted is, in fact, almost identical to the constitutional law that was at the table there in the year 2000. If your predecessors had accepted it then that story wouldn't have been there. There is another matter to be pointed out. The 1999 ECHR leads as one case, but thousands of people are involved, although this will be one case at the end. The State Secretary also discussed the following subject. I repeat, I have the original document there on the table, you can get it, and it's not from any NGOs. Mr Klemenčič found a terrible mistake in proposing that San Marino was a worse violator. San Marino is a worse violator, but with its 27,000 inhabitants, a pocket state is more like a local community in Ljubljana. This comparison with a serious EU Member State is, of course, mildly drawn from naphthalene. The situation is quite clear. Mr Klemenčič and government material – the secretary of state will surely quote this today and you have the wrong numbers, I will tell you why. Mr Klemenčič said that there are only two cases of property protection. We have eight copies of the right to privacy and family life, so we're pretty good. The right to freedom and security — six cases, the right to life — are no cases for Slovenia. And we're not good? Prohibition of torture — no examples of how good we are. This was the execution of Mr Klemenčič. Look, he said, and the government's work also says that there are no cases in the right to life. Lie, government, lie, secretary of state, and lie, Mr. Klemenčič. The case of Shilih, the 1993 boy who died in a hospital 20 years old. The parents did not find any options in the Slovenian space, all the courts rejected them. Not in the European Court of Human Rights. On item 6/2 – the right to life – Slovenia was convicted in the Shilih case. My parents warned me about this, so I also mention them by name and surname. Government material, Secretary of State, so you can take it home. At least we don't have to deceive us with numbers that aren't real and tell us that we're building our demand on some non-governmental organization that's supposed to make these numbers. That's not true. The document is original. Indeed, the government document and Mr Klemenčič – the secretary of state will today repeat that we have as many as 19 cases of inhuman and degrading behaviour. Don't talk about erased so-called pranks. That's not true, that's just not true. 19 cases, and that's not in the government's files. Why, the government, or those who prepared it, who came out of court, would go back to court. The fact remains that 148 cases per million people are over. We don't have anything here if anyone likes it between the judges or doesn't like it, that's a fact. Slovenia has therefore only been a member since 1994. I asked you earlier what would have happened if you had any other numbers back here. Better than us are Bulgarians who have 68 cases per million inhabitants, Croatia with 65 cases, Romania with 50 cases, and we have 148. One more thing to say is that all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, as colleague Irgl said, although we often consider them to be one way or another, are better off than we are in the field of human rights violations identified by the European Court of Human Rights, so they have less violations than Slovenia. We have long warned that measures are needed, not planting flowers around the court and similar matters, as is done by the Government or Minister Klemenčič with his amendments to the laws. Justice concerns itself and its privileges, said German Judge Doukoff, also mentioned by colleague Irgle. Another matter needs to be highlighted. In 2013, the European Commission already noted that many European countries reacted at the start of the crisis. Why at the start of the crisis? Because they were aware that reforms in justice were needed due to a faster and more efficient exit from the economic financial crisis. What have we done since 2013 in the field of justice? What an ethical code, what an agreement that the judiciary then did not respect, and so on. Not serious. In 2014, the European Commission made it very clear that we have one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of the judiciary. One of them will say that, of course, when you do this and that in front of the courts. I've heard that on the committee, too, but as far as I know the people who run the 2014 Committee are not our members at all. Someone on the board told me we're doing these things. As for this perceived independence of justice, justice often says: Of course, because you criticize us because you malign us and so on. Mr. Judges should know that this is how people judge on their own experience with justice. What else? We also have one of the lowest levels of confidence in justice. Perhaps Mr Maslesha imagines that he will write some circular and increase confidence. No, it will be necessary to work, or in his case, to leave that job. Commitment 2013, commitment to citizens. The secretary of state mentioned it and said it was largely completed. No, it's not true, Secretary of State, it's not true. You signed this in 2014. On 1 July 2014, you specified exactly what the target situation is for the number of judges and other judicial staff, and it is clear that you have given money and Mr Maslesha has not fulfilled his obligations by the deadline of 1 July 2014. The number of judges has not been reduced to the number he has committed himself to in his commitment to the citizen. It is said that the President of the Supreme Court simply ignores what he himself commits to the citizens. That's what he did. For justice we still give 86 euros per person per year. Why do they give the Germans 42? Why do they give the Swede 23? Because they work there. That's not the case with us. There are also more and more voices within the judiciary that point out that something is seriously wrong. Last thing you could see in January this year is a letter from one of the judges, why you're hiring judges, why you're appointing judges, if we don't have anything to do, which we're already judges. I hope this lady is still a judge. That's what she wrote to you. You all got it on a January email this year. Mag. Ivan Robnik, Chief Justice, clearly states that we cannot avoid being held responsible for human rights violations. We're responsible for that. So he's the Supreme Judge. But the secretary of state says no. Interesting. Dr. Toplak has already been told. There is something else to say that Jan Zląb, the Constitutional Judge, has pointed out politics in the judiciary. Mr Maslesha often talks about how politics puts pressure on them and so on, of course he thinks probably the right policy. Probably, isn't it? Setting up a mirror doesn't mean we're putting pressure on him. John Zląbek said that politics in justice has always been. Why are you saying there's no politics in justice? It's politics in the judiciary. The one who was there before 1990 didn't go out at all. He therefore justified the clear link between the left political option and the judiciary. If that's what the constitutional judge who spent his entire working time there in court says, then I'd believe him. That's how I justified this connection, too, if I called it that, between the left political option and the judiciary. There's another piece of evidence for that. The link between left policy options and justice. In 2010, we appointed the President of the Supreme Court in the National Assembly. Prior to that, Dara Lavtijar Bebler set political standards for who could possibly be the President of the Supreme Court. She said that candidate Marko Šorli could not be a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court because he had participated in a court chamber that had forgiven Paul Rupar. Maybe Mark Schorley voted not to say goodbye, we don't know. This laid the political foundation for who could become President of the Supreme Court, and this also happened. He became Mr Maslesha, and we know how it went. Article 8 of the Law on the Courts of Lady and Lords of Judges have never respected. This means that they cannot be appointed to a permanent term if they have violated human rights in their work. But we have at the top of Mr Maslesha's pyramid, which has done this mass, and there is Mr Fischer, who is also corrupt. And he's sitting right there. Of course you were for sitting there, you didn't do anything. The link between politics and justice. Not long ago, politicians, such as Mr Anderlič, used to go to court days. But not in the worst sense of the word, because he was a doctor, at least for the rules of procedure, but something else. But he teaches the Supreme Court. Mr. Saiovic also taught there. What's he got to do there? Why don't they invite me? I have a doctorate. Maybe I should tell them something. No, they don't invite me. But there is a very suitable left-wing politician. That's right. I'm not going past the Patri thing this time. I can't go through with this because it's over. I don't think I've ever talked about that talk about Patricia. I'll do it today. It's a purely mounted political process. Human rights violations, fact. Where has this been found? In the Constitutional Court. This case cannot even come to the European Court of Human Rights because everything has already been told. The fact that this has happened, at least the key things, always before the elections, you know. The fact that the defendants had actually read the substance of the indictment in Youth and then received mail by mail. So, the link between the judiciary and politics. Why didn't he publish another newspaper like that? Why Youth, Diary and Work? In this case, there was a violation of Article 28 of the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court said. Which means that "no one shall be punished for an offence for which the law has not determined to be a crime and has not prescribed a penalty for it before it has been committed." Thus, Slovenian courts have tried for something that did not exist. This is what Mrs Klanjškov knew, that the Senate of Senior Judges knew, how well did Mr Maslesha, who put himself in the Senate, himself, know. This is also a violation of human rights, and this is an eccentric violation. Ecclagen, clear, evident today. And you're talking to me about judging in unreasonablely long-term. To me, Secretary of State, you can't sell this. And then talk about elections, nonsense. About the unfair elections, that's me. For many of you sitting here, the question is, where would you sit if you didn't have unfair elections? But let's move on. Mr Maslesha said on the committee: "I recognize the decision of the Constitutional Court." Do you have any idea what he said about Patricia? "I recognize the decision of the Constitutional Court," he said. What about responsibility? You're not here, are you? This is the same as a doctor at some local level injecting a patient with an injection that almost kills the patient and rescues him at the clinical center, and the local doctor would say that he recognises the procedures of the clinical centre. That's probably not enough. Mr. Maslesha should have left a long time ago. To conclude, however, there is something that neither you nor the public will forget. We still have at the top of the Supreme Court a man who has massively violated human rights. Let's leave the stories about those shots at the border. If we consider this — which is why I should never have been a judge in Cyprus, but rather a senior judge and a supreme judge, and now even a president — he was a massive violator of human rights. Let's go in order. 6. 3. In 2003, the Supreme Court violated Article 29 of the Constitution – Legal guarantees in criminal proceedings, the number of which and this, I can also say matters if you want. 12. 2. 1997 as a judge of a higher court, he violated Articles 35 and 37 of the Constitution, the protection of privacy and personal rights and the protection of confidentiality of letters and other publications. 11. 12. 2002 has violated the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, namely 6.1 and 6.3, the right to a fair trial and justice in court proceedings, as the ECHR has found. 13. 5. 1998 The Supreme Court of Cyprus violated Article 29 of the Constitution in a case such as Article 29 — Legally clear in criminal proceedings. 8. 4. He violated Article 29 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. 9. 9. In 2004 he also violated Article 29 of the Constitution as supreme judge. Then it's 21. Ten. He violated Articles 14, 19 and 20 of the Constitution, it was equality before the law, protection of personal freedom, and the determination and duration of the detention; he left someone in prison for a little too long; he probably forgot. That was in 2004. 12. 2. He also violated Article 22 of the Constitution. 13. 1. In its role as supreme judge, 2005 violated Article 22 of the Constitution — Equal protection of rights. 4. 12. In his role as supreme judge, he violated the whole series, in violation of Article 29 of the Constitution and then violated Article 6, paragraph 3, of the Convention, the rights in the criminal proceedings which speak about it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 5. As Judge-in-Chief, he violated the second paragraph of Article 14 and the first paragraph of Article 19 of the Constitution, namely equality before the law and protection of personal freedom. 11. 11. He violated Article 37, first and second paragraphs, the protection of the confidentiality of letters and other publications. I don't know what he opened, any letters or anything. Judgement of the Supreme Court, 26. 1. He violated Article 29 of the Constitution in 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the person we have at the top of the pyramid, and as long as this "skinnyness" is, otherwise, I cannot say the left political options, which I have proved by my performance and by quoting responsible people, then we will have the situation that we have. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you can laugh, logically, Your Honor. Someone on the board wanted to prove to me that if I were talking about the "skinnyness" of the left political options with the judiciary, then hypothetically they could prove our links to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, of course this is nonsense. If Danilo Türk, the former president of the state, our member or our fan, that would still work. For he was the proponent of the vast majority of the present constitutional judges, so such a thing is said foolishly. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is as it is, I regret that we have not supported on the committee the proposals we have put forward as proponents, we have adopted some conclusions that the representative of the Justice Ministry, the State Secretary, agrees with. It is logical that she will agree with them because she wants to maintain the unaltered state of justice, because it suits her because she was there at work and she will go there when she is no longer in politics. I am sorry, therefore, that we have not adopted the conclusions that we should and I am sorry that today's debate will go through without conclusions because you have already cancelled them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak, with all due respect for your thoughts, of course I may or may not agree with many, you have rights to them, but this was a general debate. We can only conclude on the position of the Group. I didn't interrupt you, but please, if you don't mind the second time, but we'll separate these two parts of the debate. One is a parliamentary group, and the other is a controversy with the forerunners. Good. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The comments that the chairmen allow, in particular or only when the Members of our Group have a position or debate, are inappropriate. If you wish to intervene in any way, you should, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, intervene on an exact statement or any discredit. However, Comrade Gorenak went through the report very decidedly and argued with the data. He said which government data did not hold, which is verifiable in the report, and so on. In short, what you are doing that does not suit you, especially the subject of human rights or human rights violations, is politely said to be inappropriate for those of you who are now in charge of the meeting, for your President, who is absent, or for any of the deputies. I ask you to respect the integrity of the Members, the Group of Members. If you do not want others, ours must be because the debates are reasoned and at a worthy level. I suggest that you are also in today's debate, and still still sometimes such matters, which have no basis, not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the evidence, not in the arguments, not in the arguments anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u11	Mr Tanko, that is why I did not interrupt Mr Gorenak, because this Rules of Procedure do not really provide for me, but some culture or logic of things is such that you present the Group of Members, and later Dr Gorenak is registered for discussion. And this debate, or controversy, which he had already brought into this introduction, was a little too much for my taste. But I said I didn't interrupt because I don't think he's in violation of the Rules of Procedure in a direct textual sense. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much. My debate did not go in the direction of the suspension of the meeting either, but rather the interpretation of the data provided by Mr Gorenak on behalf of the Group of Members. This position is the position of the Group of Members, the report of the European Court of Human Rights and other available data. By the way, you did not intervene when Mrs State Secretary spoke, who provided data or progress in the land book, which had nothing to do with the report of the European Court of Human Rights. You're such a disciplinarian who probably read the material he owes to holding the meeting, he can't afford it. The government cited a whole bunch of data that had nothing to do with the report and you were dead cold silent. Gorenak gave us the information that stands and is from the report. He also warned of all the things that do not stand by the Government, have no basis, and are not accurate. Once again, Mr President, I propose that in this way you no longer allow yourselves to intervene in the debate or position or also in the comment or interpretation of what has been said in the position. This is a matter of debaters, a government that will be able to comment on these things, or other parliamentary groups and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State Tina Brecelj, distinguished colleague and colleague! I will take the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations from the review of work in 1959 to 2014 for the Republic of Slovenia. The applicants propose to the National Assembly to accept the conclusion that the situation in the Slovenian judiciary is not satisfactory, as Slovenia is the first among the European countries in the number of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, with the highest number of judgments relating to infringements of the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period and the right to an effective remedy. Among other things, the National Assembly is expected to find that such a situation in the judiciary threatens the rule of law and the stability of social regulation. The Desus Group did not support the recommendation on the home committee of the proposal. As we have repeatedly pointed out, with the situation in justice, of course, we cannot be completely satisfied, nor could the situation in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms be significantly better. However, not everything is as black as the proposals for this recommendation would like to be presented. The data mentioned in the proposal are insufficient and do not show the full picture. In certain places, however, they are even misleading. This is, for example, the fact that Slovenia is first in the number of violations per million inhabitants. Some other Member States of the Council of Europe, such as San Marino and Liechtenstein, are not mentioned. With the inclusion of these two countries, the picture becomes different, as we see that in the first places there are other small countries, not just Slovenia, after the number of violations per inhabitant. Otherwise, most of the judgments against Slovenia refer to a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. Most of these violations were from the period before 2006, when the National Assembly, on the basis of the judgment in the case of Lukend, adopted the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay and thereby established effective protection of this right. Thus, since 2006, and in particular after 2010, the number of complaints and judgments against the Republic of Slovenia has decreased significantly. In 2014, for example, only 6 new complaints against the Republic of Slovenia relating to infringement of the right to a trial within a reasonable period were filed with the State Defence Office. According to statistics, we can see that the situation is improving, but we still cannot be completely satisfied. We have therefore adopted conclusions on the home committee proposing to the Ministry of Justice to establish a system that will allow for regular monitoring of the statistics of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights relating to the Republic of Slovenia online. This will enable the public to be informed objectively. It is recommended, however, that the Government continue to take measures to strengthen the coordination of the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the effectiveness of the representation of the Republic of Slovenia before the Court of Justice, as well as to inform the Court of Justice in the field of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In the Desus Group, we believe that the situation in the field of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms does not mean that we cannot be fully satisfied, but it is not as massive a violation as the recommendation's proponents have tried to present. All branches of government, not only justice, but also the enforcement and legislative branch, must strive to minimise violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to improve the situation in this area in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u16	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! More and more people are aware that, as a result of the deprivation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the country cannot resort to ignoring the problem, but that fundamental changes and measures are needed in the European Court of Justice. The Republic of Slovenia is also no exception. The reason for today's plenary session of the National Assembly is the review of the work of the European Court of Human Rights in 1959-2014, presented in an infographic dated February 2015. The 55th annual operation of the European Court of Human Rights, established in 1959 under the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which entered into force in September 1953, was very concentrated. The Republic of Slovenia has been a member of the Council of Europe since 1993 and ratified the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms on 28 June 1994. From this concentrated text, the applicants pointed out that the Republic of Slovenia is the worst country in the society of the Member States of the Council of Europe, with 148 cases of human rights violations found per million people in the first place. Since 1993, when she became a member of the Court, she has lost as much as 94% of the cases. In 304 cases, the Court found at least one violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. A violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time and 262 times the right to an effective remedy has been found. Social Democrats are aware that in the past, in particular, mistakes have been made that have resulted in the deprivation of human rights, in particular the deleted, the tenants of denationalized apartments, the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, the people who have waited too long for the decision of the courts, prisoners and others. And it is because of past acts in our country today that there is probably no one who would be proud of these violations. Nor is it because the infringements found for the country are financial consequences, but above all shame. Unfortunately, neither the financial nor the shame of deleting from the residence records were seen by those who consistently insisted that they had not been deleted and even sought to hold a referendum on the subject. The Republic of Slovenia must now, on the basis of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, repay compensation for human rights violations, not only because of the deletion, but also because of the length of the settlement process. The drafter writes that statistics would be significantly worse if it were not for the 2004-2008 project and other legislation, in particular the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay, to contribute significantly to reducing human rights violations within a reasonable time. Lukenda was a project that sought to increase the number of judges in order to reduce judicial backlogs. Paradoxically, however, the proposaler, who has praised the Lukend project in the material, has seen largely too many judges per 100,000 inhabitants over the past five years. They know the authorities or what justice is all about as constantly as politically motivated, incompetent and irresponsible. We think that the debate at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice has been good, that the representatives of the Ministry, the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice and others have presented a broader view of the situation and have stressed that the employees and those responsible in the judiciary and the judiciary are aware of the shortcomings, that they are fully responsible for resolving the perceived deviations from good practice, not only on a case-by-case basis, but also on a systemic level, and that they will continue in this direction. We have also been informed of the activities devoted to the right cooperation between the Ministry and the State Defence Office in cases where the cases before the European Court of Human Rights and the Office of the Attorney-General on behalf of the State are defended, and later when the decisions of the Court have already been issued. Your Honor! The basic constitutional charter on the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia states that the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality, without any discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force. Therefore, we believe that we must work consistently to implement Article 14 of the Constitution, which means that everyone is guaranteed equal rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. Social Democrats do not agree with the proposaler's claim that the Republic of Slovenia is the largest human rights violator, especially on the basis of concentrated infography, which shows the 55-year functioning of the European Court of Human Rights, and not on the basis of an unspecified methodology for data collection and processing. However, we are aware that there is still a lot to be done in court to improve matters. Any detected infringement of the European Court of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia must be dealt with in all seriousness and measures taken to prevent human rights violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u18	Good-bye, everybody! At the outset, I must say that in the United Left we welcome every debate on human rights and the problems faced by the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia with their violations. That these problems actually exist is also well illustrated by the Ombudsman's annual reports, and it is clear from the latter that some warnings are repeated practically every year and that addressing these problems should become our priority. We therefore support such discussions. However, we have problems with the fact that practically every month the subject appears at a meeting of the National Assembly, and each time it is gathered around one case and one individual. Every time the situation in the judiciary is again tried as catastrophic, every time this one case is so dramatic that the rule of law is threatened by the motioners. Unfortunately this time, too. The proposal before us today is simply misleading, at several points. In the proposal for recommendations, the applicants collect the number of all successful complaints against Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights and conclude from this figure, shown per million inhabitants, that the Slovenian judiciary systematically violates human rights. Such reasoning is both flat and sophisticated. The actual situation is not as drastic as the applicants show it, but it could certainly be and should be better. If we really want to talk about human rights problems and violations in Slovenia, we must first look at the content and structure of successful actions against Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights. The majority of these infringements relate to a period of time up to 2006 and to a pilot judgment in the case of Lukend relating to a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable period. Only that year has Slovenia been convicted of violations of this right as many as 152 times. Slovenia responded with the Lukenda project and the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay. They are well aware of these facts, since both projects were adopted during the time of Minister Šturm. So if we take the information that Slovenia with 148 violations per million people in the first place, we have found the reason for more than half of them and the problem has been solved more or less. Now let's look at the data again. In 2006, a total of 1,340 complaints were lodged against Slovenia and 189 judgments were delivered. With this, we have provided total negative statistics for all the years to now and for a few years to come. Do socialists believe that Slovenian courts can be better in relation to the duration of judicial proceedings? Absolutely. Shortening judicial proceedings should become one of the priorities of the Minister of Justice. Judicial proceedings must be as short and as effective as possible and the story of obsolescence should practically not be seen. However, the number of infringements of the right to a trial within a reasonable time frame, irrespective of the problems that exist after 2006, has fallen rapidly. Let us also look at the statistics of the European Court of Human Rights over the last 8 years. It makes it clear that Slovenia has, in particular, problems which the Ombudsman points out practically every year. Let's stop with data for 2014. Slovenia was sentenced 13 times last year from a total of 29 convictions due to the situation in the Institute for the End of Prisons of Ljubljana due to inhumane treatment of prisoners. Therefore, it is not only the courts that are to blame for the convictions before the European Court of Human Rights, as the proponents show. As far as the sentences for inhumane conduct are concerned, the reason is actually on the side of every single government which, due to the constant savings in Slovenian prisons, did not ensure a sustainable situation. Regardless of the exceptional decline in convictions since 2006, improvements are certainly not only possible, but also more than necessary and necessary. However, in order to find concrete solutions, the data of the European Court of Human Rights needs to be deepened and actual culprits and the causes of the current situation found. However, we will certainly not find these solutions when we consider the recommendations made by the SDS almost every month. Following all the recommendations that we have already addressed in this mandate, it would be illusory to expect the SDS to address all human rights violations. They are, of course, concerned only with the rights of one individual who, as far as it is known, has never been a party before the European Court of Human Rights and his name appears in every SDS proposal relating to justice. With regard to the report of the European Court of Human Rights, which is the basis for today's debate, the name of this individual should in fact be mentioned several times. By no means, however, in terms of the violation of his rights but of the violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms by a total of 25 000 671 individuals. On 26 February 1992, 25 000 671 persons were deleted from the Register of Permanent Population of the Republic of Slovenia. Of the 25 thousand 671 people, 13 thousand 426 still had no status. That both the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights confirmed the deleted fundamental and constitutional violations of human rights and that it was arbitrary, the arbitral decision of the then authorities. If the case of deleted persons were dealt with individually, such as in a reasonable time frame, the data on the number of human rights violations by Slovenia would be as shocking as the SDS shows. However, these violations would not have been committed by the judiciary, but also by that individual, who is expected to be most frequently caused by the judiciary. One of the most embarrassing stories of Slovenian history is not mentioned in the proposal for recommendations. As has already been said, the SDS work of the judiciary assesses only and only one individual, and on behalf of that one individual, they always come to the same conclusion that the judiciary is in a catastrophic state, judges are mass violators of human rights, decisions are politically motivated and so on. The situation in which the most important and most resilient cases due to procedural irregularities fall before the higher courts and in which all the biggest culprits or suspects of corruption and privatisation affairs are still on the loose, of course, the reputation of the judiciary is of no benefit. This is a testimony to the problems the judiciary has, but we believe in the United Left that this is a power to change, but the SDS proposals will not contribute to this. Finally, I would like to announce how we will vote in the United Left, but unfortunately this is another one of those debates where there is actually no solution that we can vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u20	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we are convinced that Slovenian justice needs radical changes and not just minor cosmetic corrections. This is highlighted in all our debates, both in the context of the proposals for amendments to the laws on justice and in the debate on the state of justice. Most of the other European countries reformed the judiciary at the time of the change in the political system. We didn't do it. The judiciary remains a closed system without the ability of self-reflection. This is demonstrated by the views expressed by the Supreme Court of Justice in public appearances when presenting the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations in Slovenia. The violation of human rights must be an alarm to the courts and an opportunity for them to review the specific violations that have occurred and draw up a plan to address such violations in the future. In public appearances, the representatives of the courts are deceiving that these violations are a matter of the past, that everything is now different, that trials are virtually gone.In short, they believe that everything is fine now and that things have improved to this extent, that justice does not need any major changes. The supremacy is closing its eyes in front of reality. In her annual reports, the Ombudsman draws attention to the substantively poor and poorly reasoned judgements. The economy draws attention to an inactive legal state. Public confidence in the judiciary is among the lowest in Europe. Nor does the professional public show the necessary confidence in the judiciary. In New Slovenia, we are deeply concerned about the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on violations of rights. The fact is, these findings mirrored our judicial system. No one takes responsibility for this situation, not in the judiciary or in politics. And that's where the biggest problem is. In the judiciary, officials, both judges and prosecutors, are in fact not responsible for the regularity and legality of their work. With us, officials already have difficulty taking on subjective responsibility, not to speak of the objective responsibility of the highest judicial officials. In this area, we cannot compare ourselves with other European countries with escaped democracy. If we do not already have an escaped system of accountability by the officials, the political function holders, the Minister of Justice and the whole Government should do everything to ensure that the highest judicial functions are always occupied by persons with integrity. In view of the failure to act in individual cases of irregularity and illegality found in the work of the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney-General, the current ruling policy on the status quo in the judiciary also assumes full political responsibility for the current situation. We do not agree with the Government's opinion on the situation of detected human rights violations in Slovenia, in particular with regard to the relativisation of this situation. It is a fact that we have serious problems in this area and that, within the framework of the powers of the law and the executive branch, we need to approach the solution of these problems. Ensuring the functioning of the rule of law is also a prerequisite for the normal functioning of the economy, especially for the arrival of new foreign investors. The ruling party promised the rule of law to the electorate before the elections and therefore received high support. Relativising problems is certainly not the right way to the rule of law. A number of problems and dilemmas are emerging with regard to identified human rights violations by the European Court of Human Rights and the functioning of Slovenian justice. Let me draw attention to some of them in this place. Let's take a look at the beginning. Only running for judicial posts has taken place all the years so far without predetermined clear, verifiable and publicly published criteria. The criteria for selection between candidates at the legal level were not established until this year, with the latest amendment to the Judicial Service Act. The Council of Justice or its members having jurisdiction in this area shall not be responsible for the decisions taken, irrespective of the choice of candidates or of any other matters within their jurisdiction. If I continue, the system, as it is in the judiciary and also broader in the judiciary, actually protects the bad judges. But great injustice is done to good judges who work conscientiously, work hard, and have exactly the same status, not least the same salary as bad judges. Even more, good judges often fail to advance to higher courts, although they have all the conditions and better references than the anti-candidates. Here I can recall the recent case when an external candidate was proposed to the post of Chief Justice by the Council of Justice, even though in the view of the Court of Justice, the District Court had better conditions. The ventilation of judicial species is necessary and can be carried out with minor changes. One of them is the greater public and transparency of the work of the courts and judges. We expect the Minister of Justice to take the measures already promised in this direction. One of them is the public publication of all court decisions on the Court’s websites by signatures of judges who have decided on a case-by-case basis. We have also proposed the publication of annual statistics by court and judge. This will enable the public to monitor the quality and quantity of the work carried out by the individual court and judge. The great disadvantage of our justice is the unequal application of law. It is common for two judges or two different Chambers to decide diametrically the opposite, with a virtually equal factual state. Such practice has led to a lack of confidence in the work of the courts, as they are becoming lottery trials and are dependent on happiness. Therefore, the outcome of the individual procedure depends most often on who is the subject of the case and not on the actual situation found. A major problem in judicial practice, particularly in recent years, is its use as the highest formal legal source. Both courts and administrative authorities no longer decide on the basis of law, but only on the basis of the so-called case law, i.e. the opinions and views taken by the court in another decision. Therefore, the decisions of the court are no longer based on the law. However, this jurisprudence is, as has already been said, uneven. How to ensure predictability and legal certainty for citizens under such judicial practice? However, it often happens that court practice literally oversteps the law in force, although this is good and clear. In this way, the courts are actually interfering with the legislative branch of power, while at the same time creating confusion in the judiciary, which even the legislator cannot correct, as the National Assembly does not have the tools to change the case law. We therefore stress that judicial practice as a real source must be applied only when it is necessary for the uniform application of law or for the elimination of legal voids, otherwise any decision or judgment must be based on the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u22	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The group of unrelated Members considered that, given the situation in the judiciary, it is appropriate to discuss this, and it is worrying that there are no representatives of the judiciary here who should hear and respond appropriately to these matters. In this implementation, I will highlight a number of problems that are essentially the cause of human rights violations. We deal with consequences, not causes. Until they admit in the judiciary that there is a mistake, which is the first step, we will not come to the right solutions. One is the reputation of the judiciary. From public research, statistics and everything that has been heard – I will give a detailed analysis later – it turns out that there is a kind of bias, that it is a question of independence. This can only be resolved by judges themselves, within their own ranks. That's the first step. The second is the effectiveness of the judiciary. The main problem, which has already been pointed out today, has already been pointed out by the Germans, who have reviewed the situation in our country and have found that most of the judges have separated their work in the first stage and that the problem is the second stage and then the next stage. The problem is that the second stage does not decide – of course, statistics decide more than in the past – but in truly reverberating and difficult cases they do not hope to take responsibility and carry out the treatment or decide on the facts already given and on the documentation given. In the case of judges in the form of a Senate, they should also assume this responsibility, as more than one first-degree judge assumes responsibility and have them decide how to shorten the proceedings. I advocate that you go through the trial once, but not twice or more, and that is also advocated abroad. And that's the biggest factor that means we have so many deadlines. The third issue is recruitment and promotion. We have met with this several times on the Mandate-Volution Commission and have been warned that we are attacking the judiciary. We have repeatedly warned that it is only that we want transparent criteria and that we are alerting us to mistakes. The role of the Judicial Council is to make transparent decisions on these criteria. How do I see this decision? We only get the tip of an ice mountain in materials for the Mandate-Volume Commission. Quality studies show that there are more problems when no one checks the work of the Council of Justice, so we are the guardian in exceptional cases. We also have the possibility of appointing judges to make extraordinary progress. I believe that if a judge is to make extraordinary progress, this is the top of this judicial profession and must be recognized as such in society and its works are recognized in society, that I do not have to read the material that I get, because this judge and his work know the whole society as such, and then I have no problem raising my hand for such a person, because it is the top of some profession. The fourth thing is management. The administration of the courts has been given new functions, but it has also assumed responsibility. The key thing is that the administration that runs the court can arrange judges. We know how Dr. Gorenak's colleague mentioned that some courts have no work and others are drowning in work. The job of the administration is to fairly divide this work, burdened the judges, and therefore assess the work of those who are unable to do their job and those who are overworked and who are good at their profession. Equally, all courts, regional courts as well as the cases themselves, must be burdened evenly. If I say the main issue, which was also raised by Minister Klemenčič, as far as education is concerned and so on. I am committed to this, and this is crucial to human rights for judges to be judged. We are witnessing the phenomenon of more and more judges fleeing from the trial into some other work: administrative work, advisory work and the like. That's why we have a large number of judges. This could balance the number of judges in order to have fewer judges and, of course, the reputation would increase as a result. As far as education is concerned, we have two problems. Of course, I am in favour of better and better education for judges, but the problem is that judges are also doing educational work in addition to their work. This was meant exceptionally for judges who help in colleges or educate their colleagues. The whole system has turned into capitalist money-gathering and judges are educated for private organisations, which means that they are in conflict of interest or that they are acting corruptly more broadly than corruption in a broader sense. Another problem is who and how he educates judges. We can see that some educations involve people who are on their own in criminal proceedings or who pressure their opinions on judges’ decisions. This has been an increasingly common problem lately. The problem of judges and education, as far as education is concerned from abroad. Of course, I support education and guests from abroad, but we must bear in mind that our legal system is linked to the German legal system, and the economy, at least as far as financial crime and economic crime are concerned, has been taken from America. Thus, two systems, American and German, are cut here, so such education does not bring the desired results. So we need to consider in this direction who will educate our judges and how there will be no anomalies. At the end of my first implementation, however, I would point out that human rights are also violated within the judiciary, namely, those judges, as already mentioned by a colleague from New Slovenia, who are doing well, are not making progress and therefore have problems. Thus, there is also a violation of human rights within the judiciary, and these judges do not hope to expose or complain because they fear that their careers will be threatened if they are exposed, for they always come to the Council of Justice, which decides on their advancements. This is just one of the problems that the judiciary must resolve, for these are the causes of human rights violations. When they acknowledge these mistakes and begin to eliminate them, they will also be more successful and less human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u24	Your Honor! We are, of course, pleased to have had a good time in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, and we have an opportunity to talk about human rights. We will also participate in any debate that concerns human rights. But we strongly oppose the claim that the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, as far as human rights are concerned, is devastating and that a situation that is not ideal is solely the responsibility of regular courts. What can be found with regard to the proposal for a recommendation from the proposer? This one is formally incomplete. If we look at the annexes, the annex to the proposal is just a proposal. Yes, it refers to the annual report of the European Court of Human Rights and the short version, but it is not an annex. We can look it up online, and we found it. However, the findings drawn from the annual report are from some of the non-governmental organisations that have accepted them as appropriate or as needed. We voted against the recommendation in the Modern Centre Party because we do not want it to be found that the only and exclusive culprit for human rights violations is the judiciary. As already explained by the Minister and representatives of the judiciary on the Committee on Justice – the distinguished colleague Dobovšek was not present on this committee and could not discuss this with them – this cannot be concluded on the basis of the data contained in the report of the European Court of Human Rights, nor does the Court itself expose Slovenia as mass human rights violators. It's not ideal, it's not ideal, it's not that far from it. I myself, like my many obvious colleague Gorenak, have come from the courts, but to draw attention to the errors of the court. You can draw attention to mistakes if you get to know the system and if that's what you want, I won't discuss it right now. So, by no means, once again, we repeat, there is no way to seek the sole culprit in a regular trial. Why? It has already been said, on the Committee and also today, that the figures referred to in the report of the European Court of Human Rights relate to the right to a trial within a reasonable period and to the right to effective protection related thereto, and that these are violations that occurred prior to the adoption of the law on the provision of a trial within a reasonable period and before the adoption of the Lukend programme. By the way, I agree that the Lukenda programme has helped and has its effects, but at the time of the adoption of the Lukenda programme, 21 judges have been invited to appear before the courts, and the number of judges in the courts has increased significantly at the time of adoption, which is why we now have so many. Now they can't just be cut off and fired from their jobs, as it would seem to someone, because there is also legislation that regulates all of this. Second reason. Others who are responsible for a situation that is not ideal, to which we can turn and ask them for responsibility, first and foremost, are in politics. In politics, in this national council. Until 2006, we did not have an effective remedy in the Republic of Slovenia if the right to a trial was violated within a reasonable time. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights – see, read the judgment in the Lukend case, which is a sample case – found that a person who claims that he has been violated human rights in the event of an unreasonable trial could exceptionally turn to the European Court of Justice, although he did not refer to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This is therefore an exception, which was also taken into account at the time by the European Court of Human Rights, which did not take into account the statement of the Republic of Slovenia that Slovenia had not exhausted all legal remedies. In all other cases, however, the complainants who turn to the European Court of Human Rights must exhaust all the domestic remedies that are effective, so this is the Constitutional Court. In addition to policy, we can also identify the responsibility of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the last instance, the final stage to which applicants of complaints who claim that they have been violated human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. So we have several factors. We do not take the view that courts must be defended at all costs, but we do not have to look for the culprit at all costs and put them on the cross of regular courts and judges. There are other factors, so if you know, and if you want to know the system, then you can also figure it out and sort it out. In the case of deleted shareholders of capital companies, which the Constitutional Court has already ruled several times and is now before the European Court of Human Rights, we will have the opportunity to determine whether the Constitutional Court was right. While the Ombudsman has also found that the situation is not ideal, we all agree on this, but also in her article at IUS-INFO she found that the situation is by no means pompous and that she believes that a national programme for the protection of human rights is needed. A number of other measures would also be found, which we will also strive to implement. At the end. The current Slovenian judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Dr Boštjan M. Zupančič, has repeatedly said that he does not favour or have an extremely good opinion on the ordinary court. We all appreciate his opinion and do not see a reasonable reason for not appreciating it when it comes to human rights, since he is clearly an expert in this field and has been working for many years in the European Court of Human Rights. He said that such findings resulting from the interpretation of the report of this non-governmental organisation were not accurate. They're just not right. Therefore, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre did not want to participate in the validation of the recommendations that would have been so confirmed, and even more so, they put the burden on the judiciary alone, which is why we have not accepted these recommendations. However, we are, of course, in order to look at the human rights situation and to take the measures necessary to better address the protection of human rights in the field of justice and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel, there will be no misunderstanding because today's business debate was entirely justified in the National Assembly. The Group of Members and Members has collected signatures and added the material that we are considering today. Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Ms Eva Irgle, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, once again, Mr Vice President! First, let me say that I expected him to be at such an important meeting when we are talking about human rights violations in the judiciary, the present Minister of Justice and not just the Secretary of State. I would really expect an explanation as to why the Minister is not among us today. With regard to the views of the groups of Members, I have listened very closely to them, views on this subject, which is significantly broader than the report of the European Court of Human Rights itself, which, inter alia, concluded that we are among the Member States of the European Union after human rights violations in the first place. I must say that all these views, which have now been presented, particularly by the left political parties, have in fact not surprised me in any way. It was an excuse for what happened at the European Court of Human Rights, and in particular for the protection of the judicial system. I am aware that Mr Minister is not responsible for these violations in the European Court of Human Rights, but it is the Minister of Justice who has to encourage first the debate on measures to improve this situation and then, in fact, bring such laws into this room that will make the justice system more effective, in particular more transparent and transparent in the functioning of the judiciary. Today, the Minister is not among us. There's been a lot of relativization in these positions. Some flat-rate claims. There was no talk of human rights violations. For example, the distinguished secretary of State spoke about the land book. I know exactly why the Secretary of State mentioned the land book. Because there is a fact that the project, I think, was then called Hercules, if I am not mistaken, it was not successful at the first stage in incurring judicial backlogs, and then, in the second phase, when it was carried out in the field of the land book, it was successful. There is no dilemma here that this is not the case, but today, Madam Secretary of State, we are talking about other human rights violations and we should all pay attention to them together. It seems to me that, at the beginning of the debate on an area that is extremely sensitive, because we are also talking about the integrity of individuals who have been violated by human rights in judicial systems or in justice, I should point out the poor situation in our justice and the fact that institutions abroad have also confirmed this. But first, let me remind you: respect for human rights and their legal protection was in fact the reason for the creation of our new country. I don't think we've been aware of that much lately. Thus, in the light of respect for human rights, we have been able to see the origins of this new constitution in the so-called 1988 Writing Constitution and in the Mayan Declaration next year. Then, in 1990 and 1991, we received the highest legal act, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is based on respect for human rights. But today, how paradoxically, we are talking about the fact that in Slovenia as a member of the European Union – which, at the beginning of becoming a member of the European Union, has also decided to respect the Declaration on Respect for the Fundamental Conventions of the Council of Europe and thus commit itself to respect the conditions for accepting this declaration, it is said that it will respect human rights and ensure the rule of law – today, as we can see, we are far removed from these basic democratic proposals. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u27	Mrs. Eva Irgle, just a minute. I accidentally turned off your microphone. I'm asking you to turn it back on. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u28	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u29	Sounds like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u30	I hope I've heard before that you just ruled me out of the accident.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u31	Bad. If you can repeat those last two sentences, please. Thank you. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Therefore, in the preamble to that declaration, which I spoke about earlier, we also wrote: "Aware that the Council of Europe Conventions on Human Rights are open to accession only to countries that actually guarantee the realization of recognised human rights with them, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expresses the conviction that in the Republic of Slovenia the conditions laid down for the Member States of the Council of Europe Conventions are actually met." Of course, the role of human rights in our constitutional order was also given great importance by the Constitutional Court in 1997 in its decision. And then it wrote the following, where there is a very important argument, because today we are moving away from this: "Human rights are as a starting and central part of the constitutional regime that justifies the definition of Slovenia as a democratic and legal state, so crucial that the Constitution, in addition to citing them comprehensively, also ensures their direct realization. The fundamental value of the Constitution, from which we must come, is the protection of an individual from interference with his or her integrity." But here, respected colleagues and colleagues, at this very point, we fell as a country. The European Court of Human Rights has given us a clear mirror. By the end of 2014, the ECHR had received more than 8 thousand 400 lawsuits from the Republic of Slovenia and ruled in 323 cases. But in 304 cases, he found at least one violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. So our country, when it came to it, promised itself with various documents, and also through the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to meet the conditions of the Council of Europe Convention, and today obviously it is no longer so, at least not to the extent expected. Since the publication of the report of the European Court of Human Rights, it has been trying to reduce the weight of the findings of this study in Slovenia. And unfortunately, that's what different institutions do. This is so done by the Ombudsman because he speaks very casually about these human rights violations, which are clearly and precisely defined. That's what the Justice Department does. He repeatedly apologizes for what happened, but he does not require any responsibility, no responsibility. Nor does it lay any ground for judges to accept in any way responsibility for the procedures in which they have intervened in their integrity and dignity, even though this is a right which also belongs to them under the Constitution, not only on human grounds. In short, no one in this country has ever been responsible for the apparent human rights violations that put us first among the Member States of the European Union, and obviously never will, at least there is no legislation in this direction. Although we already have a criminal provision that clearly states that responsibility for mistakes must be claimed from judges. But you know what's most interesting, this provision has never been applied before. And you probably won't say that's because the judges and the judges are doing the right thing. I believe that the vast majority of judges and judges are good and that they try to do what is fair and responsible. However, there are many who, perhaps consciously, have violated human rights. But nothing happens to them. One of these is even run by the Supreme Court. Mr Branko Maslesha has violated human rights more than 14 times in various judicial systems. Not to mention that he was already in the previous regime, the totalitarian regime, an important official in Cyprus and has already violated human rights there. But the gentleman was calm, without considering what this brought for democracy, not only kept in position, but even increased, probably for the reward, because he brought the Patrio process so well through. Of course, such a person needs to be trusted because he will always take care of ours. And that's the problem with this justice. As already German Judge Doukoff said, the problem with Slovenian justice is that they have not yet been able to change their minds. There are still deep skeletons somewhere else, and that's why nothing moves. That's why nothing moves. However, we do have many young lawyers, trained lawyers, who point out exactly that but do not hear enough. They are designed, for example, in the European Slovenia Society, but their argument does not sound as strong as any other. I see it as a problem. I also see the problem that the parties to the coalition are always protecting the mistakes that happen in the judicial system, rather than clearly condemning what happens. A sharp response would be expected in such cases. Instead of protecting the integrity of individuals who have been violated human rights, you prefer to protect those who have caused these violations. We're just here to point out mistakes and try to eliminate them, along with you. That is why, of course, I expect a more constructive debate, even in terms of proposals, than the views of the groups of Members have been presented. I also personally expected a strong response to the analysis of the European Court of Human Rights from the Ombudsman. Especially if we know that the Ombudsman is an informal form of protection of the rights of individuals in relation to holders of authority. This means that the guardian is the first to react and raise his voice when it comes to protecting individuals against authorities. This is the goal of the Ombudsman. It is not the aim of the Ombudsman to pact in any way, either with the judicial branch of power on the one hand or with the executive branch of authority on the other. The Ombudsman must ensure that the human rights of individuals are protected, says citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, personally, even as President of the Commission on Human Rights in the National Assembly, I truly expected that the Ombudsman's Office would not respond so much to these statements, and in particular that it will be clear that action must be taken in this area, that next time we will no longer take the first place in human rights violations at the European Court of Human Rights. We have thus experienced some coverage of these human rights violations in the judiciary by the Ombudsman, arguing that they are only human rights violations due to the longevity of the proceedings. And we are also hearing this today in this National Assembly by both the State Secretary and the coalition parliamentary groups. What a hoax! We all know what the right to a trial means without undue delay. This is the constitutional right set out in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know what that means. If this constitutional right fails, of course, all other human rights are also waived. Therefore, to argue that there is a negligible violation of human rights. It's absurd. Not only is it absurd, it's just an act of deceiving. Those who know more about the field of protection and respect for human rights do not know that Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights also speaks about this key right, the right to a trial without undue delay, or else they would not have done so at all. We wouldn't have these mechanisms, we wouldn't have set them up. But we did, because a violation of this right gives birth to violations of all other rights. Now, I would like to begin by explaining that human rights violations are, of course, beginning on Slovenian soil, that is clear. Judges and judges are responsible for this. The violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms caused by judges and courts in Slovenia as part of the judiciary are most apparent from the third interim report made by Dr. Lovro Šturm. There has been a lot of talk about these studies, but this is the first research done in this area. We may not like it, because that's what the data is. But we cannot speak disparagingly of the one who prepared such a study. It's the right thing to do. Because this research gives, at least for me, alarming data to which the Ministry of Justice should react. But the Ministry of Justice deals with cosmetic corrections, but less is interested in some legal and quality reform of justice. But I will not think about it, because the coalition repeatedly says that we are throwing data out selectively to relativize and so on, I will go specifically into the violations of human rights caused by certain judges. Judge Bojan Dolenc has participated in the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and of human rights 15 times, three times as President of the Senate. Now I wonder if he's a judge, but I'm not talking about his other job when he was responsible for the violations. Was there any sanctions for violations? Could he continue to do his work peacefully? It is important to understand that if mistakes are made, then some responsibility must also be taken. It's not just in the justice system. I'm looking at Mr. Gantar right now, and it's similar in health. It is necessary to take responsibility and then, of course, to work on, better and even more effectively. I have already said that since 2008, there has been a criminal provision concerning the liability of judges, which has never been applied before. Why wasn't it used? Madam Secretary of State, I'm sorry that Mr Klemenčič is not here. I'm with you, too, but I'd expect you to answer some of the questions below. Why has the criminal provision introduced since 2008 never been applied before? Why there's no case. Then we have Judge Martino Lippai. She participated in the violation of the Constitution and human rights 25 times, eight of which appeared as Senate President. Have we ever heard of anyone responsible for violations in this case? This does not mean that he must not do his job, but merely that a provision already in existence is applied. That's all I'm talking about. Judge Irena Badovinac-Bijeljič participated 16 times in the violation of the Constitution, of which she was president of the Senate twice. In particular, I would like to know whether this judge has ever responded to this criminal provision, which exists in 2008. Some sanctions are probably defined, then you can explain more. Then we have a judge, now the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Masleša, who participated in the violation of the Constitution and human rights 14 times, of which he was three times the President of the Senate. On one occasion, he even took part in the fact that he would be in the Senate to discuss the Patria process. That's interesting. These moments are very interesting. But people know this, so they are also protesting before the court because they are aware that a rule of law must actually be established based on just justice. Judge Jasna Pogačar, now a constitutional judge, participated in 13 cases in violation of the Constitution and human rights. Did something happen here? Then, say former Judge Vasili Polič, who participated 13 times in human rights violations, was three times in the role of Senate President. How does the Ministry of Justice view such violations? That's what I'm really interested in. Judge Kristina Ozbolt, 11 times she participated in a violation of the Constitution, was twice the president of the Senate. A 2008 criminal provision may have been applied here. Then Judge Ziba Trumpus, who participated eight times, once in the role of Senate President. But don't say it's irrelevant, let's say what these judges and judges did most of the time to violate human rights. The main violations were the following: equality before the law – Article 14; protection of personal freedom – Article 19; determination and duration of detention; equal protection of rights; right to a remedy; legal guarantees in criminal proceedings; prohibition of re-trial of the same matter; protection of privacy rights and personal rights; protection of the confidentiality of letters and other associations; Article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms – the right to a fair trial. Here I will give another example, mentioned by my colleague Gorenak in the position of our Group in the introduction, and I think it is important to draw attention to him once again, given that the Minister of Justice, who is not with us today, has obviously lied to the Committee on Justice. He said that, with regard to the right to life, this is Article 2 of the Convention and the most important convention right, I quote: "Slovenia has no infringement throughout the whole period." Does the Minister of State not know the cases well enough or have his professional associates not prepared enough to cut the situation, or has he simply silenced it on his own? But the fact is that in the case of Shilih, mentioned earlier, there was just a violation of Article 2 of the Convention, that is the right to life. The ECHR, i.e. the European Court of Human Rights, has unanimously ruled that Slovenia has violated Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. the right to life, due to the lack of effective legal procedures to determine the cause of death and responsibility. A respected minister who is not here today, of course, puts you absolutely on the line. Whether you consciously did it or not, it's another question, but the fact is, it puts you on a lie. This tragedy, which took place and then concluded at the European Court of Human Rights, was a literal calvary. They fought in different courts for over 20 years. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights gave its statement. If you allow me, we can also look at some human rights violations that have occurred in the Republic of Slovenia and are particularly linked to the authorities. If we look at the composition of the previous Anti-Corruption Commission, I mention this in particular because Mr Goran Klemenčič, the previous chairman of this commission, was Mr Klemenčič, and today he is the Minister of Justice, he probably won this place for the prize because he had caused the government to fall. But even when Minister Klemenčič caused the government to fall and in some way removed the political rival, made room for someone else, human rights were violated. There was a violation of human rights. I am not surprised now that the Minister cannot have an argument in today's meeting because he himself has violated human rights in the role of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. In the judiciary or in the judiciary, we also know other human rights violations that take place on the basis of mounted trials. Earlier, Patria had already been mentioned, who was timed right before the elections, so that a fair election game was disabled for political rivals. A fair election game. Colleagues and colleagues, it is right that we are all aware together that, in the last early elections, we unfortunately had this right, that is, an unfair election game that has also led to an unfairly elected government. The fact is that the leader of the opposition is allowed, which has now been dragged through three elections so that the party's position can be well and qualitatively represented. This has also been pointed out at European level. Let me just remind you of the largest party in the European Parliament that has made it clear that the Member States of the European Union must do everything they can to ensure that those countries that have not done so finally adopt the lustration laws. We are not talking about some vendetta here, but it is that if we want a fair judiciary, a just judiciary, then we must relieve ourselves of some of the backdrops of the past, which is crucial that we today have great problems, not only in justice, but also in the economic field. This is, of course, just one case that shows that human rights violations in justice are taking place and taking place. But as President of the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, we also receive a number of petitions on the Commission, which are directly linked to human rights violations in the field of justice. These are petitions relating to an unreasonable trial, to what the European Court of Human Rights points out; there is a lack of confidence in judicial decisions and the judiciary in general; here it is not too much to point out that more than 70% of Slovenian citizens do not trust in the justice system at all; petitions in the field of infringements in the exercise of judicial office. If we look at 2014 alone, I have made one such brief analysis of the petitions we receive in the National Assembly, which are related to human rights violations in the case of justice. In 2014, we received a large number of petitions relating to ineffective justice. Most of these concerned the work of the courts. The applicants of these complaints have most often said that the courts decide too slowly and that is why today we have the result of the ECHR, where in 323 cases, the court finds that in 304 cases at least one human rights violation occurred. These are data that I find very disturbing and rather alarming. Some of the applications also referred to the Constitutional Court, which did not accept the case. Some applications for the work of lawyers that are not supposed to represent a client in accordance with professional ethics, where we are, of course, back to those sanctions that I spoke about earlier. The applications then also referred to the ineffective work of the prosecution and, of course, to justice in general, where an investor expressed dissatisfaction with the state of justice. All these petitions we receive on the Human Rights Commission, including this latest report from the European Court of Human Rights and also all the reports submitted by the European Commission, show how right we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, we are the only party in this political space with a number of small exceptions, not only since 2008, but, more importantly, we point to the poor functioning of the justice system, to inefficiency and to how it is necessary to ensure greater integrity of the justice system, and in particular to restore people's confidence in the justice system. According to Dr. Sturm's study on human rights violations, we can see in judicial proceedings that as many as 801 members of the judiciary violated human rights. Trust in the justice system, where I have already said that more than 72% of citizens do not trust in the justice system, and otherwise trust in the justice system in our country is the lowest compared to the rest of the European Union. It is also similar in the effectiveness of the courts that I am not talking about having the highest number of judges per 100,000 people among the Member States of the European Union, but, interestingly, performance on the other hand is one of the lowest. Madam Secretary of State, as I cannot ask the Minister, please explain why this is such a breakthrough. Most of the judges, the lowest perpetuity. What's the big deal? Just a while ago, because of all these segments that I have listed, I have asked the Minister of Justice how he will systematically regulate the liability of judges when they violate human rights in judicial proceedings. Do you know what the distinguished minister said to me? "I cannot agree that the Slovenian judiciary is the biggest human rights violator in this country." This is a quote from the minister who answered my question about how he will ensure that judges who violated human rights will be responsible for this. This was the response of the Minister, who is being lied to again for the second time by the European Court of Human Rights with his report and a clear analysis of the situation. Not only are we somewhere in the golden middle after human rights have been violated, but we are first in human rights violations. From the review of the work of the European Court of Human Rights, I have already explained in the introduction that the analysis was carried out from 1959 to 2014 – that Slovenia, which has been a member of the European Court of Human Rights since 1993, has been sentenced to as many as 94% of the cases. You can relativize numbers, you can hide from them, you can justify justice, you can speak and protect them, but the numbers are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When I looked at some documentation for today's extraordinary session, I have to admit, I have always wondered what my argument is, that at least colleagues and colleagues will understand what I want to say to you in my own debate about the situation in the Slovenian judicial system and what my colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party want to say to you, as well as to my colleague Dobovšek and many intellectuals at home and abroad, many top-level lawyers who have studied in the most elite law schools in the world, over the last few years. I'll come from a basic document. Slovenia became a country on the basis of three basic documents on 25 June 1991, the Assembly adopted three basic documents of that country. One of these documents is the Basic Constitutional Charter, then the Declaration of Independence and the then Constitutional Law. I will try once again to quote part of one of the documents that says that the Slovenian Assembly adopted, on 25 June, the independent documents that made Slovenia an independent and independent state. The fundamental acts of independence were the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This basic constitutional charter, respected colleagues and colleagues, states: "According to the will of the Slovenian people and the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, expressed in the plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 December 1990, taking into account the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has been a state of law since then and has exercised only part of its sovereign rights in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in the fact that the SFRJ does not act as a legally regulated state and is in grave violation of human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces" and so on. We have therefore set up this country based on the fact that we have lived in a totalitarian regime where human rights have been massively violated, in which more than 650 thousand people have been killed in the first few years, in which some 3 million people have gone through the various processes that have had political omens. Based on these facts, which are facts, not a rumor in one of the inn debates, we have also appointed Slovenia as a state of our own. We were aware that we could be Slovenians as a nation anymore, that we were not part of this culture, that we were part of some medium European culture and that we could do much more. Right now, the second year is 25 years away from this document, we find the indisputable facts that this part has failed. This is mainly the case with the European institutions. The first lie today is related to the report of the court previously presented by colleague Gorenak. It contains the European Court of Human Rights, which is this document. It does not say that it is an NGO, it says that it is a document issued by the European Court of Human Rights. The second part of the document, which could be tracked yesterday by people, citizens of Slovenia and beyond, speaks of the economic freedom of the world in 2015, where Slovenia, according to economic freedom, landed in 111th place, together with Nigeria and China. In particular, in the area of independence of the judiciary, we have fallen from score 7.14, scores from 1 to 10, to a score of 2.83%. This is a new document that came to the public before this extraordinary meeting was actually announced. This economic freedom speaks for the independence of the judiciary. It is important for citizens and citizens, because it also restricts economic freedom, limits foreign investment in Slovenia, limits confidence in Slovenia as a legal state, limits the quality of their lives, their children in the future. It also limits the individual’s life expectancy, since in countries where economic freedom is not so high, the individual’s life expectancy is about 63 years, and in countries with the greatest economic freedom, the individual’s life expectancy is over 80 years. This concerns every individual of our country. What is important is to stress, because the debate has gone on at least on the part of the representatives of the Government in two spheres, so that we have good practices in the Slovenian justice system, I would like to know, Mrs State Secretary, who are just successful practices at the point of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. That's today's point. Today's item is not an electronic land book that does not have human fundamental freedoms and the rights of any relationship. The next lie that was told today. We can see this by those who have studied a little more, including the technique, and we have had mathematics one, two and three at higher levels, and this is statistical deception. This statistical deceiving that San Marino and Liechtenstein are ahead of us. We are talking about a country that has two million inhabitants, we have, of course, half a million other Slovenians who have left the country because of their lack of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms – some of them, not all of them – so half a million Slovenians live outside the country. So we have 2.5 million people. Since we are a member of the European Union and NATO, we are compared to the states of San Marino and Liechtenstein. As my colleague Gorenak said, both countries have a population at the level of a larger local community, if you say something plastic. We're talking about countries with 31 000 inhabitants, Liechtenstein 36,000 inhabitants. They compare us with a country eight times or ten times smaller than Slovenia, but they do not compare us with a country with a million people, such as Austria, which has 8 million, or similar, and this side is also a total statistical fraud by the Government. The next story is that the structural problem of the Slovenian judiciary must be strongly rejected, as the Secretary of State said today. I will say with a number of arguments that we have just a structural problem, that it is a link between the Slovenian educational legal system and the judiciary, which is now some kind of mirror image. I'm not talking about today's legal sciences, I'm talking about everything that's been going on for years and years. If we are once again aware of the fact that in the totalitarian regime after the war, people who did not have any legal education could have been tried, that a number of judges were not only killed and expelled, but those who remained were engaged in purely normal legal professions that had nothing to do with the judicial system. It was a total political judicial system and we have never come out of this political judicial system. Never. The next fact to be stressed is, as a colleague from New Slovenia said today, that the system of justice is self-sufficient, that there is no self-reflection, no elimination of the bad from the system, no victory for what you see in every lemonade American film, where in the end, good or good wins over the bad. There is not what must be in every institution. If we once said that we would like to have another Switzerland, respected colleagues and colleagues, how should we have Switzerland, if none of the institutions of this country, except the Slovenian Army, which operates under all international standards at the highest level and also has the trust of people at the highest level, does not work as Switzerland. How will we become Switzerland according to the state, public administration, according to the Slovenian banking system or the Slovenian chief regulator in the field of banks, according to the judicial system that has landed at the lowest point by all indicators with an estimate of 2.83 after this statistics? How will we become Switzerland if we do not make order in institutions representing the country? How we will make order as far as the judiciary is concerned, in the sphere of confidence in the judicial system, in the sphere of trust in the rule of law, in the sphere of the so-called free economic state, which also has an omen that people trust in it. Not only Slovenians and Slovenians, but also foreign citizens who have any business idea of investing in such a country – we are of course talking about legal security. So this is not the case, we do not know this in Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, you're all a little bit critical, but you're not hoping to open up and say we have a catastrophic judicial system. What can I tell you? The ambition of all of us, as politicians, to show our ambitions to have one of the best small countries in the world, to really want another Switzerland. I miss this ambition in the National Assembly. How will economists achieve the ultimate results, how will people believe us if we ourselves do not have this ambition if we do not have some high goals? The judicial system shows how low ambition is in this area, in the area of legal certainty and respect for human rights. I am one of the few that I have talked about in recent years, including the impartiality of a country's judicial system. I talked about what the Councils of European Prosecutors and Judges signed in 2009 with us in Slovenia, the so-called Bordeaux Declaration, which speaks of the impartiality of prosecutors and judges. In the Patria process, a top constitutional lawyer, whose path went from the Sorbonne to Yale of Paris, is now a regular professor of constitutional law at Boston College, Dr. Vlad Peru, who is quite unknown to the Slovenes who have applied for this Bordeaux Declaration. I would like to quote some of the articles of this Bordeaux Declaration, which are very important, right in the stage of what colleague Dobovšek said today, i.e. the appearance of the impartiality of the Slovenian judicial system. Article 1 of the Bordeaux Declaration states: "It is in the interests of society that the rule of law is ensured by the fair, impartial and effective functioning of the judicial system. Prosecutors and judges must ensure, at all stages of the proceedings, that individual rights and freedoms are guaranteed and that public order is protected. This includes full respect for the rights of defendants and victims." Article 36: "The actions and behaviour of the Attorney General and the Judge shall not raise doubts about their objectivity and impartiality." Article 40: "Judges and state prosecutors should refrain from any act and conduct that could undermine confidence in their independence and impartiality. The cases assigned to them must be dealt with with with with due diligence, within reasonable time limits, objectively and impartially." Article 41: "State prosecutors must refrain from public comments and statements in the media which may give rise to direct or indirect pressure on the court to take a decision." Article 69: "It is essential for a democratic society that courts enjoy public confidence." Article 72: "The media, as well as the judges and state prosecutors, must respect fundamental principles such as the presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial, the right to a private life of persons" and so on. These are the basic articles of the Bordeaux Declaration signed in 2009 by the Council of Europe, European Judges and Prosecutors, even in Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues. On this basis, let me compare impartiality, feeling, the appearance of impartiality, especially the appearance of impartiality, in the case of Patricia. If we leave behind all the substantive causes, arguments and counter arguments, what do the media today report on Patria? The presumption of innocence is spoken of, say, the Bordeaux Declaration. Does this presumption of innocence today, when the process is outdated, take this into account? What argument does the Minister have, who is even a master of law? What arguments does he have in this case? Every statement they make, they want to make a political verdict if they don't prove their innocence. Not that he wasn't proved by the man who sued him, but that the victim didn't prove her innocence. The Slovenian judicial system made Janez Janša something special, namely, that the man was a two-time political prisoner. In the first case in 1988, no doubt, and in the second case, the status of political prisoner in last year was also assigned to him along with a petition which went to the European institutions, one of the largest political prisoners in the field of Yugoslavia at all times. As you know, last year in Slovenia, Adem Demaçi, who was a 28-year political prisoner, was even nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize and won the Sahara Prize in the field of human rights. Here was Vice Vukojevic, a former constitutional judge, a longtime political prisoner, as well as the winner of the Amnesty International Prize as a political prisoner of conscience. He was also Vladimir Sheks, longtime president of the Croatian Parliament, also a political prisoner. Marko Veselica, 18 years of political prisoner, was also the winner of the Amnesty International Prize for Prisoner of Conscience. Ante Kovacevic, philosopher, 6 years of political prisoner, also the winner of the Amnesty International Human Rights Award. Here was the Bosnian writer Dr. Dzemaludin Latić, as a Muslim, respected doctor of science, as well as a political prisoner in the Sarajevo political process. Let us not forget to mention Professor Zvonimir Šeparović, who is in fact also the bearer of a special so-called world branch that speaks of victimology, therefore knows about victims. And so on. Hence, people who are intellectuals who themselves have given up processes of disregard for human rights throughout their whole life period have come to their attention, and have never been reverent in their bloodstains. They've always stood as human beings, they've survived despite being victims, just like Jože Pučnik used to be with us. They were victims, but they always had their dignity, they didn't want to give it back in their own way to all these bloodbaths. But just a whole series of these judges, not only in the field of Slovenia, but also in all countries, remained in their positions. Not to mention the case we found in the 60s Archive of the Republic of Slovenia when, for example, the State Security Service reported a case where the judge, on the other hand, was on the other hand a state prosecutor and on the third hand even a lawyer, and all three of them had agreed that a lawyer would do anything to a victim who was not guilty of anything that was a political victim, all the mistakes for winning the prosecutor in this trial and that he would receive a long-term prison sentence. I mean, you didn't have any legal means in the former system to somehow get rid of this system, and in the Republic of Slovenia we repeated this story. Today this is not the story of some Patria process, today is the story of these other people who have no money for lawyers who have no money to prove their innocence, who have lost their processes and for whom foreign institutions prove to us that we are in mass violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Today, you are relativizing all of this, at least some, and you are saying that it is minor matters and that this can be corrected by some minor reforms. You can't. At one time, the study of the economy was also the subject of Organizational Culture. When you have those results, you know you have to expose it. That kind of thing comes out to put people there or leave at least that part of the people who turned out to be good. Today we are talking about helping good judges as well as good prosecutors when we are also talking about the prosecutor's sphere. He must win well over the wicked. Finally, I can tell you a case that is happening to former Mayor Kangler, where special methods and means as an on-call judge confirmed and signed by a man who was essentially accompanied by Kangler as a member of the National Assembly, who worked in Owl, previously worked in the former Udba or the State Security Service, committed massive human rights violations and is today a judge of the Maribor District Court. And this man signed the earrings to Kangler, despite the fact that colleague Jerovšek and colleague Moga, who was never a great sympathizer of the Slovenian Democratic Party, took a public oath and also signed a charter with the notary that he was acting and that the judge should be immediately expelled, just in view of the impartiality of the courts. And he didn't do it. The new process is currently taking place in Maribor, which is a political process. Next story. Jože Pučnik has, at least until now, been considered a visionary who is undoubtedly the father of this country. In March 1994, Jože Pučnik, together with the other signatories, submitted an amendment to the Law on Judicial Service. This is the amendment of Article 101, which reads as follows: "The judges who participated in political proceedings with which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated by the judgment cannot be extended after their term of office has expired." Then there's the whole explanation. I'll put the sheet on Twitter today so people can see. So Jože Pučnik is not only the father of this country, who was the visionary who saw this country, who, as a political prisoner, had never avenged its bloodstains, from now on or after all these documents, after all these stages where we have the judicial system today, we can say that he was also a prophet. He knew what would happen if these judges continued their journey to a modern Slovenian country or European state as judges in a modern country. People, respected colleagues, talk more about the relationship between East and West Germany, we are talking about the lustration of East German judges. Not only can those who were in STASI never again be judges, they can never operate in some political spheres, someone who was a member of the former political body can not even act as a sports official in the current Germany. Former STASI members cannot even be sports officials, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is about some culture. This is about the appearance of a serious European country. The Secretary of State was talking about the Lukend case, you were talking about the German judge Doukoff, who had at least once reviewed the Slovenian judicial system. Let me wrap up my debate today somehow with a quote written in one of the judicatures of this particular court which issued this decision. This court once wrote: "Any citizen and citizen who will be brought before Slovenian courts in Slovenia has a great opportunity to have their human rights and fundamental freedoms violated. This was written in the caselaw of this court, which we are discussing today. I think this sentence tells us everything. To reflect on all those who will continue to debate behind me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I've got a few things coming up, but I'm gonna go ahead and start with Mr. Gorenak. First of all, one procedural thing, that's what I call it, your statement or execution, when it was said that I'm kind of a cheerleader because I'm coming out of court. We hold this debate several times, otherwise our duels are purely constructive and correct. In this regard, I would like to say that I have never had a problem, as you know, when we reasoned and advocated solutions that the judiciary did not fully appreciate. So I speak quite objectively. In my introduction, I just wanted to point out that the numbers show that the situation is improving, the systemic catastrophe, if I may say so, is no longer, but it is a fact, and I also said that the accelerations, as I have called them, are not entirely appropriate, because we still have some very critical areas, such as the area of real estate execution. The situation is therefore improving, but not in all areas and not everywhere fast enough. That's all. But I can't agree that everything is bad and that it's worse. In this context, I also mentioned the land book project, only as an example of a practice recognised by the foreign as a good approach. So much for what branches of authority I come from. Now for more substantive things. One of them is the finding, or statement by Mr Gorenak, that, in addition to 256 cases where a violation of Article 6 of the Convention has been found, the length of the proceedings or the trial in unreasonable time, Slovenia still has 262 cases, where it is clear that we do not have the right to an effective remedy. Here I want to explain that this is essentially about the same things. Where the State is recognised to have been for too long, it shall also be informed that it has not provided an effective remedy. So it's not 256 plus 262, but it's the same bunch of things. So much for an explanation. Now what Mr Gorenak has been exposed to in the introductory debate is particularly important to me, and this is the Shilih issue. At the Ministry, we have carefully read Mrs Šilih's writing, and such a tragedy is sincerely and profoundly imagined, but in the light of this debate I would like to explain the following. Our data, that is, our graphs, which were part of the government material that was dealt with on the Justice Committee, are not misleading and are not lying. I'll tell you why. In the Shilih case, Slovenia has been marked, judged or, in whatever way you would like to say, a procedural violation of Article 2 of the Convention, that is the right to life. It was found that an effective investigation was not provided. That is why this matter is being handled on the ECHR website between cases where there is no effective investigation, between such infringements, and here Slovenia has two infringements. This is also the case in our graph 15, in the case of Shilih 2007-2009. What am I trying to say? The Court did not find that the right to life was violated, the very right as such. Now I'm going to give an example, not a concrete case, but in general, to say that someone died in prison because of inadequate conditions could be an example of such a violation. Therefore, no substantive problem has been identified, since no court judgment has been reached, it has been found that no or effective investigation has been carried out in the alleged infringement of the right to life. Therefore, this matter is not among the substantive violations, it is not among the violations of the right to life, but, as it is said, there is no effective investigation between those alleged. This also seems particularly important to me, as it is said, because of the writing of a lady who specifically draws attention to this matter. We didn't miss it, but it's classified, as I explained. With regard to Mr Gorenak and his thesis that human rights violations in Slovenia are still a major problem – thesis was then repeated several times and there is also the basic red thread of today's debate – I would like to say that at the Ministry of Justice we are certainly aware that there is still a lot to be done in the field of human rights in this country and that we have also taken an intensive approach to the HELP project of the Council of Europe. This project, in which many countries are involved, seeks to educate both the regular judiciary and, say, the centres for social work, in short, the different social systems and subsystems, about the importance and enforcement of human rights. We are actively implementing this project. All judicial education and education of other judicial officials will also include and highlight the human rights and practices of the European Court of Human Rights. I can say that the Council of Europe has already particularly commended us, if I may say so, this is our approach that has somehow been positively assessed. Once again, I will refer to my introductory statement, the situation is improving, but we know that it is not flourishing everywhere, if I can be so a little spring, and that we are also looking for other solutions and approaches to how the situation can be further improved. One of them is the HELP project. Mrs Irgle is not here right now, but I believe she's listening because I'm going to continue with her. First of all, I would like to explain to her that there is no minister today because he is on a regional visit to the government. Well, she just walked in. There's no minister because he's on a regional government visit, so I represent him. I believe we'd rather talk to him, but in accordance with the powers of the Secretary of State, I can represent him in full blood. Next time, maybe he'll be here and I can be somewhere else. This absence is the reason why the Minister is not here today. Mrs Irgle spoke a lot about the President of the Supreme Court. I'm not going to go into this debate here. I'll just say it's called the National Assembly and not the Government. So much for the subject. However, when you spoke about those cases of specific judges and the number of human rights violations attributed to each of them, I would like to say that if I listened and heard them correctly, they were all listed as supreme judges, i.e. judges who are judges in the Senate. We probably don't have the data, or we'd have a hard time having it, how a particular judge actually voted. You know this experience, you too may be overvoted, although you may have a different opinion on a proposal. If you're on trial in the Senate, you're the victim of most of this senate. Only this thought of yours. As regards the Shilih case, my answer is the same as I gave to Mr Gorenak. I wanted to tell you something else, Mrs. Irgle, about the minister's thesis. You quoted the minister as saying that the biggest violation of rights is not a regular judiciary, so somehow. I agree with this thesis, and I think Mrs Murgel has been thinking about it. Now I am going to get a little attached here to Judge Boštjan M. Zupančič, who has recently come to visit the Ministry on the analysis that we are considering today. He himself said that Slovenia's only real problem before the European Court was deleted, that it was a real shame to use his words. In this sense, I also understand the Minister's thesis that the biggest human rights offender is not a regular court because, with the case of deleted or savers, if you want, they had nothing, but in this country someone else is probably responsible for these two matters. You also mentioned Mr Doukoff, and this is interesting, without wanting to develop something in particular. A co-worker from the Ministry of Justice just visited him last weekend. We also agree that he may visit this year to exchange views and opinions again. It was interesting that he said that he had to correct some of his views a little years ago. At that time, his thesis was based on the fact that the German judiciary had no judicial backlog. Now he was rectified here and he said that he was coming out of himself and his closets when he opened the door and looked at other courts, he saw that the German judiciary also had problems and backlogs. Now I wanted to do the next thing, not just look at the right side. Or I'll have some more. Mrs. Ive Dimic is not here right now. I agree with her. We have talked about this once before, the substantively poor and poorly reasoned judgments. There's nothing to add here. I am pleased, I have also told you once, that the Supreme Court has set up a project to improve the quality of court decisions this year, even in the sense that the language of those people and citizens would be more friendly. I know that this project is being implemented and I am not yet familiar with the concrete results. Next. Mrs Dimic also mentions the public publication of all decisions on the Court's website with the names and surnames of the judges. I can only agree here. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Institute of Joseph Stefan, is running a project that is supposed to be a step towards the publication of judgments on websites or a further step towards proactive openness of the judiciary. With regard to the public publication of labour statistics, I believe that these publications on the Court's websites already exist and at least in this part, as regards the operation of courts as a whole or the operation of units of the judiciary, but have already been quite open to the public. I would like to say to Mr Dobovsk that, even with one of his views, that every matter should be fully agreed only once through the pyramid of the judicial branch of power. We have written specifically in our reply to Mr Gorenak just recently that, let's say, in the working and social court, the appeal is not yet sufficiently implemented. The institutions are in law, but the higher courts are under-used and sometimes unwarranted – perhaps now I can say too much to the thumb – but they return too often to the first stage. In this light, we will also, when we open the Law of Justice this year, re-examine whether anything else needs to be sealed here, if I may say so, whether the legal tools are already fully appropriate to prevent this all too often characteristic and long-lasting ping pong between the first and second stages. So much for once. Thank you so much for once. Later if you have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Today we are considering the Proposal for a Recommendation on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on human rights violations from the Labour Review in 1959-2014 for the Republic of Slovenia. It should be said that the data is somewhat inaccurate. Not to say that this is the statistics of the European Court of Justice drawn up by the NGO RightsInfo and that not all data are included in this statistics. We have found or have been provided with the correct content of this data by the Ministry of Justice, and on the basis of these accurate data Slovenia is not in the first place in regard to human rights violations, but this is San Marino. We have already heard today that San Marino is a small country and that it is not comparable, but I do not think that this is the most reasonable objection, precisely because this data on human rights violations has been taken into account by thousands of people in the country. Regardless of the size of the country, the result of thousands of people is the same. On the basis of this analysis, it is found that Slovenia is second and that Liechtenstein is third, as we have heard today. Of course, we are not satisfied with this situation. It must indeed be said that our justice does not work in such a way as to protect all human rights equally, to reduce backlogs and that complaints against the European Court no longer have to be lodged. Our Secretary of State, Mrs Tina Brecelj, has just said that the data is that the situation is improving, and I am very happy if so. In relation to this recommendation, it should also be said that no negative judgment has been taken into account in this report, namely rejection of cases or dismissed cases, which also shows a slightly different situation. Let us see what these human rights violations in Slovenia are all about, which are so alarming. They apply mainly to the rights of trial within a reasonable time frame, and these cases took place mainly before 2006. The right to an effective remedy is also one of the most frequent violations. The largest number of human rights violations in Slovenia relates to deleted and foreign currency savers of the Ljubljana Bank, and we have heard a lot about this today. I do not think that justice is responsible for this, but this is primarily the responsibility of the policy that has taken such decisions. As I said before, with the situation in the judiciary, of course, we cannot be completely satisfied. The situation in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms should also be at a significantly higher level or significantly better in our country. On the Committee on Justice, we have considered this recommendation and the coalition Members have considered that the Republic of Slovenia is not a systematic human rights violator in the light of the findings of the European Court of Human Rights, as the proposaler wishes to do. We agreed that it would be good to have a broad debate on the state of the Slovenian judiciary based on an in-depth system analysis of the whole system. The Committee has therefore also adopted conclusions, at the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups, proposing to the Ministry of Justice the establishment of a system that will allow regular monitoring of the statistics of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights relating to the Republic of Slovenia, and recommends that the Government continue to take measures to strengthen the coordination of the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the effective representation of the Republic of Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights and also to educate and inform the judiciary in the field of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. As something has been said today regarding the consideration of this recommendation by the Ombudsman, I would like to say the following. With the Ombudsman, it is said that the data are, of course, eloquent, but without in-depth analysis, as I was just talking about, and only on the basis of the proportion of convictions, it is not possible to simply claim that Slovenia is among the greatest violators of fundamental human rights and freedoms. They also consider it obvious that the most numerous infringements are the systemic issue of the longevity of judicial proceedings, which has been unresolved in Slovenia for many years and has also encouraged the number of complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. As they add, we systematically resolved this issue in Slovenia by adopting the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay. On this basis, the number of complaints and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights concerning our country is falling significantly, as the Ombudsman says. But I'll finish with the next one. I believe that all branches of government, not only judicial but also enforcement and legislative, should strive to ensure that violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Slovenia are as low as possible. Of course, I would point to article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of human rights and fundamental freedoms or equality before the law, which I wish to be consistently respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u39	Ms Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I guess I'm not very lucky with microphones today, but maybe it'll go easier next time. It seems to me that, in particular in view of Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot's last debate and the previous debate by the Secretary of State, some information that we have not invented in the SDS should be restored, since we have not prepared this report, but that it has been prepared by the European Court of Human Rights, from 1959 to 2014. Here it is necessary to know that by the end of 2014, the European Court, honourable Mrs Porotat, had received more than 8 000 400 lawsuits from the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that there is something fundamentally wrong in Slovenian justice. In 323 cases, it was then decided. Of these, there were 304 cases where at least one violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms was found. With 148 cases of human rights violations found per million people, Slovenia is the first among European countries. You can hide your eyes from this, but these are the data that is real and clear. The European Court of Human Rights issued them in its special report. And unfortunately, I must say this, too, I am not pleased to hear that Slovenia is the first country to take the place among the European members for human rights violations. Furthermore, if we look at it, the Republic of Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of justice in the EU. For her, respected Mrs Porotat, there are only Greece, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia. But all these countries have an increasing trend in their degree of independence, and we have unfortunately a declining trend. I mentioned earlier that on one side we have the highest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, and that we have one of the lowest, if not the lowest. But, Madam Secretary of State, you haven't answered that question. You answered me why the minister wasn't here today, by the way, because he played basketball somewhere yesterday. That's what I heard, you didn't say that, but I hear from information that Mr. Minister played basketball yesterday, but today, when he should be here to discuss human rights violations in justice, he's not here. You answered that question, but you did not answer me how it is possible that we have the highest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants and the lowest number of dowry. That's the key problem. Content. Content. You have also not replied to me how it is possible that, until now, a criminal provision has never been applied that judges are responsible for errors, even though this criminal provision has been in force since 2008. You didn't answer that either. As for the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Masleša, I have talked about the fact that he has violated human rights more than 14 times in the current democratic system. He's broken them before, and that's what I said. I also said that the President of the Supreme Court cannot be the man who violated human rights in the previous regime. They don't know that anywhere in Europe, anywhere. That's not possible, Mrs. Popotat. [[advertising from the hall]] You can agree with me now, but why don't you say it out loud. You tell me that you agree, but you do not say clearly in the position of the Group of Members, that until we have clarified the basic elements, it is said that there can be no individuals in such situations who have gravely violated human rights in the previous system, then we have done nothing. We haven't moved a millimeter. And that's the problem. Not to mention the Attorney General, Mr. Bell Fisher. He also grossly violated human rights in the previous system because he condemned people for placing the candle in a place where innocently murdered people were. But today, perhaps for the prize, Dr. Bell Fisher is still the Attorney General. Even more, he acted corruptly in this democratic system, and the Minister of Justice, who is the greatest anti-corruption fighter, does not hope to say this publicly and say: "Dear Attorney General, it is high time that you leave this position." I know the minister can't do it legally, but he can call him, but he didn't. He didn't do it, even though he's the biggest fight for corruption. Allegedly the biggest anti-corruption fighter in this country. Dear Secretary of State. You asked what you had to do with the Branko Maslesche case, because it was the National Assembly that confirmed it. Yes, and who was the one who confirmed it in this national council? The former coalition, the coalition that has roots with the parties deep in the previous system and has already known why it confirmed this man's position, even though we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party – I remember well the night meetings, which were until three o'clock at night, even on the Mandate-Electorial Commission on this issue – clearly pointed out that this is unacceptable. It's unacceptable. But it was necessary to walk with your head through the wall, just to continue to protect the privileges of individuals and to accuse those who are political rivals without evidence. I'll say one more thing. For Branko Maslesha to become supreme judge, or President of the Supreme Court, we need to know that he was proposed by no one other than the current President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. At that time, Dr. Miro Cerar was the Vice-President of the Council of Justice and was absolutely in agreement with this appointment. That's a fact, that's a fact. That's a fact. It is true, however, that Dr. Aleš Zalar, the then Minister of Justice, formally put this into the National Assembly. And the case is closed. Then it is no wonder that we experience such a reaction by the Prime Minister to the Patricia case, which took place about four days ago. It's no wonder. Everything is clearly connected, people who can figure out what two plus two are, can see very quickly what the connections are. Not to mention other judges and judges, I mentioned some of them earlier. Consider the case of Mrs. Vesna Žalik. In the previous system, too, she has gravely violated human rights. Not to mention the infamous 133rd article on verbal delinquency and so on. But just this judge, you won't believe who she was judging – Janez Janša. Interesting. Why not someone who wasn't connected to a system that violated human rights back then? And I'm not saying that these people can't do this job, but they can't sit on the most responsible positions in the judiciary. That's insane. With this, as I hear today, they also agree in Desus, but they don't say it out loud. This is completely insane. These are political people in the highest positions of justice, flexible and remiss when something has to be done, and this is precisely in the judicial system, which should be the most independent of politics and should follow exclusively the truth and the search for justice in its decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I wouldn't talk about all that information. I have already said, honourable Mrs Eva Irgle, that the most human rights violations have been committed in the case of deleted persons, that was the most mass, that there are others, we have already heard, so I would not repeat them. But what you're saying now is that judges shouldn't judge anymore because they violated human rights once, now and I don't know when, I think when they go [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, but I think when it comes to such matters, it has to be established, it has to be proven. If that's what we're saying here, it's got to be said that he's been convicted of this day and this judgment thing and that we know that you can look at this source. Not like this, because it's really alarming and it's also an insult to people, a violation of their human rights. Because if you are not legally convicted, you are not guilty, and this must be taken into account. That's what bothers me. Let's just say Maslesha can't be this anymore because of that and because he's been convicted because he's been proven. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u43	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u44	I wouldn't talk about it right now, but I said it had to be a final judgment. Then it's clear, and then anyone can tell him that he did it. But that is what we are saying today, even though we do not have a basis for it, I do not think it is right to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. Dear Mrs Popot, I have also talked about integrity, because there is also some individual integrity, it is said that it is important that in such a situation there is a person who has integrity in terms of human rights violations from earlier times. That is why I say that in such a situation, individuals who have gravely violated human rights in the previous regime cannot sit in such a position. As for judgements and so on, I agree with you. But what happens? Nothing. Mr. Attorney General has been convicted. The Administrative Court has made it clear that he acted corruptly. Did something happen? The Administrative Court has made it clear that he acted corruptly. The Attorney General is still in his position. We are not talking about the Commission's findings on the prevention of corruption or other instances that have done so, but the Administrative Court has said so – Mr Zvonko Fischer has acted corruptly, but is still in his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u48	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Allow me to introduce you to something personal. Today, with my teeth clenched, I will sign an apology for Mr Klemenčič's absence, only because the Government is in Pomurje today, that is, in the region where I come from. I hope this visit will be very useful. In the future, it might be good for the opposition Members to be aware of the visit, perhaps even of where they are invited, but it is not a problem, not at all. However, I am pleased when I read in the online media that the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, has just opened a major traffic gain in Murski Sobota, this is a subway. This is a project launched by our coalition within the 2004-2008 mandate, in a very interesting way, by demonstrating its breadth and supporting the amendment of the opposition MP, Dr Mitje Slavinc of the LDS. And that's when these projects began to be implemented. So it's a pleasure. Now, on this very serious subject, we are talking about ensuring human rights and fundamental freedoms, particularly in judicial proceedings. Colleagues and colleagues, if any, then it is the National Assembly that is the institution and the place where we obviously need to discuss repeatedly the protection of human rights and also be very critical when unfortunately there are many cases of human rights violations. That is why we, the Members of the New Slovenia, contributed to today's debate our signatures so that today we can have this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Of course, I hope that today, and that in the future, we will be carefully heard by the executive branch of power and, of course, by the judicial branch of power. As a Slovenian Parliamentary, however, I am ashamed that we will not be able to do so today – even the Committee or the majority of the Committee has not been able to do so – to adopt at least one recommendation on the basis of a review of the work of the European Court of Human Rights in 1959-2014 for the Republic of Slovenia, which suggests that the Republic of Slovenia, which has been a member since 1993, has been sentenced to as much as 94% of all cases. 94% of all cases! Therefore, I cannot accept this inefficiency when we cannot write down a single line of recommendation, impose it as a task on the Government and also recommend the judiciary. Human rights are an extremely sensitive matter. These are the rights of all people. They are recorded in the General Declaration of Human Rights, in various conventions and also in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I recommend that, in the next reference to the National Assembly, every Member, in addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, also be given the General Declaration of Human Rights, as it is very short, four pages, maybe five pages, if there is a larger font. That would be very good for me. The recognition of the inherent dignity of all members of human society and their equal and inalienable rights is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. That is why on December 10, 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights because denial and beating of human rights led to the barbaric acts offensive to human conscience and because the creation of a world in which all humans would have freedom of speech and belief and in which they would not live in fear and want was known for the greatest efforts of mankind. What an important message, what deep words. We, colleagues and colleagues, are obliged to put these words into action to protect these human rights. Because I'm that old, I remember alive how the Republic of Slovenia came to be. That's what my colleague Breznik was talking about, so I'm not going to say it again. I have also printed from the Official Journal a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that there is something for us in this house that we remember that this house is the home of the Republic of Slovenia, and that we all know why the Republic of Slovenia was created or, more precisely, why, among other things, the Republic of Slovenia was created. Because we know the fact that the SFRY did not act as a legally regulated country and that human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces were severely violated. But today we're almost 25 years older and wondering where we are. That is why I say that we should obviously have several debates in the National Assembly, but those with conclusions, with recommendations adopted unanimously, to say exactly what we want and what we expect from the judiciary and the executive branch. When we are talking about the rule of law in general, I will remind again of the top of the economy at the end of 2012. Four demands were placed before us, before Slovenian politics. First of all, the rule of law. Of course, investment or investor needs legal protection. Why would foreign investors actually come to Slovenia? Why? Because she's beautiful? That's not enough. The investor must have legal protection for each euro invested, for every dollar invested. Let me go back to the violation of human rights. How did, colleagues and colleagues, violate human rights in the case of our citizen, Dark Kuzmić, who was demolished in Bohinj a while ago and brutally thrown on the road, not owned by him, but owned by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport? Today, we receive €270 of social assistance and it is on the road. And no one in this country asks him anything, they just don't care. I also repeat the question of colleague Iva Dimic as to the violation of human rights within the judicial system. Members of New Slovenia do not criticize everything on average. Today we should also apologize to all those who are our judicial system and deal with our general debates with injustice. They are also very good judges, and we cannot simply agree that we attribute human rights violations to the State. I don't agree to collect responsibility. I don't agree because we're the country. We have to assign responsibility to people with names and surnames and dots. It won't be any different. That is why I think and conclude that it would be good, but unfortunately the majority of the Committee has not been able to accept at least a small recommendation on what the European Court of Human Rights is reporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, to prepare Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! The area of human rights is extremely sensitive content. I hope we're all aware of this together. It is from this very context that we cannot care how this report of the European Court of Human Rights has been delivered. I believe that, despite the fact that this report can also be considered in certain segments as being excluded from the context and based on this, such and different assessments and also rankings of countries, which are likely to be held to some extent, this warning is extremely serious and should undoubtedly be given to this, particularly in the executive branch of the Authority. I agree that only something changes. In recent years, only something has changed. We can't say it's not like that. The laws that come to this area also mean a step forward, but also in the context of today's debates we can assess that there is still no prudent transformation. That is why a high level of mistrust, including in the legal system, is unfortunately also in other systems, but also in the legal system is still present. The legal system, as the speaker said, is also very important from various other aspects, including economic cooperation and activities and so on. In short, I believe that this report is an alarm that must ring to try to act more prudently. And here it is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to also give signals that can then trigger this situation a little bit better. There are many systemic problems, many of which have been mentioned, many concrete cases, including the lack of a good example in the integrity of the approach to addressing this issue. This is true, but I would mention only one matter that we may have overlooked to some extent, and this is also pointed out by the Ombudsman. This report also states that the Ombudsman or the representative of the Ombudsman has expressed the view that we need an independent and independent State institution for human rights, which will operate on the basis of the Paris Principles, and a national programme that will set out measures to address systemic problems and reduce the number of human rights violations and contribute to the enforcement of effective and accessible remedies. We also find these things today, we point to this, but all of this, at least in my opinion, is set aside as a debate over the debate, so that we can do it. In doing so, I clearly agree with those who say that at least a few binding, even general, decisions should be taken, as this effect may be even more questionable and controversial. Let me finish. Some of the added values may be difficult to contribute with our debates, but at least we must note that the area of human rights is undoubtedly one of the first elements that must be resolved in addressing systemic problems in the area of justice. At this point, I regret to say that this has not yet been the case, although this report may to some extent be unilateral, which we also have to admit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and representatives of the Ministry! Today we have a debate on the systemic problem of the judiciary on the agenda. Today, this is not a debate on a separate matter, but it is a debate on a systemic matter, a key issue, as regards the justice system as a whole, from political work to implementing work in practice, that is to say prosecutions and convictions. Unfortunately, Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič found no reason to participate in this debate on systemic problems in the judiciary in the National Assembly. Neither does the President of the Government, but they avoid these discussions in the National Assembly. The Minister's absence is justified solely by the international activity of the Minister. The exclusive international activity shall be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Minister Klemenčič does not have this excusable reason because you said he was on a visit to Pomurje, which means that Minister Klemenčič systematically avoided discussing this problem of human rights violations in the judiciary. What was the reason that led him to this? Is he afraid of discussing how to confront opinions? Is the reason why, according to the Court of Auditors, Minister Klemenčič violated his work when the President of the KPK Senate was 8 laws? Is the reason why the Supreme Court’s judgment annulled the PSC’s report on the assets of the SDS President precisely because of the violation of human rights. Is the reason for his absence to submit to the National Assembly a law for which, if we want to adopt it, we must first change the constitution, which is the law on systematic investigations? First, the constitutional arrangements in this country need to be changed if you want to adopt this law in coalition. This was suggested by Minister Klemenčič and accepted by the Government, who holds the chair of the constitutional expert and has allowed it. The absence of the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice at this point is therefore, if I look at these reasons, in a sense, reasonable in itself. Human rights cannot be discussed by someone who is systematically involved in these projects, through judicial decisions of the Court, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or by a decision of the main or key audit house in that country, namely the Court of Auditors. I think that's a problem. But we are discussing human rights, this is a chapter in our Constitution that is far more extensive by jumping. I think 51 of the 170 or 173 articles of the Constitution that we have are devoted to human rights. The competent minister and the President of the Government shall not respond to such a debate ignorantly. This is a scandal that can be afforded by someone I think it is. The scandal is also due to the fact that the Minister of Justice is acting as a constitutional lawyer, for which he was elected by the President of the Government, who was previously known to be burdened with violations of the laws, and later it was known that he was also burdened by human rights violations following the judgment of the Court. The President of the Government does not even shake to do anything in this area, it is said that a person who has violated laws, constitutions and human rights would be replaced so that he would no longer perform this function. The second issue, which I think is quite important, is the issue of two reports dealing with the situation of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. One was the report by Dr. Lovr Šturm, former President of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, which you discredited a few months ago in the National Assembly. The same was done by the minister, who put him under the table as if it were a work of a high school student, although it was a top constitutional expert and former President of the Constitutional Court. Without trying and documenting any claim or finding in Dr. Lovra Sturm’s report, which is not correct. You didn't even try so hard, but you swung your right left hand like you call it. Today we are discussing the report of the European Court of Human Rights and the debate is quite similar when we talked about Dr Šturm's report. Now I ask the Government, which relativizes the findings of the European Court of Human Rights: Have you sent any objection to this report to the European Court of Human Rights and warned them that some of the information in this ECHR report does not stand? Has the government done this? Is that what Minister Klemenčič prepared? A relevant debate on what is not the truth of this report, or the relativisation of the data contained in this report would make sense if the Government responded to this report against an independent European institution which has only systematically written these findings, as it has been and as it has been decided in the European Court of Human Rights. The government didn't do it. As we now use the data contained in this report, the plasma of comments, different findings, interpretations and so forth, which the Government is affording, without one single sentence warning the European Court of Human Rights that this report does not apply to Slovenia, Bosnia and the others. You're all talking about the unknown problem deleted here. Slovenia has emerged from Yugoslavia or has seceded in the far most democratic and human way. There were no slaughters, no pestilences, no arsons, no exodus. All other Yugoslav countries from the former Yugoslavia have experienced this and no one reaches the knees of Slovenia as regards human rights violations. You are saying that these violations in Slovenia were due to Slovenia's secession from the former country. Do you think that there is less human rights violations in Bosnia as regards the 1991 events, that there are fewer in Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro and elsewhere? Do you find that credible? This is only possible if you have made an explicit effort to achieve this chapter at this European level. However, Slovenia is not comparable to any Yugoslav Balkan country in terms of human rights violations with none. Everywhere, there have been higher and worse problems of human rights violations, shootings, murders, arsons, looting and so on. So these explanations of yours are actually very, very strange. That these violations of human rights in some way have domestic rights in governments governed by the left option, one is not surprised because if we look at Minister Klemenčič's statement at the end of the procedure on Patria or the statement by Prime Minister Mir Cerar, it is then even project-driven and cemented that it can be seen in some cases as well in the final proceedings. That's just insane. I must point out that, as far as justice and human rights are concerned, there is very little chance that you will do anything systematic and correct in this area in the direction of improvement in the political field, that is to say in the drafting of laws and in the implementation, that is to say in ensuring the correctness of procedures and accountability in these procedures. There's no way. Even here we had a political attempt a few months ago to deprive someone of their mandate, and the Constitutional Court dropped this case. But this process took place consciously in the National Assembly and with the actors who are recorded in the debates and in the votes, and no one has taken any action against these violations, nor has he made an apology. This means that you have a very big problem with the debate on human rights because you are actively involved in procedures against persons, as politicians, as legal experts or as anything else. The same applies to the Government because government officials in these proceedings have also expressed their opinion, whether it is the President of the Government, the Minister of Justice or someone else. Unfortunately, this coalition with the Government at the helm does not have enough self-criticism to support a single benevolent decision that the Government will do its utmost to improve the situation in this area. Even such a decision, roughly as it is written down, is not in a position to support, so you do not support improvements in the protection of human rights in the procedures that are being decided on, and this is in the area of justice. Colleagues have said that human rights are the one that is inseparable. If the government doesn't want to do anything in this area, it's a serious problem. However, the additional problem of this country is that we have a Ombudsman who does not defend individual human rights, but the state institutions that have caused human rights violations, and that we have systematically, practically, since the first or almost first guardian. As soon as we come to the area of protecting someone from an institution that did not act as it should, it is said that it has violated human rights, the Ombudsman will always be placed in a position that they do not know that they do not respond, that they do not come to the meeting, that they do not comment. But if they do, they stand up for the institution that caused this, which is incomprehensible and inexplicable. We don't have a guardian of the rule of law institutions. We have the Guardian of Human Rights. And the Ombudsman certainly does not perform his role in this mandate, both with regard to the responses he is causing, with non-response or with nothing. Unfortunately, in this coalition, you are not in a position to support any of the recommendations that we have proposed in order to improve the situation in this area. In fact, I think that this is one of the main problems that the issue in other areas does not move completely anywhere, because everything is judged solely as we see it from these cases. So if it is ours, there are extreme ratings, if anyone else is involved, but it has to be submerged as much as possible, regardless of what is written in the Constitution or laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! John Locke has already written that law does not mean the abolition or limitation of freedom, but it is the right to maintain and extend freedom. Maybe that's true of some liberal democratic systems. This certainly does not apply to socialism, to countries with socialist regimes, and thus some countries that have come out of this socialist system are clearly in difficulty. The report before us, which, of course, was prepared impartially by the ECHR, is the reason why citizens and citizens in our country, for the first time, cannot trust justice, secondly, nor can they trust justice. How could someone trust someone who, let's say, violated human rights seven times in just one year and nothing happened to him and he's a judge? Do you imagine that someone in one company is going to expose the local company Marmor Hotavlje, where they make products for luxury ships worth more than 100,000 euros, so that one of the employees there, let's say in one year, destroys or otherwise makes a mistake on five counters worth about 50, 100,000 euros. Would he know anything on his salary? Would you still be busy? But these people who deal with life dealing with things that affect one’s life obviously do not get hurt. Mag. Rudy Stravs, judge, violated human rights 11 times. Judge Jože Petrič 11 times, of which 5 times in two years. Judge Peter Hauptman, 10 times. Judge Irena Badovinac-White 16 times, of which only one year 7 times. Not to talk about mag. Nini Betetto, who has violated the Constitution five times. But nothing happens to them. They're still where they are. They're not responsible. Perhaps this is also the reason that in Slovenia the trials are not public, that we do not have pictures of judges, that we do not know who judges. They're on behalf of the people, and yet we don't know who these people are. Even if they had pictures of them, no one would probably recognize them on the road, because I am sure that they walk on the roads with their heads down because they are not and cannot be proud. Trust in justice cannot even arouse the Minister of Justice, who is not here today. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, who in his report is the main actor of the fall of the Janša government. Even the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masles, cannot inspire confidence in justice. Not only because the notary was certified that he said that Janez Janša had to "fuck" while he was judging him, but also because we know what he was doing in the past and how many times he violated human rights in Slovenia. He can't even trust Slovenian justice to arouse Zvonko Fischer, suspected or found to be obviously corrupt. No one says anything, so you say you won't interfere, but when someone makes another mistake, we're loud. Also interesting was the broadcast, where the word also applied to Prosecutor Ferlinz, who is the prosecutor in the case of Patria. On RTV Slovenia, in the Witnesses, his former mentor, Mrs Vera Mejak, said that when Ferlin was her intern, she had never seen such a fool in his life that he was unable to do anything and said it on specific occasions. But this gentleman is the prosecutor there. That is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed these recommendations based on this report, which states that such a situation in the judiciary threatens the rule of law, that the National Assembly notes that the political abuses of law and justice have a full impact on democracy in the Republic of Slovenia. The witnesses were the last elections when, with the help of the judiciary, one of the parties' candidates was prevented, that's what our president says, so that the other party won. For me, such elections are not fair when the judiciary is abused in this way. We also recommend that "it be examined and prepared a plan of measures to remedy or substantially reduce violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings," but you are obviously not for that either. SMC had before the elections in the Moto programme for the rule of law that people must regain confidence, and thus you also acknowledged that something was wrong with our legal country because you usually put into the political agenda those things that are not, those things that you want to achieve and for which you will try to achieve them within your mandate. The rule of law was your motto, and you also admitted that there was something wrong with our country of law. Unfortunately, after one year we find that things have not changed in this area. However, we hope that you will come up with concrete proposals, not only with some beautiful corrections, such as the previous package of three measures by the Ministry, and we will be happy to support them. However, the fact is that these judges and judges must be held accountable if, in the private sector, everyone is responsible for making a mistake, either for being wrongfully dismissed or for being responsible for the property, that is to say, something is being ripped away from his salary. These people are nothing. Let him tear himself from their wages. Personally, I believe that the money paid by Slovenia for the correction of injustices, i.e. the penalties we pay, should go from the amount of wages paid for judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I personally welcome today's debate, especially because it touches on very important and very sensitive topics. I believe that the report we are discussing today does not reflect the real situation in the field of human rights, particularly because the methodology on which this report is based is based mainly on the number of violations in relation to the number of inhabitants, on which the overall report builds on its results. I agree that there are still many challenges to be done in the field of human rights. However, in order to be able to engage in a thorough debate on this and to be able to properly discuss it, we need a truly in-depth analysis and analysis that will not only take account of the number of violations per population, but also of other data, which will thus allow statistics to be obtained and analysed for such a fundamental debate. Then it will also be easier to talk about the results and compare them. It is precisely this poor methodology that we have discussed and highlighted when we meet with the European Commissioner for Justice. We have pointed out that the methodology is inadequate, that it does not allow comparison between individual countries and that this base, i.e. only infringements on the number of inhabitants, is insufficient to truly compare data with one another and to come to some appropriate and correct conclusions. While we are talking about this report, we cannot, of course, go beyond the fact that the main violations covered are cases from the period before 2006, which are almost exclusively linked to the right to a trial without undue delay. I fully agree with the fact that Slovenia had a systemic problem of judicial backlogs, which, in some way, had been properly addressed and had also been properly dealt with when it had actually accepted and joined the Lukenda project, precisely because of the reduction of these arrears and the provision of effective judicial protection. And the result was that after 2006 and especially after 2010, the result was significantly improved, with a drastic reduction in individual cases. In order not only to rely on statistics and inadequacy, it is also important to say that Slovenia, in respect of respect for human rights and also in respect of the enforcement of judgments in a not-too-enviable position or in some segments, cannot really be over-appreciated. I believe that Slovenia of the European Court of Human Rights does not take it seriously enough, however, to take it seriously when we have to implement the judgments of this Court, not when it comes to the implementation of recommendations, or when it is necessary to defend Slovenian interests properly. So here is the emphasis on the need to resolve things and that there is still a lot to be done in this area. This, of course, refers to the State's defence, which must certainly improve representation before the European Court of Human Rights. We also need to improve the training of judges in this area who deal with individual cases and to raise the quality. I think we still have a lot to do here. Of course, on the other hand, there is much to be done. Even in the debate, I heard you say that we haven't done anything systematic, that we're just talking about what needs to be done, but we're not doing anything. Of course, this could not be exactly agreed, for in December 2014 the Law on State Administration was amended, on the basis of which, if we are more precise, a body will be organised to organise the enforcement of decisions of the European Court of Justice, a body which will deal specifically with human rights issues. Recently, the ZIKS has been amended, we have had a number of judicial legislation before the parliamentary holidays, and this amendment of ZIKS will also help to improve prison conditions, to meet these requirements in the recommendations of human rights and, of course, also in the initial phase of the construction of the prison in Ljubljana, which will also contribute to improving the situation of respect for human rights. It is true, however, that the results of this work cannot be reflected in this report. These results will only be seen in future reports coming and to be kept on the table. So I think we still have to say here that a few things have been done. We are also participating in the project, as ministry representatives have already said, to improve human rights education and quality, which is also welcome. I wish and hope that all these steps will be truly visible then in the next report and will actually contribute to much better results. But there was only one thing I wanted to point out. Many speakers have raised the issue of trust before me. I, too, agree at this point that trust is certainly too small. Trust isn't what you want it to be. But when we talk about trust, we must not overlook that on the basis of this report Professor Dr. Sturm, who also spoke about this low level of trust and many violations, the Supreme Court published a chart on the website showing how it grows and how trust falls and what it depends on. In doing so, of course, it must be said that trust or result is based primarily on perception data, which means that not only persons involved in judicial proceedings have always been asked, but everyone else has. So also those who may be officials who have such a different attitude toward it. In doing so, we could say that the question is whether we covered the right data. However, the result is that trust is influenced not only by what you said but also by many other factors. Among them are factors outside the judiciary, which is very important. I'm thinking mostly about the media here. If we look at this, the graph also shows that when efficiency was the lowest, the worst, that trust was incredibly high. At the time when the effectiveness of the judiciary increased, however, this confidence fell. Very interesting, eloquent. So the question remains, because everyone can interpret the graph in one way or another, of course it is a matter of our interpretation. True, though, it is our job to strengthen that trust and to work together to make it bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, there are two different continents in this Chamber, at least as regards the perception or understanding of this report of the European Court of Human Rights. One of the European Court's conclusions is that you do not believe or answer to the methodology, if it is not comparable and that we cannot make such a literal reference, the other think differently. I personally believe that such reports go hand in hand with a great deal of faith and knowledge. Before such reports, we have already covered our eyes in the past, the consequences have been known, and I am afraid we are sealing them today. Instead of putting our heads in the sand, quick and decisive action is needed. This is also recalled by the Ombudsman. An independent institution such as the European Court of Human Rights is going to believe and, as far as we can, we need to take measures to protect human rights, because we have already been able to identify the problems arising from such things through the debate. First of all, the problem of general mistrust in our justice system. This is a problem and that this is the problem that our justice system is a problem, this report also shows. Unfortunately, there are no two ways to interpret numbers and even graphs cannot be interpreted otherwise. Another major problem is that for a well-functioning economy and for new jobs, the good functioning of the judiciary is also crucial. A foreign investor will not put money in a country where his money will not be protected or where he will not feel safe. The government's position on the report was devastating because of this self-criticism. At least a handful of self-criticism, Madam Secretary of State and Mr Minister, who unfortunately is not with us today, and I do not condemn him, should have. It won't help if we put our heads in the sand like an ostrich, at least not in the long run. Once again, I propose to everyone that we take action. Please suggest that you are the first to propose measures to eliminate these consequences, or the allegations, which the European Court of Human Rights is telling us about. In the next two minutes, I will focus mainly on the 2013 Defence Report. One of the rights is the right to protection or to a trial without undue delay. We have discussed this a lot today, despite the fact that the debate is not yet over. The statistics of the State Attorney's Office show that in 2013 the Attorney-General's Office received 228 cases of fair satisfaction for violations of the right to a trial without undue delay. Ladies and gentlemen, 228 cases are 40% more than they were last year, despite Lukend's programme, despite everything. We're not effective. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State here for an answer. Next, also claims for compensation. We're talking about a 40% increase in compensation cases. I have a graph here, if you don't believe me. In 2013, these claims for compensation were 163, this year 228. According to statistics cited by the State Defence Office in its report, in 2014, the State Defence Office received 68 claims for compensation for damages caused by unjustified deprivation of liberty. In 2013, these applications were 50, this year 68. I am talking about human rights violations that have increased over the period in 2013. But we can't close our eyes now. If I continue to draw attention to another systemic problem, which also makes me afraid that we will receive any action by the European Court of Human Rights, this is the inaccessibility of everyone in the case to be tried by a court, mainly because of high court fees. We have 120,000 unemployed, 40,000 people with minimum wage, ladies and gentlemen, and the court fee is several thousand euros. How are these people guaranteed, if they can't pay, the right to court? The reform of the judiciary is essential if we are to make changes to the future so that we will no longer be seen in such reports by the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, I must say that the allegations I have heard from the Secretary of State, given the evidence we have presented here today, even the Secretary of State, are definitely not true. The lady says that Slovenia is not considered a major human rights violator, that is what she said in her address, and said in her debate. However, if we look at the report of the European Court of Human Rights, we can see that this is not the case. Not to mention the research prepared by Professor Lovro Sturm, whom we all know, the constitutional lawyer, the President of the Constitutional Court, the justice minister and so on. I don't think he can be challenged in any way. When the Secretary of State said that, but at the same time he has all these documents on the table, I don't know if we are discussing the same thing today. I have an obvious feeling that Mrs State Secretary is still living in a story that is untouchable. And I think this inviolability is a problem, and it's also part of the functioning of the justice system. The justice system is a living system and must be touching. If things are not being done in the right direction, they need to be alerted, and it is also necessary for the legislative branch of the authorities in this area to adopt certain solutions and decisions to change or improve these matters. I'm going to get a little attached to this study that Dr. Lovero Sturm has prepared, and I'm going to quote a few things. "The violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms caused by judges and courts in the Republic of Slovenia as part of the repressive state authority. Third interim report. Display of the survey for period 1. 1. 1995 to 23. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The purpose of the survey is to determine how often judges and courts in the Republic of Slovenia as contractors of the repressive state authority violate human rights and fundamental freedoms. The further purpose of the survey is to determine which of these courts and their number and the number of judges who have infringed human rights and fundamental freedoms in the longer term as the exercise of the judicial function. An ongoing study was carried out for a period of twenty years from 1. 1. 1995 to including 23. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The results of the survey also lead to some proposals for a higher level of transparency and thus to a higher professional level of judicial decision." Let us also go to the conclusions and preliminary results of the survey: "Slovenian courts and Slovenian judges have been in the period considered since 1. 1. 1995 to including 23. 4. 2015 involved in frequent violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. During the hearing period, 801 members of the Slovenian courts violated human rights and fundamental freedoms and at least 2 thousand 254 Slovenian judges were held. This figure was reached when we reduced the initial figure of 2 000 504 judges due to a delayed estimate by 250. In the number of judges, only professional judges were taken into account. We exempt the Laika judges from the jury's trial. In this respect, it is to be taken into account that in 2014 915 judges were employed in Slovenia according to data from the Slovenian Judicial Society. It shows that some of the same individual courts, their judicial compositions, or some of the same judges in certain longer periods of time have violated man's rods and fundamental freedoms repeatedly and consecutively." Further: "Among 804 courts or their courts, in which violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms have occurred, the power to find a number of the same courts (in different courts). According to the number of violations reported, during the period under review, the Supreme Court – 281 infringements followed by the Higher Court in Ljubljana – 118 infringements, the Higher Court in Maribor – 39 infringements, the Higher Court in Cyprus – 38 infringements, the Higher Court in Celje – 13 infringements. There are 51 violations by the Administrative Court and 48 violations by the Supreme Labour and Social Court. The District Court also stands out in Ljubljana, where 56 violations have been found." So, dear Secretary of State, now I'm asking you. You claim that Slovenia is not considered a major human rights violator, and I think you have a very visual and reasoned view of why we claim to do so. Not to mention the report of the European Court of Human Rights, which put Slovenia in the first place after human rights violations and the place of the flagholders in the European Union. I think it's not only sad, but it's also embarrassing, I'm sure, for every individual involved in the name and surname, and it also caused human rights violations in Slovenia. We've got a list of those individuals here, and I'm going to count them once, because we don't have to hide them. It is right to know who they are, with the name and surname that did this, no problem. Bojan Dolenc, Branko Maslesa – President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We have people like that in positions, in key positions. Then how can someone explain to me here that it's okay that everything is going in the right direction if we have these people on this list? Followed by Irena Badovinac-Belič, Janez Vlaj, Jasna Pogačar, Jože Petrič, Kristina Ozbolt, mag. Darinka Dekleva Marguch, Nina Betetto, Rudy Stravs, Martina Lippai, Pavel Dolenc, Peter Golob, Peter Hauptman, Vasili Polič and so on. We have this list. I will just count all the violations in the report that took place in 2013 and 2014. "Decision of the Constitutional Court on the annulment of judicial acts in 2013. 17. 1. 2013, Repeal of the judgment: Decision of the Supreme Court in Cyprus; 23. 5. 2013, Repeal of the judgment: Judgment of the Supreme Court; 9. 5, Repeal of the judgment: Judgment of the District Court in Montenegro; 16. 5. 2013, Repeal of the judgment: Decision of the Supreme Court of Maribor; Repeal of the judgment: Judgment of the Supreme Court and decision of the Supreme Court; 29. 5. 2014, Decision of the Supreme Court and decision of the District Court in Slovenian Konjice; 29. 5. 2014 Judgment of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana; 4. 6. 2014 Decision of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and the District Court in Domžal; 17. 6th Judgment of the Supreme Court; 8. 7. Judgment of the Supreme Court; 4. 9th Judgment of the Supreme Court; 18. 9th Judgment of the Supreme Court; 25. 9th Judgment of the Supreme Court; 2. Ten. 2014, Judgment of the Supreme Court, Judgment of the Supreme Court, Judgment of the Supreme Court and so on and so on. Then let someone else here say there's nothing wrong in this area. How and when will those who are in positions to take some things in the right direction, for the benefit of all and everyone, also take responsibility for what I have now read. I'm not reading it for fun. Look at the thick map of these violations. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven. 11 maps! Look at how thick a bunch of violations are, and you're saying it's okay that everything's going in the right direction. Now I don't understand if we're all in the same world or not. Explain that one more time. By explaining today that everything is all right, you do not agree that something should be changed in this area. You don't agree. You obviously don't agree to this. You're standing in a dam like you're a little god. And once again, you're not untouchable. The sooner you realize this, the easier it will be to come to common solutions and better solutions in this country, which are even more necessary for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Madam Secretary of State, once again, I can say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have called this meeting of the National Assembly in order to clarify these matters, which are important, here and together we are looking for appropriate solutions that will follow the path that an individual, a citizen and a citizen deserves in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u62	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The topic that we are discussing today is in itself very important. But somehow it saddens me that it's going in that tone. This is in the tone of protection of one single person, formerly a convict, president of a political party. It is said that this subject is being raised again and again only because of some political interests. I'll tell you why. The reason for this meeting was the statistics of the European Court of Human Rights in the 2014 report. The European Court of Human Rights has never written in this report or warned Slovenia that anything is wrong, but at the end of this report it published statistics from 1959 to 2014, of course Slovenia is subject to data from 1993 onwards. From this data comes what we all need to know and admit – gentlemen of the SDS, do not say that this is a lie and deception, as you usually say – that of these 300 convictions of the Republic of Slovenia is 180 convictions in 2006, the time of the government of Janez Janša. I'll give you some other information. In 2006, 185 convictions, 2007 14 convictions, 2008 12 convictions, 2009 7 convictions, 2010 6 convictions, 2011 11 convictions, 2012 again higher trend, probably due to prison cases, 20 convictions, 24 convictions in 2013 and 29 in 2014. You have all this information, most or two thirds of which refer to the period 2004 to 2008, so you have packed and served the Minister of Justice if you do not do well. In this is your deception about a topic which is very important and on which we work very hard in the SMC and I believe that the results will also be visible. Let me go on. Perception. Of course, perception, people don't trust the judiciary. Take the examples of Bavcar, Janša, Kordez, Popovic, Kangler, Balkan Warrior. Nobody gets convicted in the end. I believe that some people believe that these people should be condemned, and some believe that they are politically processed or whatever. But this perception information has two faces. That's when people say they should be convicted, and part of those who say they shouldn't even be in court. There was much to hear today about the Patrio case of human rights violations. There is still one procedure open in this matter, I think against one painter and some other gentlemen, so tell me, colleagues, how to explain to the public that the painter was involved in the purchase of armors, and the Minister of Defence knew nothing about it and was forgiven. How can the public then trust that there was nothing wrong with this system, in this procession? However, we need to know that these data are not only information about the work of the judiciary, but data relating to the work of the State in general. We have savers in this statistic, we have prisoners who have small cells and some other things, of course, very important. However, the largest proportion, of course, falls back to that period 2004-2008, which says that Slovenia violated human rights due to an unreasonable trial. As you have already had a chance to hear, in our client of these cases we have dealt with where they have been, and continue them, including with regard to the trial in unreasonable time by changing the process, legislation and so on. Of course, we are not for what you are affording to state some statistics when judges are supposed to violate the Constitution. You mentioned the names of some Supreme Judges, these judges are in the Senate. You know how the Senate votes to be, for example, two in favour, one in favour. How do you know which of these judges was voted on? Tell me that? You can't because you don't know because the vote is secret. That's what you're manipulating. You manipulate the public to look at human rights violations, see how many senators have violated human rights. Now, tell me one more thing. Have you compiled statistics here, for example, how many members of the SDS party violated human rights when the ZUJF confirmed? He was dismissed four times in the Constitutional Court. Did you pull that stat? You're not. Today there are some others on the wallpaper who are not even here and cannot defend themselves. I am sorry that this debate has gone back the way it was meant to go. We've been dealing with a lot of incorrect data. Today, this has been mitigated by you, if you have a 94% chance of going to the European Court of Justice to succeed. That's not true. If 8,000 100 lawsuits have been filed, but 300 have been processed, your statistics are not correct. More than 90% of them are discarded, according to the household said in baskets, because they are obviously groundless. Of those who take them and read them – they read everything to understand each other, but some consider it substantively – the exact statistics are 90%. But out of 8,000, 300 cases. I would like to turn to my colleagues who said that we have not adopted any conclusions. Of course we did. We have adopted conclusions on the Committee, of course not those of your drastic nature, which in fact do not have anything to do with judicial action, but with the identification of some critical situation, which, let us not forget, has been the result of statistics since 2006. Once again, in other words, if we are in the first place, we came first in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished proposalr! The debate on human rights is such that we must never avoid it. It needs to be discussed as often as possible, and if anyone feels that his human rights are being violated, it is important that we listen to it and try to respond soberly. Small things are different, of course, in how we sometimes interpret even the same facts and the same numbers. If, according to the applicant, the report of the European Court of Human Rights can be interpreted in such a way that, for example, San Marino and the Republic of Slovenia are among the largest, if not the largest, human rights violators on the European continent, it is more logical, on the other hand, that the Russian Federation and the Turkish Republic should be included in the category of the two largest human rights violators with mass executions, torture, imprisonment without prison tasks, camps which are unknown, but are seen with Google Maps, and so on. But, of course, every candidate has the right to interpret the data as he wants, just as every film director has the right to put the story together with the screenwriter as it pleases him. I believe that you have looked at some of the episodes – I hope that at least two and three – of the films about the famous agent of Her Majesty 007 because there is a known scenario, regardless of the episode, namely, a good car for starters, an explosion, a terrible plot, there are known evil characters, we know who is good, there is no difference in between. Whether one or the other, the world in a different color does not exist, ours go into battle, regardless of the situation, the brave agent of Her Majesty wins, and the world is black and white. By 1990 and some other episode later, it is clear that the villain is always from the then Soviet Union, later in a period binding from the Middle East, is now likely to be in some future episode a fugitive smuggler. But it's clearly set up – someone's guilty, someone's innocent. I am not saying this because at this point I would like to challenge anything to the proposer who has every right to have this extraordinary session, as well as any other, directs as he wishes. The fact is that justice in the Republic of Slovenia does not achieve brilliant and excellent results, for example at the point of the right to an appropriate speedy trial. That's very bad. We need to focus more on this, and this needs to be tackled even more intensively. At the same time, it is a fact that the trend of backlogs or trials in an unreasonablely long period is decreasing and that this year, or with data from the previous year, the trend is markedly good. It is unacceptable that there is a category of any violation of human rights at all, but we are probably all aware that there is only one legal act or one decision that cannot be resolved at the same time. What is one of the key problems in similar debates is that it tries to polarise them left or right, on the principle that only people with left-hand worldview orientation operate in justice. The fact that the state prosecutor was also respected, for example, by Barbara Brezigar, who ran for President of the Republic as a candidate for right-wing political parties and therefore also acted in this system, or that, for example, he was also a respected former state prosecutor, Mr Drobnic, part of this system is not spoken of, of course, because it is all a construct. Just like the movies about her Majesty's agent, where it can only be bipolar and homogeneous. At this point, I think that with a little rationalisation and without any particular difficulty, we can find that the argument that the lions defend the judiciary because it is only ours, and that the right ones attack it because there is no one there with the right political option, is probably not true. After all, he would be an esteemed constitutional lawyer, Dr. Sturm, whose report you are quoting, if I understand correctly, the right-wing minister and the president of the SDS Professional Council and so on. It would therefore be important to move from this Hollywood perception of human rights violations to at least the European design of film, script and directing, which is significantly more open and allows for thinking beyond the authorised directing paradigms. Again, justice isn't good. Starting with this – there is also an absolute call on the Secretary of State and the Minister to get things right away – that the judicial system and the judicial education system allow themselves to have trainees in this system on the same level since 2006 without even knowing what will happen to them, not knowing whether their situation will be resolved or whether additional conditions will be established, whether they will be paid or not. They just use a nice term to make Sui generis, if you save everything else, but you'll leave it to us as an asset to fix ourselves. That's wrong. Such arrogance is also understood and perceived by the judiciary as something that is wrong. And what my colleague Zorčič said earlier is that we can happen, that we have cases when there is a conviction at three stages, it falls to the last, and this is not once, it is repeatedly, which is of course unacceptable and throws a bad light on justice. But we cannot say that this leads to massive violations of human rights, that all judges do bad things, that it is a design of an option, or that it even begins on purpose – a man who works here and there is also mistaken. It is probably important to reach consensus on key issues within this House, for example, that if you are in a process and are in a position of authority, at least the mail sent to you by the court is raised. And you don't contribute to the process falling because you decided not to pick up the mail because otherwise it's your right not to pick up the mail to avoid. But then it happens that it falls either procedurally or through the years, and then it happens that we have to live in one movie where we can't even define whether someone is guilty or innocent, whether the breach was or was not because the thing is in the air and will continue. I would like, as my colleague Gorenak often says, to have fair elections, fair elections, if no one could, as you once reminded me, be fastened to that bullet that can't move. I have to ask myself here honestly whether the judicial system of the person concerned was, at the time, ordering the car to be bought by someone else or not to explain to him who bought it, not knowing why he didn't report the guarantee. So we don't know how it's possible for me to sell a plot that's worth X for a ten-cent customer who probably has some motivation for it, which he didn't have on any other case, and so on and so on and so forth. That doesn't make any difference. And the political culture of decision-making structures, including this assembly, should probably go a little closer to self-reflexion and the question whether, for example, we by avoiding the raising of mail, and not by making any mistake, which is also a common tradition on this side of the assembly, we do contribute to the rule of law and really contribute to the establishment of a system of the rule of law by confidence and self-confidence for those acting in justice. When we talk about the report in question, about human rights violations in Slovenia, about an unreasonable trial, also important in the case of family violence, prisoners and more, which are the substantive issues that we should really address today, it does not focus on them because we have to discuss bipolarally and what is in the air. Still, after the family code fell, we failed to properly regulate the protection against domestic violence, the protection of the victim — not that we still have a system in force where the victim is evicted and the abuser remains — we are not talking about it today. Why haven't we been able to fix this? Because this solution with the family code fell on the referendum table tabled by the applicants. Why? This is an important question for the proponents, I hope you will address it. Because several categories of citizens and citizens did not recognise the simple right to enter into a marriage. Because it feels that, of course, all in this country must be the same, but certain groups can little by little violate their human rights, say the fundamental right to family and to love the one they want to love. Once again, we have a constitutional review of the law that solves this in our work. The family code, which solved a wide range of problems, such as domestic violence, of course fell into this account. The people who are following this debate today, who are monitoring the affairs of our extraordinary session, the proposer in the role of Her Majesty's agent and us in the role of Dr. No, are probably thinking their own. But they find that what my fellow Vrtovec correctly took so that they can't trust us. Because they have the feeling that when something hits them that's not in the beam of headlamps, the system works. But when one thing hits someone who's a recognized face in politics, in an economy that can afford the best lawyers who can afford media support, things are miraculously complicated, usually to the point that they become insurmountable and eventually obsolete. Today, of course, we are discussing the injustices that may occur to those who may be obsolete, but not the violations of the rights of those whose voice is so unheard of, nor the rights of those who, due to lengthy trials in court, cannot, for example, exercise the constitutional right to free enterprise initiative, those who have been seeking for a very long time to protect themselves from abuse, and, for example, the rights of those who are fighting for the right to be allowed to report freely and to form a family in this country. And there's nothing else we can talk about. I fully agree with the proposer. In Slovenia, we need to do something to ensure that confidence in the justice system is restored, that the system is overwinded, that the judicial branch of the government is also aware of the importance of the relationship between the branch itself and the people and other branches of government. To put an end to the arrogance that is indisputable on the one hand, and to the other hand to us in this assembly and beyond, we also understand that, by our actions and such debates, at least in my opinion, we do not contribute to the better functioning of justice in Slovenia. On the contrary, we are helping to create the impression of a state of emergency, to create and exert pressure on the independent and urgently independent branch of government, thereby placing both prosecutors and judges and others acting in the judiciary in a position where, even to themselves, their professional judgement or their work, they can no longer be trusted. This is because they are constantly afraid that they will be on the lists that will then be published publicly, read and arbitrarily judged in principle, if the Republic of Slovenia, together with San Marino, is the biggest human rights violator in Europe, even though Russia and Turkey are simultaneously executing executions, unlawfully closing down and violating all legal postulates. If you ask me if this extraordinary session was necessary today, I will answer with certainty. She'll be all right. However, I wish, as it has already been said, that it would be directed by at least two different styles, because the fact that an agent of Her Majesty cannot in fact always win is clear to us all. There's another side to the medal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Škoberne, I have taught you once before, and on my blog I have told you more that it is not the defendant who proves innocence, but it is the court who proves guilty. And this time, I'm going to warn you again. You were not a Member who would violate human rights by withdrawing your mandate because you were not here. You have no right to speak the right to speak nonsense, that's true, I agree. [[…]] But you're talking today about the fact that he has to raise judgments and so on. If it were you, we could buy that military bed and park in front of the court, because every day you get three pieces. Would that be for you? The state has the tools to carry out the service and to carry it out. That's another thing. You're talking about 17,000 euros worth of land, and so on, go to our website and you'll see that the judge rated it 109 thousand. And you're still pounding at 17,000 and so on. Our meeting is not for Janez Janša. He's innocent, it's clear as day. You can deny that to him as much as you want, but that's right. It's legal. Our meeting may also be intended for all those who have been violated by human rights. I invite you to come Thursday at five and we'll go together in court, where I'll introduce you to 15, 20, everyone will tell you their story with the court. You know, Mr President, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, that there was talk about family code, family violence and everything. You haven't reacted, you've acted a little, so you wrote something like you can't hear it, but you just warned me. Be balanced because that's the point of democracy if you're balanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! As has probably been said many times today, the report on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms needs to be discussed. Such situations, as described in this report, could of course give the impression that we do not live in a democratic country in Slovenia, but that there is some kind of dictatorship or authoritarian regime. These countries are characterised by the fact that human rights violations are part and parcel of such a way of ruling. However, in this situation, it should be noted in particular that respect for the procedure is very important in democracy. If you do not respect this procedure, there are problems that also end with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. We have tried many times in Slovenia on the way to building a independent state to correct the injustices for us and, in fact, by enacting laws, at some point we have created the procedure by finally creating new injustices. This procedure and the implementation of measures relating to human rights are very sensitive, and we should certainly be more careful than we were at some point in time, because many times with some measures try to achieve the earlier political objective or the favour of each group by ignoring the situation or by exposing the situation of another group of people who are then affected by such a law. Denationalisation is certainly one of such principles that we have tried to undo the injustice for the return, but we have also caused new injustices. Tenants in denationalised apartments who lose their housing rights in this process are one of these categories that we have been trying to solve for many years, but we somehow do not get within procedures in Slovenia to conclude. It can happen that this case will also receive an epilogue then in the European Court of Human Rights. The housing we are also considering in this current debate is one such case. And here too, we do not find agreement within the country that this is a problem because a certain category of tenants was affected by the procedure that was initiated by the Denationalisation Act, as well as by all the other housing laws that were adopted on this subject, did not adequately address it. We are not paying enough attention to the situation created by the wrong approaches and procedures, so we have reports that we are also meeting here today at the meeting of the National Assembly. They certainly are not proud of us and should not be wiped out, but how we also tried to make this procedure as difficult as possible as possible for epilogues to occur. The savers of the Ljubljana Bank are the same. We just ignored all these processes. And that is something that we must certainly take a very critical look at and make a mirror that all these solutions were really not good. I think there are also many problems ahead, again precisely because of the principle and non-compliance with the procedures that are typical of democracy, including the rehabilitation of banks. We have also intervened in the rehabilitation of banks in the rights of those who have opted for a certain principle of saving, including risks, but we have resorted to these rights on the ground that this, as it turns out, will be an extremely demanding procedure before the courts, and this story can happen if not in the domestic courts, of course, later in the European Court of Justice. It is right to sober up and first look at the consequences we have for an individual with a certain measure and, of course, leave all other interests, political ones. gainful, capital ones, which have been extremely strong in Slovenia in the past period, and all in fact also cause very large injustices to individuals. I think that in the future it is certainly a solution to the fact that in Slovenia we are aware of the procedure that we must respect in democracy and that, above all, it is very important to control the implementation of the Constitution. In our constitution, we have made some things extremely clear, not least the last amendment to the Constitution, which also relates to the right to call for a referendum. We insisted that a referendum could not be declared if the law abolished human rights. But it was very difficult to actually get to this dictatorship, if all this is already regulated in the constitution and there is no need to give further attention to this issue in the referendum invitation procedure. But we also managed to get him into this constitutional change. Today, however, it is very important to monitor the implementation of the Constitution, in the field of human rights. Many laws, some I have already mentioned, which we have adopted, require detailed analysis and clearance of all those dictatorships that open up the possibility of violating human rights or, if you wish, also open up the possibility of corruption, which in fact means, as a result, a violation of a right or an interference with the status of an individual, because the procedure was once again contrary to democratic principles. So these are the moments that we can take advantage of, especially in this direction, to sober up and stop some practice that was obviously bad in Slovenia. Not only in the judicial branch of power, but also in the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of power, we all have to ask ourselves whether everything has been done optimally enough or not, and here we have many challenges for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mr Matjaž German ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u70	Thank you, Chairman. On the working body itself, we have rejected the members of the proposal's statement coalition, and Mr Gorenak also said that he agrees and that the debate was very argumentative. Of course, he did not fully agree with the conclusions, but he said very well that we had stated these matters in a reasoned manner. It is right that the debate is broader; it is right that every human rights violation that is violated is, in fact, spoken and debated. However, if we are discussing it, we are discussing it precisely, for otherwise we may miss the point. If we use exclusively statistics-based data, we must first be aware of what statistics really are. Its basis is mathematics, i.e. mathematical statistics, where there is a large degree of chance and uncertainty, and then statistics revitalize it in a way that essentially determines some degree of probability. However, the degree of likelihood means that the claim is true or not true. Therefore, what we use in statistics is not necessarily true. An even bigger problem is that statistics are considered to be a decision-making theory, and those who make decisions solely on the basis of statistics and use only one aggregate and within that only two data, as I have already said, certainly miss the point. In my case, I think he's missing the content. This statistics, as we see it, have shown that we are at the top of the violators, but it is better if we are together with Liechtenstein and San Marino than with Russia and Turkey, as has been said. Today's debate also showed that it was not the purpose of the data used to determine what the current situation was, but that this period has been used since 1959 for a completely different discussion. And why can these claims not apply to modern times? We are talking about the past, precisely because 190 convictions for non-compliance were handed down in 2006 within a reasonable time. In 2014 there were 7 such cases, but they all related to the past period. And it is not fair, not to the courts and not to others, not to acknowledge the changes that have occurred and also to the trend that has been positive. Today, the average time limit is 3.3 months. I think that all the measures taken by the judiciary in the field of court have led to this and should also be commended. But we're talking about human rights violations in court. However, if we look at who violated these human rights before the European Court of Justice, we will find that in very few cases these were regular courts. They were mostly politicians and, therefore, the Constitutional Court, which had not decided correctly, found otherwise behind them. These are deleted, the savers of the Ljubljana Bank, the removals of companies that are waiting, perhaps small shareholders and others, of course also prisoners, as mentioned earlier. As was said, of course we have good judges among the judges and we have bad judges. The same is true of politics. Since it has been said that we should discuss in a way that makes concrete proposals, this is my concrete proposal. Let us find out who those politicians were responsible for having committed human rights violations, gather data and discuss in concrete terms, not over their fingers and minds. The second proposal, which has already been mentioned in some way, refers to the abuse of human rights. When we talk about human rights and their protection, we usually talk about protecting an individual from the state. That's what they were meant to do. Who, though, will protect the state and the individual who enjoys its right to abuse the fundamental human rights holder? Let us analyze and determine the conflict between a trial within a reasonable time frame and the right to defence, which is also a fundamental human right. And, of course, the resulting analysis to determine the right to a fair trial. Very often in this process, we will find that for those who exercise fundamental human rights, there is a subversion, another objective is to make the procedure essentially obsolete, not to end and not to find their guilt. And who will protect this victim? In fact, this victim feels humiliated and disappointed, which is why he does not trust in the court, and he can still be such a good judge when faced with such a situation, he can't be a part of it. It is no wonder that so disappointed people often, when they are in court, use the old river in the proceedings not to look for a virgin on the dance floor and not justice in court. But this is because of the actions that lead to the appearance of impartiality and dishonesty of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u71	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u72	Excuse me, if I may say so. We don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u73	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare Miha Kordišek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are accompanying this session. In view of the progress that has been made so far, we find that a whole series of discussions are related to data from different institutions and, above all, to human rights courts. I think that we need to go beyond this type of data by referring more or less to quantitative analyses, but more importantly, we need to focus on the trend in researching such phenomena on qualitative analyses. This means that we are going to look at the judicial files and that we are going to have targeted discussions with the judges involved in such violations and, on the basis of this, we are making the right parameters and implementing the measures necessary to improve the situation. If we look at the challenges facing the judiciary, we must look ahead. Now we're looking back at the state of these violations. Looking forward, we can see that the cases in the courts are becoming more complex, more and more knowledge is needed, which will consequently mean that the proceedings will continue to be longer. For this reason, we must prepare measures to ensure that there are no delays in procedures and consequently human rights violations. New forms of human rights violations – in front of us are the waves of migration, refugees, and there will also be a whole series of unresolved issues, a whole series of procedures, and we will witness this in the future, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe. And as an additional element, more and more acts have signs of international action, which will result in more possible abuses and violations of human rights. According to everything else, I would look again at that main problem in the judiciary, this problem is staffing. If we're doing an analysis years ago, we know that the problem was that we didn't have enough judges to run for office. Now the pyramid has turned around and we have a whole bunch of judges running for cities, and here we will have to make real selection based on the career system, the entry of judges at the lowest levels, and then the construction of careers to the highest level, because we notice that the highest congestion is at the highest levels of the courts, says the second level, and then the decision in regular and extraordinary remedies. So this career system will have to be reversed. If we just look at the human resources structure, we can see that at the lowest levels, women are dominated, and more than we go to the top of the pyramid, we have only men in these places. Compared with studies by some European countries, we note that this positive discrimination has been completely undermined and, as a result, some studies have found that this has also led to a greater number of human rights violations. If I did, I'd focus again on education. I have already warned in the National Assembly that education is the foundation of future judicial work. There's been a lot of abuse going on here. I mentioned that we could already settle the conflict of interest and the incompatibilities of the function of judges — because we know that the judge is an official — that he should not do any extra work besides his work. Of course, there are exceptions to abuse. The situation, even our fault, has not been settled. The last answer was that it would be regulated by a code of conduct for judges. I don't know if we're gonna get to this code. It also criticises us not to gather any power to adopt a code of conduct for Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u75	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I also welcome today's debate in the National Assembly on human rights and human rights violations. This is a very long time, as we are talking about the period 1959-2014 in this report. I must say that a lot has happened in the field of justice lately, so it is not all as black as mentioned in this report. However, I cannot overlook the fact that we became a member of the Council of Europe only in 1993, and we signed the ratification of human rights in 1994. However, I must say that any violation of human rights must be carefully looked at, looked into the system, and looked at what is wrong, so small a matter as these violations are not allowed. I must say that there are violations in Slovenia, especially in relation to the right of trial within a reasonable time frame, where we have very well adopted the Lukenda measure, which has reduced the number of these judicial arrears. However, there has been a major problem on this side that we now have too many judges or we count the largest number of judges in Europe. Since I am running out of time, let me say that in the judicial branch of power, we should work on the reputation, the trust that citizens and citizens should be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u77	Thank you for not having to turn it off. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, we talked earlier about what was going on in the Shilih case. "I am outraged," says Mother, "I don't care where she is," which means you, "counts and archives individual judgments, the judgment clearly states that the right to life is violated – article 2 of the Convention. I recommend that the secretary read the matter once, if she doesn't understand, ten more times." What's to add? It's not. It is also true that the spouse of Shilih was not found in Slovenian justice and found in the European Court of Justice. There's nothing to add. As far as those objections to Mrs Murgel, you and Mr Zorčič are concerned, I consider you to be in that basket, especially as a lawyer who can become a judge tomorrow. So I'm going to say that I have no problem that you were a judge, right, that you were a judge, but the people and those watching us need to know that you're biased, that you're a cheerleader. Why? Because you're defending your virtue. The same goes for you and the same goes for Mr Zorčič. You're just defending your character, and that's why you're not credible, that's the problem. But by being a judge, I really don't have a problem. Mrs Porotat really doesn't understand, I don't have anything to add when you tell her three times or five times that the NGO wasn't preparing this document, which is the basis, but that it was prepared by the European Court of Human Rights, she's still chasing her shit because they put the tape in it, I don't know. And then she can't change, even though I told her ten times. But Mr. Zorčič, you're the provoker in these shows, and that's what you call a provoker. I teach, such a proposal, what provocations can do at public meetings and that they are dangerous. You claim that the problem is that the European Court of Human Rights has adopted the most of these judgments in the time of the Janša government. You're telling the public it's Janša's fault. That's what you tell the public, your provocation. But you know exactly that the European Court of Human Rights has nothing to do with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not that, sooner or later, and that it decides after one of its own dynamics. Human rights violations identified between 2004 and 2008 were probably committed during the Drnovskov government or the Drnovskov government. Probably. You are, of course, deceiving the public directly with this. It's dangerous, it's provocatively dangerous, just like the last time on the board, you'll hear how we're connected to the Constitutional Court. No, I don't, but I don't want to see you as a lawyer with all the provocations you're going through. There's no point in answering Mr. Kordish, no matter what, I'd say sit down and come to the exam next time, that's all it is, because stupidity speaks. All those among them are him, Mr Zorčič and another, Mr Škoberne and so on, who spoke about the Patrio case. One individual, one Member. Say Janez Janša! You're embarrassed, you don't speak your language or something? Isn't that a word from your tongue? I'm on it. Now he's guilty because it's out of date. And now he's guilty because it's obsolete. Mr. Scoberne is looking for reasons not to pick up the mail, but I don't know what kind of stuff it's all about. In particular, I repeat that the SDS has been pointing to the state of justice since 1999, according to my memory. This has nothing to do with Patricia. It has nothing to do with it. Go before a court where your minister wants to stop those performances, at least that way he shows up to make some statements and he's a little bit of a liar, and then he takes back on TV because his fear becomes something like that. Go over there and you'll see a lot of people who have nothing to do with the SDS client, but they've been violated human rights, many times. Many times. Speaking of some painter, you're thinking of a painter named Juret Cekuto, aren't you? Yeah, he was getting 2400 euros a month bribe on the Patria case. You know that because he's convicted and he's already in prison, as I know. And you're talking about some painter and some Jansa. We're gonna have to make a decision and deal with those who can't digest the president of the SDS. Go to the polls, those fair ones. Each of you SMC gentlemen should be asked if we would sit here if the elections were fair. Ask yourself, would I be sitting here if the elections were fair? Then ask yourself something else. Does it hurt your finger to break the Constitution? Yes, you violated his constitutional rights, you threw him out of Parliament. Yeah, yeah. That's right. It would be time for you to stop attacking him. It would've been time. Didn't you get enough of a large portion from the Constitutional Court? Isn't that enough? You need Trento now, don't you? Scoberne's already started it. It would be time for you to recognize that there is a problem in Slovenian justice that needs to be solved. He must also be saved with responsibility. And with responsibility. As I have pointed out many times, German judges during their work and later retire to take up to 30% of their pension or salary if they do what ours do. And you keep saying how nice it is in justice. Of course it's nice, it'll be nice for you to go back when Mrs Murgel goes back and when Mr. Zorčič becomes some kind of judge, of course it will be nice. Why don't we defend this system? How about I defend the police, and I'll get a job with the police later. I'm not going to. I guess you don't. Think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u79	Replica, Mr. Zorčič. Twenty-two seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u80	That's all I'd say. If you say that the European Court has nothing to do with the government of Janez Janša, Borut Pahor or Mir Cerar, then I don't know what the reason for this session is, because you only talk about it. You're the opposite of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u81	It was 22 seconds, no more. It was so much for the replica, and that's it. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. I'd like to prepare a proposal girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One more time on the Shilih issue. Not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the European Court of Human Rights places this matter under the Law of Effective Investigation, not under the heading Right to Life. Thus, it was decided that an ineffective investigation had been conducted, not that the right to life had been forfeited. Now she will read you from the judgment, which we have read several times, and we will do so again because these judgments are always a useful source of jurisprudence. For reasons, the court clearly states: "Point 4. The Court shall, by 15 votes in favour and 2 against a violation of Article 2 of the Convention in its procedural work – ineffective investigation." So much for Shilih's case. Now there are a few other things that have been exposed in the debate. I have been asked to respond to the relationship between the number of judges and the perpetuity of our judiciary. I'd like to say the following here. More than once, we have found that the largest injection of personnel was given at the time of Lukenda, whether the judiciary wanted it or not, at that time the judicial types were extremely filled or completed. Now this number is falling significantly. The Court has set itself a goal, and this objective is also enshrined in the Europe 2020 strategy in the work relating to justice, so that the number of judges in 2020 will be 43 per 100,000 inhabitants. This goal will be achieved, given that we are now at number 45. So the number is decreasing and we're getting closer to the target. What is important here is that this information, that Slovenia has the largest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants, has been explained several times. The problem is that the CEPEJ methodology in this part was flawed, and we have warned about it, and this has been acknowledged. In some countries, such as Britain, certain judges, but not only certain, but the vast majority of the first-degree judges, the so-called Judgs Magistrates, are not included in these figures, similar to in Austria, asylum judges, similar to those in Scandinavian countries, are not included in the tribunals. So what's my thesis? We have reported correctly and have actually given all the figures, and in some countries all those who actually judge and solve cases are not covered here. That is why Slovenia was first, at least then, because we are now waiting for a new report. However, it is necessary to know that in our case-laws are also part of the ordinary court, and I will say again whether or not the judicial branch wanted it, but not in all countries. So much for the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. In this regard, we will then also calculate productivity. I think Mr Pojbič has pointed out that we are a serious violator and should admit it. I will mention once again the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 9 September this year, which, as the biggest violator or most problematic, exposes Italy, Turkey, the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Romania, Greece, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria. So I can turn the question a little differently. If, in the opinion of the honourable Member of Slovenia, the one most problematic is, where would he place the countries mentioned above? So much for his allegations. Mr Tanko asked me or asked me the question that it might have been rhetorical, but whether the Government would appeal to the European Court of Human Rights regarding the report under discussion. Here my answer is negative because the European Court of Justice publishes statistics, this has been repeatedly said. The statistics are clear. However, the Government will not respond to the report of the NGO RightsInfo, or their analysis, which has purposely processed this data according to one of its own methodologies, because it will not compromise this way with a foreign NGO. Now for the conclusion. Oh, it's still a while. Maybe that's it. There's no way the government's holding that head in the sand. As we have done many times today and ever before, we always say that progress is but not enough and not in all areas. Therefore, here I find it difficult to agree that we deny or that we do not see or want to see situations such as this, but we do not agree with the burning and that we should put out, but we believe that the situation is stable enough and that trends are favourable enough to be weighed, with sufficient thought and wisdom, even in a constructive debate with you, we decide what else to do, which practices to upgrade, how this progress graph, how to move this forward or a line of progress even more vertically. With a view to progress, here I am also referring to the enforcement of the Court's judgments on human rights and the even better monitoring of the practice of this Court, we intend, as I have already mentioned, to establish a special mechanism in our ministry, so we are adding this competence to ourselves in a new way, if I may say so. And it is precisely to monitor the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that we intend to place an even greater weight in the future, while at the same time closely monitoring the implementation of these. When I talk about monitoring, I also have in mind a detailed analysis of judicial practice. I have already mentioned the Help project, from which we are also very promising and it is very much connected with the education of judicial officials and others in this country who are meeting and dealing with human rights. To conclude, we are also actively preparing an amendment to the Law on State Defence, because we are aware that in the past some problems or convictions of the Republic of Slovenia may have been made at the expense of not the most effective, substantively appropriate and organisationally organised state defence. Even the country's lawyers, if I can call them that, therefore, can expect certain changes in the future, all with the wish, as I said, that the situation as it has been improved, is still being upgraded and that the acceleration of improvements in the future is even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u83	The representative of the proposer, Mrs Eva Irgle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u84	Thanks again for saying that. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! We have now come to the end of the debate on human rights violations on the report issued by the European Court of Human Rights, where it has made clear that Slovenia is the largest human rights violator in the judiciary per million people. If I make one brief cut of this debate, particularly the coalition Members, I can say that it is still a matter of protecting justice at all costs and justifying the human rights violations caused to Slovenian citizens. Instead of protecting those individuals who have been violated by human rights, members of the coalition prefer to protect the judicial system that caused these violations. The distinguished Secretary of State has not answered almost any of my questions, but in particular I have not received an accurate answer to the question raised several times, how is it possible that in Slovenia we have the highest number of judges per hundred thousand inhabitants and, on the other hand, the lowest rate of ingenuity. In short, I have not received a concrete answer to this question to date, given that we have raised this question several times in other sessions or in the Committee of Justice. Madam Secretary of State, you have also said in the middle of the debate and other coalition Members have conscientiously reiterated to you that they do not hold information or that they do not hold back the data provided by the European Court of Human Rights, namely that Slovenia has violated human rights so many times. You're saying they don't hold this information, even though it's black and white in the report. I now wonder whether any of the coalition in charge of these areas, or anyone from the Ministry of Justice, has sent any objection to these findings to the European Court of Human Rights. I hope that in due course we will also get this answer, it is said that someone will make a clear commitment to the Slovenian state and say, "Sorry, but this is not true, here we have information that clearly shows that these matters, which you have written in the report on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights, simply do not hold and are guilty of this, this and this." But I didn't personally experience it, and no one here explained it. Today we have found, as never before, that unfortunately justice does not work as effectively with us as it should have a lot of anomalies within the system itself. This is also why various civil society initiatives have been developed in the past, drawing attention to the situation in Slovenian justice. What should be done by the Ministry of Justice has now been taken up by various civil society initiatives. On the one hand, we have, say, the European Slovenia Society, which is made up of eminent lawyers who are seriously concerned about the state of justice. On the other hand, we have, say, the 2014 Committee, which is an important actor in the field of human rights protection. And both of these civil organisations agree that one of the main causes of the moral, social and economic crisis in Slovenia is justice, which unfortunately has not experienced lustration reform. I've said more about this before. As such, this justice represents a major obstacle to the establishment of a free and just and democratic society. It is therefore necessary to say here that the public, or that they are citizens and citizens, because they already do not trust more than 70% in the justice system, signed or wrote a petition requiring the following things. Firstly, the public opinion of the judicial work, which means that from all public judgments – for example on the Court’s website – must be clear which judges or judges were tried in the case of criminal cases and also which prosecutors and prosecutors participated in the proceedings. We have to make sure of that. Secondly, the transparency of judicial work means the public vote on the Senate, on what Mr Zorčič said earlier. I believe that he will also vote in favour of such a solution to know exactly how someone voted in the Senate because this is about transparency or transparency. The transparent public publication of judges and judges and prosecutors who have proven to have violated fundamental human rights and freedoms, so that there will be no misrepresentation that no one knew anything when someone is called to a top position, such as Mr Branko Masleša as President of the Supreme Court or Dr. Bellon Fischer as Attorney General. This means that if we put in place any mechanisms sooner, then such appointments, respected colleagues and colleagues, can no longer be made. And so it would be. Next, the introduction of procedures for identifying abuses in the judiciary to determine precisely when abuses occurred, as was the case with politicisation and abuse in the case of Patricia. A key issue, the establishment of a system of accountability among the officials of the judiciary. I have already said before – although we should have this provision earlier – that we already have a criminal provision that ensures that judges and judges have to be held accountable for the irregularities they make in the proceedings, but no one has ever been responsible for it. Why do we even accept such things if there is no effect? The victims of justice must not only be states, but also judges and judges and prosecutors and prosecutors, who, by means of judicial error and abuse of justice, have been wronged, personally provided with material and moral satisfaction. Let me remind you, for example, of one very important case that has taken place, the case of Robert Fojakr and his many years of lasting saga. No doubt in this case, we failed our safety test or, above all, our respect for human dignity. For about 15 years, this saga lasted here, and this is not an isolated case of the State’s prosecutor’s contentious conduct, which in his case was unfair and even illegal in bringing charges and appeals against acquittals. But I didn't find that and the Slovenian Democratic Party didn't find that, but it was how the judge wrote down and warned the District Court in the discharge. But what happened to such a prosecutor or prosecutor? Nothing. Was he responsible for the mistrials? Responsibility is crucial and where no one is responsible for anything, we cannot expect to improve neither transparency nor efficiency, but also unfair trial. The fact is, there were no key elements in our time of transition. There was no lustration, and today we pay the mania of this lustration at all levels, not only at the level of justice, but at all social levels. However, it should be a common goal for all of us to finally make Slovenia a legal, social and therefore a just state. But if he wants to become a just country, a country that will actually respect human rights, which will not be able to take office before the European Court of Human Rights in the first place after the violation of human rights between all European countries, then we must first establish fair justice. What does justice mean? This means that we are all equal before marriage, regardless of our status, political affiliation, sex, or other circumstances. Righteous justice and, if I may say so, a just state also means that, for example, they will have to answer those who have been blamed for their crimes committed after World War II, even posthumously. That's justice. So far, no such proceedings have been brought before the Court, despite evidence, we have talked about this in this National Assembly on several occasions. For example, if we want to talk about fair justice, unfortunately no proceedings have yet been processed concerning the killings of the former State Security Service. I'm not surprised why not, because even in this national assembly, there are individuals who were part of this organization, who were then severely violating human rights and who are still very well distracted by the various segments of our society today. Of course that's the problem. How will they then vote in favour of such proposals as would actually establish a fair system in the country? They can't vote. They can't. Unless they admit it and say, "Yes, we made mistakes, that was the system, but now we're going to act differently. But they don't work differently, they do the same thing, they just act more secretly, or they've been doing it on all levels ever since, and it's been going on like this. But the Austrian prosecutor's office, let's say, works in this area. He's working in this area and things are going very well. According to information, there is relatively little sleep in some. A little sleep. But our courts and our prosecutions do nothing in these cases. If we want some just justice before a court, of course, all those who are responsible for the theft of our common property will have to be convicted on the basis of evidence, and it would be appropriate to return it to all of us. But still nothing. There's still nothing in the banking hole. In short, we are in a situation where at least we in the National Assembly should look together at these anomalies within the judicial system, and the Ministry of Justice should finally take this issue seriously. Not the way we get some cosmetic corrections to judicial legislation, but the whole reform of justice, not the spirit, not the hearing. The National Assembly therefore held a debate on the state of human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings, and we wanted today to vote on the fact that the State Council finds that the situation is not satisfactory, because of all the indicators that we have explained earlier. It follows from the review of the work of the European Court of Human Rights in 1959-2014 for the Republic of Slovenia that, for the last time, Slovenia, with 148 cases of human rights violations found per million inhabitants, is the first among the European countries and cannot hide this data. Again, I ask, will the Ministry, however, write a letter to the European Court of Human Rights because it says that they do not hold this information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u85	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, on the basis of the first paragraph, Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? If you would also like to discuss the proposal's proposal for a recommendation from Mrs Eva Irgl and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. [[No, no, ……]] Before the application, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there will be no visible names for the debate on the screen as a result of the renewal of the conference voting system, so we will receive from the on-call room in a few minutes a list of the advertised debaters, which will be prepared by the system as so far as we have in a random order. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr Jasna Murgel, Mr Primož Hainz and Dr Vinko Gorenak applied for the debate. Each debater has 5 minutes. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that colleague Eva Irgle, on behalf of the proposaler, said that the Government and members of the coalition, if I understood correctly, said that the data of the European Court of Human Rights were wrong, I must say that we did not say that. We didn't say that. We didn't say it. We didn't say it. We didn't say it. We argued, however, that the interpretation given by the applicant was wrong. That's what we said. We would not dare to say that the information given in the annual report of the European Court of Human Rights is wrong. It is, however, a question of how they are explained, how we interpret them, and how we all objected together. For there is no alternative but to contradict the interpretation set out for another purpose, nor to interpret violations in our internal legal system, nor do we want to politicise – here I agree with the representative of the Government – with some non-governmental organisation. We cannot therefore agree to the interpretation that the report of the European Court of Human Rights means that Slovenia is exposed in this report as a human rights violator because it cannot be understood from this report. One more thing, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe oversees the exercise of human rights in all the members of the European Court of Human Rights, and would also warn us if we were such a terrible violator. That the finding that we are human rights violators does not stem from the report of the European Court of Human Rights by 2014, as we have already said, the Ombudsman and also the judge who is still working on this court have also found. It is therefore an interpretation that is not acceptable and not in any way contrary to the data provided by the European Court of Human Rights in its report by 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u87	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all again! Of course, I don't think our judiciary is as it might be. When a man opens a newspaper, of course, he's surprised. Still, some in our society are almost untouchable. Customer chiefs are untouchable, liberators are untouchable, and, of course, untouchable are immodestly rich. By saying that we are indeed continuity in this sense. In socialism, too, the head of the party was, or almost, unable to be convicted. The liberators, of course. I remember these discussions, we've had trouble with the champions all the time. But now we have added to capitalism, of course, the unscrupulously rich. This certainly does not give people the best feeling that the judiciary is as it could be. Then there are resources that are very simple. One gets sick, then the thing gets old, because they don't pick up the mail, then someone goes into personal bankruptcy, while all the assets are sold or copied to their children or family. Surely all of this does not arouse great enthusiasm in people’s judgment. Of course, I am sure that this is not so much about the people who work in the judiciary – I am not saying that people are ideal – but that it is mainly about the system. I think it would be good for this reform of justice to come to some extent, but it is partly happening if it is not in the package now, but slowly. I'm kind of an optimist here. However, because I think that basically the problem is not people who work in the judiciary, but vice versa, because I know some perfect judges – I also served three terms as jurors, so I know some very closely, and I know how to prepare, some of course not – I am against lustration. Lustration is a simple revolution if we simplify this expression. I may already be too old for the revolution, and I also know that revolutions besides good can bring in extremely bad side effects or other effects. That is why I think and agree that the reform of justice is an important issue. Evolutionary, but it doesn't have to be revolutionary. However, I think there are some problems in the judiciary, which I have to point out for myself, about what may not have been mentioned enough today. I think that rewarding good judges and, of course, punishing bad judges is certainly one of the first issues, but it is a problem of public administration, it is a problem of trade unions that live from a balance sheet, and in no profession can we make or create any difference between those who do good and those who do bad. This, of course, is what is not good, I stress, even in the judiciary. Certainly more could be done in public, as mentioned above, Mrs Irgle mentioned. Decades ago, we talked about the fact that sometimes jurors were also laymen, now they're just lawyers, and the circle was constantly narrowed down to lawyers, eventually to judges, and it kind of closed itself down, and so did the public work. I don't think it's a good thing that when a trial goes to a higher court, a higher court doesn't decide, but it returns. This greatly prolongs the matter and does not produce the right result. A copy pasta from a higher court is something that's not good. I think that the next higher instance could decide – what the law allows it to do, is another thing – and I think that things would simplify, shorten and also give certain results. That much is possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u89	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. But I'm lucky to be behind you, aren't I? Dr. Sturm's supposed to be the wrong methodology, but the entire world of nine SMC doctors didn't tell us what was wrong with the methodology. Now I think it's the wrong interpretation. You don't have anything to interpret. 148 human rights violations per million inhabitants are the most, except San Marino, which has a little more, but is considered a local community of people. What do we have here to interpret? Tell me what. That's the third time I've said it today. One time it's a methodology, but don't say anything, but one time it's an interpretation. We don't have anything. 148 is 148, one, four, eight human rights violations per million inhabitants. You can do another doctorate for interpretation, but 148 will be 148. That's a fact. There's no other way. No one said that Slovenia was exposed in the report. That's what you said. I never said that. I didn't even hear Mrs. Irgle say anything. You said so. We just said that in the report, the number 148 is the most among the serious countries if you count your pockets. Mr. Hainz, I don't have a problem with you when you're performing because you're just performing as a client. When you're in charge, it's a problem because you run a client service. But now you're saying that the customers' bosses, the invaders and the rich are untouchable, that it's the same as that system. Slovenian justice must condemn anyone, regardless of how he wrote, including Janez Janša, Bavčar or anyone else, on the basis of material evidence that proves that he has committed a crime. That's all it is. But if, in ten years of this, they were unable to prove in an unknown place on an unknown day in an unknown way and those stories, then the story falls. It's not a recluse, it's not Janša, it's nothing, but it's one of the proceedings. The courts must be decent to judge. Prosecutors must be able to prove it, but our prosecutors are not capable. We had Mr Kozina almost for God's sake, but now he's lost everything. Who else is in prison? No one else. Shit, everything else is already out there. But what does that mean? That means the D.A. didn't prove it. That's the problem. It doesn't make sense to talk about hot stories and stuff. That's Larry Fari. For all the employees in the courts and the court service you pay, they'll find everyone in this country and they'll give it to him. That's probably not gonna be a problem. The problem is probably somewhere else. I agree with you that it is necessary to reform justice, but not lustration. Who's talking about lustration? No one talks about lustration. No, no, no, don't talk. Give me one magnetogram and find me another magnetogram when I say a permanent term has to be taken. I never said that, and we never said that. No lustration, just respect for article 8 of the Law on Courts, and this must be done. Article 8 of the Law on Courts, that is, when granting a permanent term of office in 1994, you did not respect it, but it must be respected. But the reform really needs to be done, but the real one. Not as Mr Zorčič says when he said we don't know how the particular judge voted. I agree, but it is necessary to make such a situation that all judges on behalf of the people, the name, the surname and the face will have. And let them sign below, so that people can see how someone judged. But I absolutely agree with you when you said that the higher court should decide. That's what we did back in 2006. Then came the smartest and most beautiful minister who was written by Zalar, and of course put the matter back. That's the problem. We've done this before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u91	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm afraid there's no replica at this point. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal is final. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a restriction law and a ban on the production of genetically modified plants within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u92	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! You have before you the proposal for a law restricting or prohibiting the production of genetically modified plants. In the European Union, the area of genetically modified organisms is very sensitive, as production and transport with them raise a number of issues, and therefore most Member States, including Slovenia, do not support the approval of new genetically modified organisms for cultivation or placing on the market, nor do they support the cultivation of genetically modified plants in their territory. After several years of seeking compromise solutions, a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted on 12 March this year, giving Member States the opportunity to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants in their territory or part of their territory. The Directive shall apply from 2 April of this year. By the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food by 2020 – We provide food for tomorrow, adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 29 March 2011, Slovenia has set itself a clear objective, namely to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants. Slovenia has decided to develop a sustainable agricultural model offering high quality and high added value crops based on preserved nature and preserved biodiversity. Therefore, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we immediately approached the drafting of legislation in this area in order to implement this Directive. The legal solutions were drawn up within the working group, which was composed not only of representatives from different ministries but also from representatives of interested public and professional institutions. In a broad public debate on the draft law, 106 responses arrived, 97 of which strongly supported the bill's proposal. Following cross-cutting coordination, the Government adopted the law on 24 June 2015. Let me explain why the rapid adoption of the law is necessary. The Directive introduces the possibility that Member States may, within a 6-month transitional period ending on 3 October 2015, require geographical exclusion for the production of genetically modified plants already authorised by the European Union or under the approval procedure. At this point, there are 8 such genetically modified plants. That is why today this law is before you so that Slovenia can take advantage of this option in time. For all genetically modified plants to be subsequently authorised for cultivation, the proposal of the law provides that, on the basis of an opinion of the specific expert committee, the Government may adopt the following measures to assess the reasons for the restriction or prohibition of the production of those plants: it shall require geographical exclusion from the marketing authorisation or, if such requests are not complied with by the notifier, the prohibition on the production of genetically modified plants throughout the territory. The law allows for a restriction or prohibition where such cultivation would not be in line with the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, environmental policy or spatial planning policy; if it would result in additional obstacles or burdens on the implementation of those policies; if it would result in negative socio-economic effects in agriculture, the economy or local government; if it was found that effective measures could not be taken to prevent the unintentional presence of genetically modified organisms in other crops and, especially, if free choice on whether or not they are producing genetically modified organisms or plants would be excluded from their choice of application would be disproportionate. Dear Members and Members! The relation to GMOs does not only determine current agricultural and environmental policies, but our actions and decisions in this regard also have long-term implications and determine what agriculture, food quality and nature and biodiversity we will have in the future. That's why I hope you'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u93	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u94	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the restriction or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its 10th meeting, on 2 September 2015. Amendments summarizing most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and have also been adopted by the Committee. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, which supported the bill. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. By the end of the prescribed period, the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia was forwarded to the National Assembly, which supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, the Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia stressed that the Chamber supports the bill and points out that the use of GMOs has a significant impact on agricultural production both from an environmental and economic point of view. A key principle in this is the right to make a decision, namely the one farming in an ecological way and the one farming in the way of the latest scientific achievements. Some common rules are therefore needed. In a broad debate, members of the committee from all parliamentary groups supported the proposed solutions to the bill, as it represents a step forward towards the proposed objective of banning GMO cultivation, as defined in the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food by 2020 – Provide food for tomorrow. In the context of the debate on the provision of Article 1 of the draft Law, the members of the Committee presented in particular their attitude towards GMOs and their opinion on the impact of GMO use on agricultural production from both an environmental and an economic perspective. In doing so, they expressed their belief that the future of Slovenian agriculture is in an integrated and, above all, organic agriculture, which provides products of high added value. This is all the more important from the point of view that in Slovenia more than 50% of the territory is under different security regimes. It is further noted that, despite the fact that only one genetically modified plant is allowed to grow throughout the European Union, the European Union allows imports of more than fifty different species of genetically modified plants, mostly used as feed for animals. This is disputed because European farmers producing feed plants have to compete with cheap genetically modified feed from imports and also because there is no regulation in Europe on labelling of food products which have been fed with genetically modified plants, so that consumers do not know what kind of meat they are actually buying. Therefore, if we are already banning the production of genetically modified plants in Slovenia, it would also make sense to prohibit imports of animal feed plants. In addition, genetically modified plants grown for human and animal consumption are patently protected, which means that farmers have to buy new seeds each year from corporations that own patent rights. This creates a situation where a handful of companies increasingly control the seeds by aggressive use of various forms of intellectual property protection, and to this initial, it places farmers in an increasingly subordinate position. It is particularly pointed out that the regulation of the area of genetically modified plants is closely linked to the adoption of a free trade agreement between the European Union and the USA, so-called TTIP, which is a threat to Slovenian agriculture. Therefore, if we want to increase self-sustainment, it is necessary to reduce the dependence on food imports in order to secure and accelerate both local food production and its promotion and impact. There is also fear that American food standards, which are significantly lower than in the European Union, will eventually reach us, and this will have a profound impact on the lower quality of food. The conclusion of the debate underlines that threats are high and therefore all stakeholders in the field of production, including the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, must ensure conditions for maintaining Slovenian agriculture and increasing self-sustainment. After the discussion, the Committee, as has already been said, adopted amendments to the coalition groups and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u95	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u96	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a Law on the Limitation and Prohibition of the Processing of Genetically Modified Plants is as follows: The Desus Group will support the Proposal for a Law on the Limitation or Prohibition of the Processing of Genetically Modified Plants, as it provides a legal basis for the adoption of measures to restrict or prohibit the production of such plants throughout the territory of Slovenia or only part of the territory. At the same time, the proposal represents the implementation of the Directive of the European Union, which regulates the possibility for Member States to restrict and prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory. As has already been said, the proposal of the law provides that certain genetically modified plants may be restricted or prohibited in Slovenia if their production would be contrary to the adopted objectives and measures of agricultural and environmental policy or spatial planning policy, or if the production of such plants would have negative socio-economic effects on agriculture, forestry or local self-government. In the Desus Group, we believe that one of the good layers of law is that it does not impose a general prohibition on the production of such plants, even though the prohibitions on the production of genetically modified plants will be adopted as an area of the whole country. As a matter of fact, we do well to assess the fact that by limiting the production of genetically modified plants in agriculture, we are preventing the possibility of an absolute monopoly on seeds by a handful of large multinationals who are already in control of the bulk of the global seed market, sown with genetically modified plants in the European Union, about 100,000 hectares. Members and Members of the parliamentary group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u97	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u98	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on the restriction and prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants, which lays down measures to restrict and prohibit the processing of genetically modified plants in Slovenia. It is important that we follow the decisions already taken, which will also meet the important objective of banning the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, as defined in the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food by 2020. In doing so, it is important to take into account the safety of people, the protection of the environment and also the will of the vast majority of people in Slovenia who demand that, in the face of ever-increasing capital pressure from multinationals such as Monsanto, as well as the ultimately uncertain outcome of the trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, we give a very clear message in Slovenia that we do not want to produce genetically modified organisms in the natural environment. Our natural environment is one that is certainly authentic for Slovenia and cannot be compared with other countries, because the fact is that it is extremely populated in Slovenia. The fact is that we also have a very fragmented structure of agricultural areas, which makes it impossible for us to have effective buffer belts where genetically modified organisms would not intervene. It is also true that when we entered the European Union's framework, about one third of the country's total surface area was defined as an environmentally protected area in the Natura 2000 regime, so it would also be somewhat contradictory if we acted differently today than we did in 2004. It should also be pointed out that in these efforts Slovenia is not alone at all, and the fact is that more and more European countries are doing the same as I hope that we will do today in our National Assembly, so it is of course very important that we are aware of all the procedures that will follow today's decision in the National Assembly, because the fact is that the European Food Safety Agency has already approved 59 different varieties of plants for import into the European Union. So it is possible that many genetically modified plants will still be brought and found in Slovenia, so it is not important that we try to listen to science, the one who cares about human health. One of these is certainly Martina Bavec of the Maribor Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystem Science, which says: "All of these varieties, including Monsanto 810 maize, which is authorised in Europe, are resistant to herbicides, especially the active substance glyphosate. However, many epidemiological studies have shown that low doses of glyphosate may present a high health risk, including hormonal disruptors, carcinogenicity, and embryo toxicity." Therefore, human health is crucial for the further successful development of Slovenia, and if we become dependent on multinationals in this regard, they will certainly dictate how healthy we can be, as much as not. And that's something that's certainly a frightening knowledge. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that it will be crucial to further raise awareness among people, consumers, that it is safer to buy locally processed food without genetically modified organisms. At the same time, of course, it is necessary to enable domestic food producers to compete on the market and to be able to produce solid food in their perspective and thus ensure long-term healthy nutrition and, of course, better human well-being in Slovenia. One of these tasks to be introduced in the wider European Union is certainly also the task of our Ministry of Agriculture to try to do so within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u99	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. The Law on the Limitation or Prohibition of Genetically Modified Plants is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the provisions of the European Directive, which allows countries to prohibit or restrict the production of genetically modified plants throughout the territory or part of the territory. The draft law lays down a number of measures that Slovenia may take to limit or prohibit the production of genetically modified plants, conditions and procedures for their adoption and elimination, the competent authority, the manner in which the European Commission and the Member States are notified of decisions taken concerning the restriction or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants, the appointment of a commission to assess the reasons for the restriction or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants and its tasks and competences. The growing proportion of plants used in the agricultural industry is now patently protected by multinational corporations. This problem is further exacerbated in the case of genetically modified plants currently available on the market and grown for human and animal consumption. The problem of monopolising the seed market and reducing self-sustainment and diversity of cultures resulting from the patent system does not need to be highlighted in particular. For most patent-protected products, farmers have to buy new seed from corporations each year. This creates control over reproductive material and puts farmers in a subordinate position vis-à-vis seed suppliers. Corporations can go so far as to sue farmers who produce seeds for the next crop alone. All of this puts farmers in complete dependence, whether they like it or not. On the contrary, we socialists are committed to free exchange of reproductive material and the unlimited right to improve agricultural varieties and breeds in common good. In the United Left Group, we advocate sustainable agriculture. Farming under a private, market-based, profitable tactic threatens the balanced development of agriculture in economic, social and environmental terms and is incompatible with integrated and organic agriculture, and we will therefore support the transposition of the directive in the United Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u101	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Green genetic technology is a new development chapter and puts us ahead of new and big challenges. Therefore, in the view of the Christian Democrats, all consequences must be carefully weighed before any decision to introduce genetically modified organisms. When introducing genetically modified organisms, all risks to biodiversity and any adverse effects on human nutrition should be carefully assessed. Slovenia has a rather natural, extensive food production advantage and, in our view, it needs to be exploited. Our country has already identified, in its 1993 strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture as a key objective, that it will take advantage of its advantages in particular in environmentally friendly forms of farming. This can be a major incentive and potential for the development of Slovenian agriculture, which can find its market niche right in the supply of organic food. In this regard, Christian Democrats also point to the question of achieving a higher level of self-sustainment, which is currently alarmingly low. We support such changes in European and national legislation, which will specify the conditions for the use of genetically modified organisms and ensure that consumers are thoroughly informed. Foods containing genetically modified organisms must be consistently labelled. The proposal for a law under consideration will allow the Republic of Slovenia to restrict or prohibit the production of certain genetically modified plants in part of the territory or throughout the territory. The restriction or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants may, on the basis of a proposal for a law, be adopted by means of a measure of geographical exclusion of the Republic of Slovenia from the authorisation to produce a particular genetically modified plant or group of genetically modified plants or by prohibiting the production of a particular genetically modified plant or group of genetically modified plants. Christian Democrats support the proposaler's decision not to impose a general ban, but to provide a legal basis in the law for a decision on the geographical exclusion or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants. We estimate that the law in the proposed form provides sufficient protection for Slovenian producers to produce their own seeds. In particular, indigenous and old varieties are important here, as some global multinational companies are trying to monopolize their position in the function of profit by offering patented genetically modified seeds and by the plant protection products to be used, under the threat of compensatory action against those who would not comply with their business plans. On the other hand, the proposal makes it possible for the State to decide freely on the production of a particular genetically modified plant and in our opinion it allows further research and development of this area, which, in our firm belief, is important in the light of the issue of the possibility of producing enough food for the global population. For all of this, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law on the restriction or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u103	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law we are adopting today represents a step closer to achieving the operational objective set out in the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food by 2020 – We provide food for tomorrow, this is a ban on the cultivation of genetically modified plants. I will only point out a few starting points that speak in favour of the adoption of the law that we support in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The general public opinion on genetically modified organisms is rejected. They are most opposed to the genetic change of animals, followed by the use of genetically modified organisms for animal feed and for human consumption. In Slovenia, 79 municipalities were already defined in 2007 that they do not want to produce genetically modified plants in their territory. The ban on the production of genetically modified plants prevents the inadvertent fertilisation of genetically modified plants and thus does not endanger organic farming. In Slovenia we have just over 3 000 200 organic farms, representing 4.6% of farms in Slovenia with just over 41,000 hectares of agricultural land in use. Member States which are legally able to limit or prohibit the production of genetically modified plants must nevertheless allow the transit of these organisms across their territory. In this regard, it is essential that the enforcement of the law increase the control of transit and, of course, the import of seeds into the country. Slovenia imports seed maize and other seeds, which represents the potential for contamination of seeds with genetically modified seeds. This will protect producers and consumers. The production of genetically modified plants poses a potential risk to human health and the environment due to a low degree of research into certain effects. Today, two genetically modified properties dominate. This is resistance to herbicide glyphosate, to the suppression of weeds and the ability to produce natural insecticide. In 2013, a statement was issued within the framework of the European network of scientists for social and environmental responsibility, which was joined by 313 independent scientists by 20 January 2015. The statement reads: "There is no scientific consensus on the safety of genetically modified organisms." Finally, it is one of the most important reasons against the production of genetically modified organisms that production represents support for poor agricultural practices, which, on behalf of science and multinationals, generates profits. Farmers are forced to purchase such patented seeds every year. In the Modern Centre Group, we assess that the proposal for a law on the restriction or prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants is necessary as it provides conditions for the preservation of Slovenian agriculture and the increase of self-sustainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u105	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u106	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on the restriction or prohibition of genetically modified organisms, as this law transposes into our legal order a European directive which entered into force on 2 April, which also gives a certain transitional period of six months in which countries can limit the production of genetically modified organisms that already have a permit or are in the process of obtaining a permit. Therefore, it is high time that we accept this month, and I hope that the Government will set up a commission that will be successful in banning genetically modified organisms or production from us. Slovenian agriculture is because of its smallness and because of its specificities, where about three quarters of the agricultural land in the area of limited farming factors, especially mountain farms, and because of its land and parcel fragmentation, is even more sensitive to the introduction of genetically modified organisms, because we do not have the option to define certain protection zones because the parcels are so small and each other. On the other hand, our self-sustainment is also worrying, since we have so low self-sustainment that we are already threatened with some food sovereignty where we should have at least 80 or 85% self-sustainment, but it is now significantly lower. Since European agricultural policy only allows the cultivation or production of genetically modified plants, we are concerned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such crops will come to Slovenia and will be used by farmers in livestock farming and will be difficult to control. On the other hand, home-grown feed will not be competitive and our food supply will only fall. We are also concerned about the new trade agreement between Europe and America, because we know that food safety standards in America are much lower than in us, that it has a pesticide or plant protection product content in food far higher than in Europe and even in Europe. By adopting this agreement, we fear that these regulations will also be transposed into European agricultural policy and will further threaten the competitiveness of our agriculture. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Republic, we stress that there is a need to focus significantly more on locally produced food, as only so locally produced food will provide some food security so that we know what kind of food we are buying and eating. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that the Government will succeed in determining this commission and that the Commission will succeed in banning as many of these genetically modified organisms in Slovenia. If not in certain areas, for some also in the whole country. Once again, we will support this marriage, but it would be better to make it material earlier, not to hunt for the last time in an extraordinary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-16-SDZ7-Izredna-18.ana.u107	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We move on to the consideration of the decision to terminate the term of office of the President of the Defence Committee As of 17 July 2015, Ambassador Peter Wilfan had ceased to be a member of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, which is why the National Assembly on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was informed of the following decision: First of all, it is concluded that the Member of Peter Wilfan had ceased to be a member of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. As a result of the termination of the membership of the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek shall cease to serve as President of the Defence Committee. Secondly, the Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. We move on to the consideration of the Decision on the termination of the presidency of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth Magnificent messages. On 9 September 2015, due to the termination of the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek ceased to be a member of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Therefore, pursuant to Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the National Assembly shall be informed of the following decision: First, it shall be established that the Members are mags. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček ceased to be a member of the Alliance's Group Alenka Bratušek due to the termination of the Group of Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Due to the termination of the Group of Ambassadors, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček shall cease to serve as Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Another time. The Members shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item as well as the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform the members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy that the 29th meeting of the Committee will begin at 4 p.m. in the Grand Salon. Thank you.
