ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Klaudija Markež, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 11 a.m., Mrs Vojka Šergan by 11 a.m., Mrs Andreja Potočnik from 3 p.m. on, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Benedict Kopmajer, mag. Ange Logar, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Primož Hainz by 3 p.m., Mr Uroš Prikl, Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Branko Grims, alone from 12.30 p.m. to 2 p.m., Mr. Jan Mahnic from 3 p.m., Mr. Igor Zorčič to 11 p.m. and Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker from 16 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of a bill to amend the building laws according to the emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Messengers and Members! At the end of 2013, an amendment to the Law on the Construction of Buildings was established, which, on the basis of Article 156a of the Law, allowed certain specific cases of illegal construction to decide on the enforcement of inspection decisions, namely a one-year delay in the case of the residence of an inspection debtor or other persons who do not have another suitable apartment under the provisions of the Housing Law, or if the facility in which the economic activity is carried out and the decision to execute the decision could result in serious economic damage; a maximum of three years' delay in the case of the legalisation of the illegal construction undertaking in the municipality, an initiative to amend the spatial act was put in place and adopted by the municipality, which would allow the building permit to be obtained, and until the decision to issue the building permit was taken, if a complete request for authorisation was made. In any of these cases, the delay was not possible in ordinary constructions that directly endanger human life and health, transport, environment and property. The solution described was taken on the basis of a decision of the Government at the end of 2013 to proceed with the preparation and procedure of the adoption of a specific law which will regulate the conditions for the legalisation of facilities. On the basis of that decision, the Government was prepared in 2014 and the draft Law on the Management of Unauthorised Construction was transmitted to the public for a one-month public debate. Due to the resignation of the Government in spring 2014 the Government no longer had the power to coordinate, adopt legislative proposals, so in autumn 2014, on the basis of a number of initiatives by the interested professional public in the public debate, the Government decided to take into account the initiative on the simultaneous preparation and adoption of comprehensive spatial legislation and the legal basis for the legalisation of facilities. The amendments to spatial and building legislation are contained in the 2015 work programme of the Government and are foreseen for adoption by the Government at the end of 2015. In spite of this, it should be pointed out that the solution described at the same time is a systemic solution which, irrespective of the adoption of the law on legalisation, constitutes a legal basis for taking into account the principle of proportionality in the implementation of the inspection measures, taking into account the social and economic component or taking into account the likelihood that the illegal construction could be legalised on the basis of the professionally justified amendment of the spatial act or the proposed requirement for the issue of a building permit. In cases where it is shown that specific illegal constructions will not be legalised, the prescribed deferral period shall allow the appropriate time required to provide a replacement real estate for resettlement. With the proposed amendment to Article 156a, which is the subject of today's treatment, it is proposed to extend and unify the time limits for the postponement of enforcement to 5 years by extending the deferral deadlines in the already issued inspection decisions to allow deferrals to official duties. The extension of this period is not only necessary because of one-year delays in executions, but also on the basis of an assessment of the implementation of this provision in practice, which shows that a one-year or three-year deferral period is often not long enough to regulate everything necessary, either with regard to legalisation or with regard to the provision of a replacement facility and resettlement. Finally, with regard to the criterion of adequate residence, the Administrative Court also drew attention to this point in a specific case in which, in a similar argument, it terminated the decision-making process and initiated a constitutional review procedure with regard to the provisions on measures to be taken in the field of illegal construction, which is still pending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u3	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and Representative of the Government! Report of the Committee to the Proposal for a Law amending the Construction Act. The Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee shall be held at its 9th emergency meeting, on 24. 2. 2015 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending the Construction Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. On behalf of the proposer, the Minister for Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, explained the history and purpose of the proposed arrangement. At the end of 2013, a new law on the construction of buildings was introduced which, on the basis of Article 156a of the Law, provided for the postponement of inspection decisions in certain specific cases of illegal construction. The amendment gave rise to a one-year stay of inspection decisions in respect of the residence of an inspection debtor or other persons who do not have a suitable residence under the provisions of the Housing Law, and where it concerns an establishment in which an economic activity is carried out, when the execution of the decision could cause worse economic damage, that is to say, a maximum of 3 years of delay if the undertaking has taken an initiative to amend the spatial act to legalise the illegal construction of the municipality and it has been accepted by the municipality, allowing it to obtain a building permit. The deferral was also legal in cases where the inspection undertaking submitted a complete request for a building permit or a valid permit. In any of these cases, it has not been possible to delay in hazardous constructions that directly endanger human life and health, transport, environment and property. The proposed amendment to Article 156a prolongs the postponement of enforcement to 5 years by extending the deferral deadlines in the already issued inspection decisions on the authorisation of postponement to an official duty. Mr Jernej Verbič, President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, stressed in his presentation of the opinion of the Council of State, that they support a solution in the proposal for a postponement of executions in the event of an illegal construction from one or three years to a maximum of five years. In addition to the principle of support, he drew attention to some of the Commission's concerns with regard to the issue under consideration. In the debate, MEPs expressed their support for the bill, while opinions differed on the length of the moratorium, and concerns were also expressed as to whether legislation would be amended appropriately within the moratorium period or whether the moratorium would not need to be extended again, given that the amendment of this legislation had also been announced in previous mandates. It was highlighted that the solution could give a negative signal and result in the continuation of construction without obtaining appropriate permits, as the provision, in addition to owners of already built black buildings, will also protect those who will build buildings without suitable permits during the next 5-year period. However, it was clarified by the representatives of the proposer that the last amendment of the law of postponement was only legal for the cases of construction which had been initiated before the entry into force of the said amendment. The proposed extension of the period for the postponement of execution does not change this, which means that the provision will not apply to cases of unauthorized construction which will start after the previous amendment has been implemented, i.e. after 28. 12. 2013 In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending the building law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Welcome to the government, colleagues and colleagues. Immanuel Kant told us that time and space are aprior to the category of spirit. At least we know that from then on. And this marriage novel deals with non-regulation or, if you want, regulating space in some prolonged time element. So let's do it in a row. The representative of the Government said very well that the envisaged systemic solutions, which we do not yet have on the plate in Parliament, were somewhat legal. This is a problem that has a very long beard, and because it is not yet a solution, this extension is proposed for five years, including, as the lady said, due to experience in practice, that it does not go so fast. Black construction is unfortunately almost folklore in Slovenia. I know that very well as a space sociologist. What kind of party in the National Assembly would say that this is the seat of the previous system, what kind of historian might have found the reasons for this even in Central Norik. That's a fact. We have a new Parliament, we have talked a lot about new policies. Who are the culprits for this situation? Not so small a man who is trying to save a barn, a cow, etc., the main culprits are all three branches of authority, including some inspection services, and this people from the spatial profession we don't like, the profession and the experts. On the committee, when the debate took place, I have to say literally, with the exception of the two MPs from the SDS who were the mayor, and me, I had the feeling that somehow others think that there is no legislation at all. Legislation on this subject exists, but is not implemented in practice. If something small is broken, it is usually done to a small man, a poor man who does not have proper relationships at home. In the media, there's a lot of talk in the yellow press about some black constructions by former directors of Eles, about a former director who's not on the run anymore who's legalizing something at a distance. Of course, they find some legal loopholes to do this, but the vast majority of these black buildings, close to 99% of them, are black constructions of some small people, as we sometimes say, ordinary citizens and citizens who want to solve their housing situation, want to create something in the economy and go into it too often because the state does not give them those conditions that are also enshrined in the constitution. What do you need? Systemic solutions are needed, more life legislation is needed, especially with regard to simple facilities, colleague Laha is not here to talk about building blocks, auxiliary facilities, simple facilities. Finally, after 25 years of introduction of urbanism and architecture into education, free counselling, quality typical projects are needed. Instead of just loading wood, we need to think about what we are going to build, how much we are going to build from wood. We are against such a novelty in the United Left because we simply do not agree to this kind of lengthening condition. Of course, part of the blame lies here also in the municipalities, in all the stigmatism surrounding the adoption of -s and the OPPPNs, but earlier this reason is in awkwardly prepared legislation how to accept it. Sometimes you have to go look only in the immediate circumstances, over the planks. On legalisation, the committee could sit on a train and study in Croatia. We could take a train to Austria to learn more about life’s legislation. We're in the United Left against this proposal. I hope that we will get this law by the end of 2015 because my colleague Zorčič, who runs the committee, said that this will be settled within five years. And there's already some disciplinarian in the statement. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Once again, we have before us a new Law on Construction of Buildings. And we're talking again about delaying the enforcement of inspection decisions. This time those who have already been suspended and constitute an exception to the rule of law that enforcement can only be postponed once. In this way, the Government clearly shows its incompetence and powerlessness in the area, which has long been calling for systemic changes both in terms of black buildings and in terms of improving the business environment and consequently increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Only such changes and additions to the Construction of Buildings Act, which would put our country at the side of countries that operate economically with their premises, can help to fully regulate and address the shortcomings that we face at every step. In the New Slovenia Group, we support efforts for a fair regime that will allow equal status for all builders on the basis of a clear spatial strategy. We are convinced that only a partial solution to this problem is not the key to respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law, nor is it the rule of law. The fact is that the proposed amendment to the law does not bring about any other than a partial and temporary solution to the legalisation of illegal works. For it is only a matter of renewing the deadline for enforcement, i.e. a deferral of obligations which should have already been fulfilled. Although this will only delay the execution of illegal constructions that represent residential buildings in which persons who do not have another suitable apartment reside, or the construction in which economic activity is carried out and the implementation of an inspection measure would be a serious economic damage, and the illegal construction for which an initiative to change the spatial act has been put in place in the congregation, we believe that the amendment does not eliminate the inequalities of all inspection agents. So we have a lot of open questions. It is the same treatment of permitted and unauthorised constructions. What will happen after the expiry of the extended period for the enforcement of the inspection decisions if there is still a reason for the postponement? Finally, it is also questioned that certain illegal constructions that do not constitute illegal works to which the proposal for this novel applies still do not have enforceable legal inspection decisions or are being quietly delayed. We Christian Democrats are therefore convinced that it would be a time to establish a legal framework that would prevent further illegal construction, since we are not solving the underlying problem simply by putting off the same problems. As more and more than half of the deferred executions relate to the proposed initiatives of the inspectors to amend the spatial act and there are still around 100 municipal spatial acts in the adoption process, there is a high likelihood that they will not be adopted in the five-year period. And what will follow then? Then we will witness the renewal of this deadline. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, despite many concerns, we will support the amendment of the Construction Law. In doing so, we are particularly guided by the fact that the demolition of illegal constructions which would cause irreparable damage to their owners, given the fact that the legislation allowed them to obtain a house number and to register a permanent residence or to carry out an activity without permission. This also allowed the existence of such buildings to exist quietly. In the New Slovenia Group, despite all the concerns I have raised through the position, we will support this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u9	The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, a magi for him. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In 2013, a new Law on the Construction of Buildings was adopted which provided for a legal possibility of a one-time postponement of execution for illegal construction, for which a decision on the removal of the facility had already been issued. Unauthorized constructions were classified into two groups according to this novel. The first group envisioned a one-year extension of the suspension of executions for illegal construction, which are residential buildings, and the persons who reside in them do not have another suitable apartment, and for the illegal construction in which the economic activity is carried out and the execution would result in more severe economic damage. In the second group to which the novelty envisaged a three-year extension, however, there are illegal works for which an initiative to amend the spatial act in the municipality has been put in place. At that time, such an arrangement was intended to allow sufficient time for the legislator to draw up a legal basis that would finally solve the problem of illegal construction and determine which are the constructions that would be able to legalise. Although some of the debtors have already reached a one-year deadline and others will, there is still no legal basis and it is still expected that this area will be finally settled. The Ministry also proposes to extend the deadlines of both groups to 5 years until the relevant legislation is drawn up, i.e. for both groups. We believe that the destruction of illegal construction is an act that can have difficult remedial consequences for the debtors, and we therefore agree with the objectives of the bill in principle. But the question that I have also raised on the competent working body is whether it is not a five-year deadline for the first group of facilities, i.e. for those for whom a one-year period has been foreseen, only a little too long. It is precisely because of this dilemma that we have tabled an amendment in the Alliance for the Consideration of the Law on the Labour Body, proposing that the deadline for the first group be extended to a total of 3 years and for the second group to a total of 5 years, as foreseen here. In the Alliance, we are convinced that an additional 2 years are sufficient, either to prepare legal basis for illegal construction or to solve the housing problem. Here in particular, I would like to point out that the solutions to the housing problem are not in any way merely understood as a solution to alternative construction, as more options are available, including those involving renting apartments. The amendment did not receive sufficient support. Moreover, he was rejected by arguing that the solution, as proposed, was more socially sensitive. In the Alliance, after careful consideration, we decided not to invest in the new amendment. We will also not oppose the law, because we agree with the purpose and objectives in principle, but precisely because of the dilemma I have raised, we will not support it either. With interest in the future, we will monitor the developments and, in particular, the solutions that you will offer for construction that will never be legalised, but with today's novel you will allow them a further 5 years of delay to remove the facility. At that time, the social distress of those who do not have an adequate housing facility will be the same as that of a shorter term, only hope and ultimately disappointment will be greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u11	The word is sent by the SMC Group, for her mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposal to amend the law before us today is to change the time limit for the postponement of enforcement from one or three years to a total of five years. There are about a thousand 200 cases of inspection of the debtors whose deadlines expire at the beginning of 2015, of which about a thousand have been submitted motions for deferment. However, the period shall be extended only to the extent that the difference between the new legal period and the time elapsed from the original fixed period is the difference. In the SMC Group, we support the proposed amendment of the Construction Act, since the instrument of postponement of execution in the event of unauthorized construction avoids any compensation liability of the country to which it would have occurred if the legislation adopted later allowed the inspectors to have the conditions of legalisation. It prevents the occurrence of greater property damage for both the state and the citizens. We should also avoid social hardships in which there would be incurring incursions which do not already have a second suitable apartment or would be in serious economic damage as a result of the implementation of the inspection measure. The extension of this period, as we have already heard, is not only necessary because of the duration of one-year execution delays, but also on the basis of an assessment of the implementation of this provision in practice, which shows that a one-year or three-year deferral period is often not sufficient to regulate everything necessary in relation to legalisation. Since the Government's work programme provides for the adoption of legislative proposals, which will also include content relating to the legalisation of illegal works, it makes sense that this postponement is actually extended. In doing so, we stress and also understand that the extension of this deadline does not mean that the reform of legislation and the legal basis for legalisation will only be adopted in five years because the Government's work programme envisages this amendment at the end of 2015. The extension of this deadline does not mean that we are giving a signal to the new black builders today that they can still continue to do so, as the current amendment of the law says that this is only true for those who have built black buildings before 28. 12. 2013 Of course, the postponement does not remove the causes of black construction and it is not the solution for those who have taken the initiative to amend spatial legislation, but it is not justified or evident that this initiative is not justified. It is therefore a fact that there are still concerns. And we stress the need to address the causes and prevent black construction already on the ground, to clearly define a spatial planning strategy with new legislation, and also to adequately strengthen the Environment and Space Inspectorate, which is currently clearly undernourished. The work of the inspection services in the field is extremely important, as the existing legislation gives them clear definitions of how and what to do, and this practice needs to be discontinued. As the length of building permits in the Republic of Slovenia has been exposed to the debate, let us mention that the whole process consists of three steps. It is said that the adoption of spatial acts, the OPN, the DPN, then essentially assesses environmental impacts or environmental permits, environmental consensus as regards the Environmental Protection Act, thirdly, a narrower construction process is allowed. When we compare these procedures with each other, we need to take all three steps into account, for in each of them there can be a stalemate. The last two proceedings are in our legal order completely separate proceedings, as the Constitutional Court has already said many times. In the SMC Group, we support the proposed law, which prolongs the moratorium on the demolition of illegal construction. At the same time, as has already been said, we are aware that delays in executions are mainly due to the fact that a further proposed amendment to legislation that will effectively address the issue of illegal construction lays down criteria and the legalisation process itself and lays the foundations for a comprehensive regulation of the premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u13	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, distinguished president, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment to the Law on the Construction of Objects, which we have before us following an urgent procedure, amends only one article in this part to extend certain decisions for a further two years. In this way, we give in some ways only to certain resources that have not done their work in the past. Both inspection services and the Ministry. As a Member who has been sitting in these benches for a long time, I have been hearing about the system law on space regulation for at least the last 6 years or 7 years. Even to regulate the law that will solve the problem of black construction, it was promised to be ready by the end of 2014. We heard on the committee that this law, by the Minister, was said to be in the procedure until summer and that it will be adopted by the end of 2015. If that were the case, we would probably not have a proposal to extend it for the next five years on the table following an urgent procedure. And it's hard to fool around that it's just some sort of maneuver in the sense that we're solving some sort of problem. It should be borne in mind that such a law also signals new builders, and thus does not solve this problem absolutely. And to talk about if we don't extend it, we're going to destroy someone's facility and there's going to be some damage. But do not be blind, for the law is now valid, and we have not broken any of them. Whether he will extend this decision or not, no inspector will break it. We all know that. And we write some papers to paint our own eyes, but nothing really happens. It is therefore very difficult to uphold such a law. Especially because someone says that this will be resolved by the end of this year and at the same time talks about a five-year transitional period. I don't think there's anything standing here. We are all aware that most of these black buildings are linked to the non-acceptance of spatial plans. Most local communities have prepared this to a large extent, and it stops mainly at ministries. Above all, at the Ministry of Agriculture in the past, and in some other decision makers in the area who understand the ZUP in their own way, when they decide when someone puts these matters into action, they must respect this very much. And until we solve these problems, black constructions will continue to develop, because you can't imagine that someone, I don't know, would wait five or ten years for permission to make an excuse for a house, because someone was born in the middle of it or someone got married to it, and so on. And we don't solve these problems with this law and this novel, which only prolongs a certain period of time. It has been said that it will in some way allow for some actions not to be brought by individuals to the country, but I really cannot imagine how this could happen. On the other hand, the country is throwing away money that could be collected from these blacksmiths and thus complete the budget, and in particular could improve the budget of local communities, which clearly from black constructions, cannot collect those fees that can be collected from other legally built buildings. We are doing economic damage to local communities and to citizens and to the country with such transitional periods. We will not oppose this law in the Group of Members, but all responsibility is taken by the coalition or ministry that has proposed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a new law on the construction of buildings, which will extend the postponement of the implementation of the inspection decision on the demolition of illegal construction to five years. Let me remind you that these are illegal constructions that constitute an apartment building in which persons who do not have another suitable apartment are staying or that illegal constructions in which an economic activity is carried out and the implementation of an inspection measure would be at risk of serious economic damage. For them, the proposal for enforcement will therefore be extended from one to five years. The current law, which we are amending today, entered into force on 28 December 2013 so that certain debtors of the legal basis for deferral will expire. As the Ministry has informed us, 157 executions were postponed for these two types of construction at the beginning of this year. However, at the beginning of the year 274 executions were postponed. For these constructions, it is possible to postpone demolitions for three years after the law has been in force, and the amendment will allow the demolition to be postponed for five years. At the beginning of this year, however, there were such illegal works for which an application for a construction or utility permit has been submitted. For these, it will remain in force that the deferral is possible until the finality of the decision on the request for a building permit. In the event that the deadline for enforcement is not extended, the enforcement of the inspection decisions could result in greater property damage to the State, since in such cases, after the adoption of the legal basis for legalisation, damages could be brought. The European Court of Human Rights has also drawn up a position on a number of issues in this area that legislation should take into account the right of everyone to respect his home in the field of the law of inspections in illegal works, and in this context should also take into account the principle of proportionality in the standardisation of the scope of the implementation of inspection measures. Therefore, the extension of the deadline for cases of illegal constructions representing residential buildings in which persons who do not have another suitable residence are resident is also a follow-up to the practice of the European Court of Justice. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe it is right that in cases where we would cause even greater distress to someone who is socially threatened or in cases where everything indicates that legalisation will actually be carried out, we do not create additional problems through legislation, but we help them solve them. As we say, we will support the proposal of the new law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u18	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats we will support the proposed amendment of the Construction Act, which will extend the period of postponement of inspection measures in the area of illegal construction, non-compliant construction and facilities used without a prescribed usable permit. Following the adoption of the amendment of the law at the end of 2013, a one-year extension of the inspection decisions was enacted in respect of the residence of an inspection debtor or other persons who do not have another suitable residence under the provisions of the Housing Law, or if the establishment in which the economic activity is carried out and the enforcement of the decision could result in worse economic damage, and a maximum of three years of deferral if an undertaking has taken the initiative to amend the spatial act to legalise the illegal construction of the municipality and it has been adopted by the municipality, allowing it to obtain a building permit. The deferral was also legal in cases where the inspection undertaking submitted a complete request for a building or usable permit. In any event, it was not possible to delay in dangerous constructions that directly endanger human life and health, environment and property. Nor will the postponement cover or cover illegal constructions that began after the entry into force of the previous novel is after 28. 12. 2013 The two deadlines for deferrals of inspection measures are hereby extended to five years. The key reason for the extension of deadlines is that a specific law on the handling of illegal works is being drawn up at the competent Ministry, which will regulate the conditions for the legalisation of buildings which have been built in contravention of the rules in force. For this reason, they would not have done the right thing if they had not adopted this law and consequently allowed the carrying out of inspections of the demolition of the facility, and it would have been established that the owners could legalise the damaged objects after the application of that law. In this way, high compensation claims against the State could be made, so it is appropriate to delay the implementation of the inspection measures. It may seem to some that a five-year delay is too long, but we do not share this opinion in the Group of Social Democrats. It is important to know that the road to the adoption and implementation of the Law on the Treatment of Unauthorised Constructions is still relatively long, since it is a very complex legal issue, where we will have to be careful not to cross constitutional regulations and not to create new injustices when deciding what is right and what is wrong. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that the legalisation procedures themselves will not be carried out overnight and that some owners of facilities that will not be successful in the process of legalisation will have to provide a replacement facility where they can move in time. In the Social Democrats Group, we therefore expect the Ministry of Environment and Space to draw up in due course a proposal for a law on the handling of illegal construction, which will enjoy the widest possible support of the legal, environmental, construction and other professions and will provide a good basis for the consideration and decision-making of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on the state prosecution after the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u20	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! We have before us the continuation of that package of first steps that we discussed yesterday, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Three key things are worth saying about this law. In one part, the law corrects certain editorial shortcomings. It's a marriage that was adopted a few years ago and tried to change several times, but then things stayed in the drawer. Another thing that's important and that we talked about yesterday in a similar way as with judges and judges. This law also implements GRECO recommendations concerning prosecutors and prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia, introduces mechanisms and instruments for decision-making and perception of corruption risks and ethical codes within the prosecution organisation, in which the National Prosecutor's Council will play a key role. I would not explain this in more detail now because it is very similar if not even the same solution as in the case of the Courts Act and the Judicial Service Act yesterday. The next thing that is also important is that all other legal solutions concern the organisational and institutional strengthening of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, in particular in connection with the work in the area of confiscation of illegal property benefits. So let's say the law removes the staffing restrictions for the appointment of new state prosecutors to the Special Prosecutor's Office with specific knowledge. In practice, this means that the Special Prosecutor's Office will be able to say, in a specific case for the so-called civilian financial department, the real department dealing with the seizure of assets of illegal origin, which is being held before civil courts, not before criminal courts, has been recruited, by domestic experts, such as judges from this area, state lawyers and so on, and they will not have to go through, we will say, classical state prosecution procedures. The limitation of the duration of the provisional allocation of the State Prosecutor's Office to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office shall be lifted and simplifications shall be adopted with regard to the allocation of cases under the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor's Office to the State Prosecutor's Office from the local competent district attorney's office. Thus, certain red tape in terms of redistribution and allocation of cases is hereby terminated here. A special internal organisational unit shall be established in the Special Prosecutor's Office, a unit or department of procedure for the confiscation of assets of illicit origin, i.e. a civil financial unit whose exclusive jurisdiction would be to file claims for insurance and confiscation of illegally acquired property before civil courts. It is then possible for a district attorney or district prosecutor to appear at a hearing or hearing together with a state prosecutor, who has the name of a senior state prosecutor, to represent a criminal charge in the first instance. This is very simplistic because of the entrenchedness of the work of the state prosecutors, you have today, especially in the Special Prosecutor's Office, when an individual from the beginning directs the investigation, defends the charge in the first instance, and then when the complaint comes to light, in fact, this role is assumed by the Chief Prosecutor, who, in fact, because of the knowledge of the file and so on, is very reasonable, effective and necessary in order to be able to defend the complaint by those who have also started the procedure. One last thing, then. As we discussed yesterday, the Law on Judicial Service, which introduced certain new conditions for the occupation of the job, according to the judge, at home. This is, of course, also introduced for state prosecutors because the State Prosecutor's Office Act refers to the Judicial Service Act. In this law, we only give the State Prosecutor's Council the authority to conduct interviews in the process of appointing state prosecutors. Believe it or not, he didn't have that option before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u21	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Justice is held at the first meeting of 6th session. 2. In 2015, the Government submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The reduced procedure was also confirmed by the National Assembly. The representative of the proposed Minister of Justice said in an additional explanation that the proposed law follows the recommendation of a group of countries of the Council of Europe against GRECO corruption. The State Prosecutor's Council will therefore be responsible for the adoption of the Code of State Prosecutor's Ethics, which will be binding on all state prosecutors, and for the appointment of an Ethics and Integrity Commission, and for the adoption of a policy of perception and control of corruption risks and the exposure of state prosecutors, in agreement with the Council of State Prosecutors. The proposed law also introduces changes in the field of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, allowing for the nomination of experts with specific knowledge of the state prosecutor's office in the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The limitation of the duration of the provisional award of the state prosecutor to the Special Prosecutor's Office shall be lifted and the award procedure simplified. In the case of the Special Prosecutor’s Office, a special section for procedures relating to the confiscation of assets of illegal origin is hereby established and it provides for the allocation of state defence attorneys to carry out more demanding professional work at the Specialized State Prosecutor’s Office. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that most of their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. It reiterated its comment on Articles 3, 7 and 8 concerning the Code of State Prosecutors Ethics, the policy of perception and management of corruption risks, and the Commission on Ethics and Integrity. In view of the autonomous nature of ethical codes, it is a matter of obligation to lay down the Code of State Prosecutors' Ethics, which may also include the content to be laid down by law, and it is also the view of the Legislative and Legal Service that their impact on the applicable legal rules relating to the conduct and conduct of state prosecutors, which may threaten the independence, impartiality and integrity of state prosecutors and the reputation of the State Prosecutor's Office. The State Council presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law taking into account any comments that may be made. The representative of the State Attorney's Office said that the proposed law contained only part of the amendments that had been aligned with each competent minister for many years. Among other things, there are other open issues of the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Prosecutor's Order, the exercise of judicial supervision and the integration of the minutes with public records. He therefore expressed the expectation that the regulation would be recast more comprehensively. He further pointed out that the proposed law entails several new powers of the state prosecutors and that they were not able to harmonise all solutions in the rapid process of their preparation, in particular with regard to representation in the Court of Appeal and the transposition of the recommendations of GRECO. He pointed out, however, that the ethical code was supposed to be an autonomous record of the rules of the housing organisation and, in the light of the proposed amendments, was to be accepted by the State Prosecutors Council, which was not composed solely of state prosecutors. Public prosecutors are aware of their responsibilities and responsibilities in the field of prosecution ethics and integrity and therefore act accordingly. However, there is also a Code of Association of Public Prosecutors, which applies only to its members. In the debate, opposition Members opposed the short-term adoption of the proposed novel and the proposed amendments, which are not thought out and coordinated with the state prosecutors, while failing to carry out an analysis of the state prosecutor's situation do not cover all the necessary solutions. They considered that the Code of Ethics, as the highest moral act, was effective only if it was adopted and uniform by all those concerned, not that it was prescribed or enforced. The Coalition Members considered that the treatment following a regular procedure would not change anything and warned that human rights cannot exist without obligation and responsibility. The Committee then adopted amendments from SMC, DeSUS and SD to Articles 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 16, 18 and 22 and did not adopt amendments from the SDS Group to Articles 7 and 24. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments and the addition of the State Prosecutor's Act is part of a package of so-called mini judicial reform, which is only by name but not by content. As we have presented our position on the amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, we also point out in the amendment of the Law on State Prosecutor's Office that there are no criteria for so far being staffed by the State Prosecutor's Office, which will obviously continue, as the proposal for a amendment to this Act does not provide criteria for the selection of candidates for appointment to the State Prosecutor's Office. These remain within the jurisdiction or, rather, the discretion of the State Prosecutor’s Council. To ensure that members of the State Prosecutor's Council do not take any responsibility for their decisions as a member of the State Prosecutor's Council, a parallel to the Council of Justice shall apply in this regard. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior in the explanation of the law only notes that in the recruitment of state prosecutors, it is necessary to give priority to candidates who have knowledge of accounting and economics, which is important in the prosecution of economic crime. This is a fact that the Ministry has seen sadly too late. We are very late in the pursuit of economic crime. We are very slow to investigate and prosecute banking crime, whose dimensions we are well aware of when the necessary recapitalisations of state banks are needed. At this point, we cannot pass the criticism of the slow work of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which has promised that the offences of banking crime will be completed by the end of 2014, in the light of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which means that requests for investigations or direct indictments will be filed. At the last joint meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Justice, we have heard a prediction that banking crime cases will await the final epilogue after ten or fifteen years. We hope that this has not been taken seriously, since, otherwise, we can conclude that most cases will be closed by putting an end to the case of outdatedness and we hope that such a way of completing the proceedings is not already in the plan of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. We are also critical of the implementation of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office in the area of the confiscation of property of illegal origin. The law is practically not implemented. However, no one takes responsibility for non-execution, although it is clear which state prosecutors are assigned or appointed to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, to whom an individual case is assigned, and not least who is running the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. We wonder where their responsibilities are. We listen to a lot of excuses. From the fact that it's a new institute, that it's not a case-law, that there's no human resources potential, and even more. It is interesting, however, that the problem of non-implementation of legislation is faced only with us. In other countries, the Institute for the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin introduced into their system quickly and effectively and in the first year of law enforcement collected millions of assets of illegal origin. The only reason this does not work in our country is, in our opinion, the lack of responsibility for the work of state prosecutors. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats for the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office will not be supported, because in our opinion, the minor amendments introduced by the amendment of the law will not constitute the necessary shift towards a faster and more effective part of the State Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u25	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u26	Have a nice hello! Today we'll have a sequel, the one we saw yesterday. This law, which in fact regulates quite a few good definitions in the field of prosecution, of course, has one major flaw. This is again based on the recommendations of GRECA, we push the code into normative activity and prescribe it. We even prescribe that he should have a commission. And one of the main warnings that we have already pointed out on the committee is that the moment the state begins to prescribe norms, ethics and so on, it loses its basic purpose of the code, some ethical principles that the interior or the housing group of the individual areas and applies equally to prosecutors. Prosecutors already have their own rules or standards. Today, of course, there is more or less always one and the same excuse, if not all internalized, not everyone accepted it, not everything and so on. But the rule is clear. The moment it is prescribed by someone who is not a prosecutor, it becomes a marriage obligation, not a code, and it does not achieve that basic objective. And this is that the prosecutors would actually internalize this within their own apartment. Of course, we are opposed to that. However, given how laws are being passed from this package by the Ministry of Justice, this will also appear to be accepted. Have a good trip to making the wrong decisions! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u27	The text is given by the SMC Group, for which Mrs Ksenija Rootjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows! The proposal for a State Prosecutor's Office Act is being considered following a reduced procedure, as it is less difficult to comply with the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin and with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. In addition, it is a matter of harmonisation with European Union law in the work relating to the establishment of a GRECA point of contact for cooperation with the Bureau for the confiscation of the assets of other EU Member States and the fulfilment of GRECA's international obligations and recommendations. However, all these amendments and additions are without prejudice to the system of the State Prosecutor's Office. The solutions proposed are based on the proposals for urgent measures proposed by the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with matters of faster and better quality, which are a priority in the policy of pursuing economic crime and corruption. For the prosecution of most cases of economic crime and corruption, however, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible and the proposed legislative changes and additions will make it possible to operate more efficiently and in an appropriate and stable manner. The proposed amendments also aim to remove the staffing restrictions for the appointment of new state prosecutors with specific knowledge, to ensure greater flexibility in the allocation of state prosecutors and to remedy editorial shortcomings in the transfer of powers in the field of the State Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry of Justice. In the light of the implementation of the GRECA recommendations in the work, which provides for the establishment of clear standards of conduct and behaviour in the conduct of the state prosecution service and establishes a code of conduct, the aim of the amendment is also to provide an adequate legal basis for the adoption of a code of business conduct which will bind all state prosecutors. The State Prosecutor's Council is given new powers to adopt the Code of State Prosecutor's Ethics. In doing so, the State Prosecutor's Council is given the highest possible degree of autonomy in terms of the regulation and working methods of the Ethics and Integrity Commission in the State Prosecutor's Council, and only a formal framework is laid down and a legal basis is given for the implementation of measures aimed at strengthening state-level ethics and integrity. Ethical professional rules do not interfere with the independence of the state prosecutor, nor with the regulations of state prosecutors, but are intended to prevent abuse and institutionalisation of the state prosecutor for various social policy purposes. The SMC Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u29	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u30	Your Honor! Amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office are being dealt with in short proceedings. It is intended to comply with other laws, including the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. It is also supposed to be less difficult to amend and supplement the law, which summarise the GRECA recommendation. We believe that it would be more important and more effective if the solutions followed the recommendations and assessments made by the European Commission. Slovenian justice needs reforms. We have already talked a lot about this, and a lot has been proposed, but there has been virtually nothing out of these measures. In the area of the prosecution, the proposed solutions merely wrap the existing situation into a new packaging paper, which will be written by GRECO instead of a fat label. The solutions should be those which will place the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office on European ethical standards and on European comparable professionalism and responsibility and, for citizens and citizens, on the actual respect for the laws and Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. We agree with the proposed principles in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but unfortunately there is nothing in the proposals to establish the responsibility of prosecutors, and there are no solutions to impartiality in the performance of the post. Also in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we cannot agree with the short-term adoption process in this law. The proposed amendments are not coordinated with the interested professional public, nor are they consistent with civil society. Let me remind you that civil society is being brought before the Supreme Court because of the state of justice and requires radical changes in the judicial system that will put our system on European standards. I'm afraid that's not what this law brings. The problem of the proposed solutions was also highlighted by the Legal and Legislative Service. In the SDS Group, for example, we proposed an amendment that would establish the responsibility of the Attorney-General if, for example, he missed the adoption of a policy on the perception and management of corruption risks and the exposure of state prosecutors. On the board, like all other SDS amendments, this was not supported by Cerara's coalition. It is worth noting here that the Attorney General has been missing for six months by adopting a law enforcement policy which represents a fundamental postulate of the work of the state prosecutors. It is also worth noting that it is late in its annual reports on the work of state prosecutors. However, no one assumes responsibility for not talking about any sanctions at all. What looks like to the public, I ask you when laws are being violated by those who should be respected first and foremost. We will oppose the proposal for a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, Secretary of State. Dear Members and Members! The novels of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, as some of the laws previously discussed, follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe's GRECO Anti-Corruption Group on the strengthening of ethics and integrity and the elimination of corruption risks in the State Prosecutor's Office. These recommendations were almost identical to those of the courts for the State Prosecutor's Office. The draft law also provides for the adoption of the Code of State Prosecutor's Ethics between the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council. In our regulation, the rules for the commercial and personal conduct and behaviour of prosecutors are already governed by the Code of Ethics for State Prosecutors, adopted by the Association of State Prosecutors of Slovenia in 2009. The weakness of the latter is, of course, that it applies only to members of the said society and not to all state prosecutors. That is why this amendment raises the general principles of professional conduct to the legal level. The Code of Public Prosecutors' Ethics will thus apply to all state prosecutors in the Republic of Slovenia who will be familiar with its contents at the time of the appearance of the State Prosecutor's Office. The amendment also requires the establishment of a Ethics and Integrity Commission, which will adopt principled opinions on compliance with the Code, to make recommendations for the fulfilment of the standards of state-level ethics and integrity and to adopt guidelines on conflicts of interest in the conduct of the State prosecutor's office or outside it. In the light of the implementation of the GRECO recommendations, a policy of perception and management of corruption risks and exposure of state prosecutors will also be prepared, which, of course, we support in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. However, the second part of the amendments introduced by the amendment in question relate to issues related to the specialised state prosecutor's office and to the strengthening of the law. I'd only mention some. Staff limits for the appointment of new state prosecutors to the Special Prosecutor's Office shall be removed with specific knowledge. The applicant considers that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office dealing with the most serious crimes should be given the opportunity to be joined by external candidates, these are experts with specific knowledge who meet the conditions for appointment as state prosecutor. We also support this intention of the proposer in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Furthermore, the limitation of the duration of the provisional award of the State Prosecutor to the Special Prosecutor’s Office has been lifted as it has in practice been shown that the time of award of the State Prosecutor to the Special Prosecutor’s Office for a period of up to 6 months is not appropriate. In accordance with the experience gained in practice, it is now possible for a public prosecutor to appear at the hearing or hearing together with the state prosecutor, who is the chief prosecutor, who has also made a criminal charge at the first stage, leading to a better representation in the appeal proceedings. An important novelty is also the establishment of a new civilian financial department for the procedures for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin. Thus, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the confiscation of property of illegal origin, the civil financial department will be able to cooperate with the local and indeed competent state prosecutors who conduct pre-trial or criminal proceedings relating to the suspicion of assets of illegal origin, or financial investigations under the law governing the seizure of property of illegal origin. In the Desus Group, we believe that this cooperation will contribute to an even more effective fight against organised crime. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we advocate the effective and ethical functioning of the state prosecutors, so we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. Allow me also to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats on the proposed law. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is, according to the applicant, the Government, due to the harmonisation with the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, the amendment of the Law on State Administration and the alignment with the legal order of the European Union relating to the establishment of a contact point for cooperation with offices for the confiscation of property benefits from other Member States of the European Union. Nor is it possible to overlook the introduction of GRECA’s recommendations into the marriage. The amendments and additions to the proposed law are also prepared on the basis of the proposals of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, as they want legislation to enable them to deal more quickly and qualitatively with those matters that are identified as a priority in the policy of prosecution adopted. However, it is not possible to overlook the warning given by a representative of the State Attorney's Office on the home working body that, despite the proposed amendment, issues remain open, for example, the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, the State Prosecutor's Office, the exercise of judicial supervision and the integration of the minutes with public records. Uncoordinated also remained in the work relating to representation in the Court of Appeal and the transmission of GRECO recommendations. With regard to GRECA's recommendation, a number of articles are added: new 38.a and 38.b., which regulate the Code of Public Prosecutor's Ethics, new 108.a., which will make it the Commission for Ethics and Integrity. With regard to the Code, it must be said that the Code of the Association of Public Prosecutors already exists, but only applies to its members. Social Democrats are convinced that state prosecutors are aware of their responsibilities and responsibilities in the field of prosecutorial ethics and integrity and that they are acting accordingly. However, if any of them deviate from these ethical principles, such ones must be excluded from their own species in accordance with the standards already in force. It is also necessary to highlight a new, third A chapter, which reads as follows: Section for Procedures for the Seizure of Unlawful Property under the new Article 203.a., in the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, a special Section for Procedures for the Seizure of Unlawful Property, Civil Finance Section, is hereby established. This novelty, according to the Social Democrats, is the response to warnings from the prosecutions about the human resources supply of state prosecutors, as well as the lack of expertise with specific knowledge, such as financial law and civil law, and fulfil the conditions for appointment as a state prosecutor. Reports and statistics show that the increase belongs to the most serious crimes. Prosecutors also face increasingly difficult cases in the field of economic crime and interlinked business. The number of them, the prosecutors, remains roughly the same. Social Democrats are of the view that the prosecutions must also be complemented by experts with specific knowledge who will be able to prepare, quickly and qualitatively, indictments and substantiate them with evidence and bring them to justice. The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u35	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The judicial authorities have been facing severe pressures for a long time, and they might even say they're being chased. With the pre-election promises of strengthening the rule of law and restoring the reputation of justice, we expected the Minister of Justice to start talking to all stakeholders on the first day of his term of office and to start working on the realisation of the promises made. Unfortunately, something completely different has happened. The minister went to the justice reform mini. And how did he do? Together with ministry officials, he locked himself in the premises and, without any cooperation from stakeholders overnight, sought some solutions, but with the actual problems facing justice, they did not have much in common. After two more days of warning, we hope the Minister has already determined that we are persistent and that we will not look through his fingers. We hope that the next time we see a proposal that will be coordinated, thoughtful and will provide systemic solutions to all the shortcomings observed by state prosecutors in the application of the legislation. Above all, we hope that the following proposal, which will be sent to the legislative procedure by the Ministry of Justice, will not give rise to any sentence from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service: such a proposal raises constitutional and systemic concerns. Or: The proposed arrangement raises more questions than it wants to settle. The debate that all the proposals in this mini reform are not in line with the professional public was already quite gruesome at the meeting of the home committee and the Minister's reactions and responses were rather arrogant. I cannot approve of this manner of action of the Minister. We know that, otherwise, the coalition voting apparatus will support all proposals because they are necessary, useful and more than necessary. We agree that the recommendations of Greece should be implemented. However, if after two years of recommendations, we should have reported on the implementation of those recommendations a year ago, it is so urgent that we cannot wait for 14 days – for the Minister would have lost so much time if he had given the law into regular procedure – we cannot believe that. The amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, as has already been said, implements the recommendations of Greece, in which, as I have said many times yesterday, Greece also warns us about the excessive use of the shortened procedure. This reduced procedure is problematic precisely because it prevents the professional public from participating. While in the United Left, we support the provisions relating to the policy of perception and management of corruption risks, the establishment of standards and the adoption of an ethical code, but we cannot agree with such solutions as are not part of Greece's recommendations but relate to the redeployment of state prosecutors and greater flexibility in the allocation of those. This is about changes that should be aligned with people from production, as called by the Minister. If we want to restore confidence in the rule of law, we will by no means be able to do so through hand-to-hand, reckless and uncoordinated solutions. We therefore propose to the Minister that he begin to speak with the judiciary, with all stakeholders and the professional public, and to pursue the judicial reforms already outlined in the Government's normative work programme. This should be done responsibly and in accordance with the views expressed both in the performance of the previous function and in the hearing of the home committee. Unfortunately, at this point, the minister does not yet seem to have a clear vision of how to do his job and how to restore the reputation of justice. We hope that he has found that the way he made his first changes is certainly not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In this amendment, I would touch upon the finding of human rights violations which we are re-exposing, and I believe that the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in Article 77 provides that the personal records of the state prosecutors are already collecting information on cases brought by the State Prosecutor and found by the European Court of Justice in proceedings before that court, that is, of course, for a final judgment that human rights have been violated and that this violation has occurred due to the conduct of this particular state prosecutor. Such information is already being transmitted by the State Prosecutor's Office to the Ministry under the current law, and if we take into account all that I have stated, I can conclude that the record of human rights violations committed by the State Prosecutor's Office in the State Prosecutor's Office Act is properly regulated and that there is therefore no need to adopt further provisions which would be introduced into the law, as proposed by this amendment to Article 7, and, of course, we will not support this amendment in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u39	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up again. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! I see now that the Minister of Justice has returned to the Chamber and I must say here that I heard yesterday that he was very concerned, along with Mr Bobovnik, at the Echoes, that we did not discuss enough in the Slovenian Democratic Party yesterday about his laws in the field of justice. Here I say, Mr Minister, that you should not be concerned when you bring to the National Assembly a package of laws that will represent systemic solutions in the field of justice, which will truly be a substantive reform of justice, then believe that we will discuss your substantive proposals for a long and broad debate in the National Assembly. However, given that this package of five laws is going on here, also in the field of the law on the prosecution only for cosmetic corrections, I think that colleague Anja Bah Žibert did her job very correctly yesterday and that her debate was quite enough for what the ministry is offering us at the moment. In addition to the fact that most members of the Slovenian Democratic Party covering this area have become ill and this is nature and we cannot resist it. We are therefore very closely monitoring the functioning of the judiciary. We have opened debates in this area on several occasions, and it is precisely because of us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that key issues have been raised, which represent some kind of inefficiency and anomaly in the field of justice, of course within this system in the field of the prosecution as well. All these debates have undoubtedly contributed to the fact that they are aware, thank God, that we have real problems and that something is wrong with this system in which they operate. However, what worries me the most, and then I will also explain why the amendment to the 7th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that within this legislation, within this package of five, I will say what cosmetic corrections do not solve, that is that judges and prosecutors are practically not responsible for their mistakes made in the proceedings. Even in the face of violations of human rights, it has been repeatedly said how many times human rights violations have been caused by various courts, there is no sanction. More than that; those who have proved to be violating human rights are progressing very quickly on the judicial hierarchy in terms of staffing. Here I cannot pass the general prosecutor of the State, Mr Zvonk Fischer, who has gravely violated human rights in the previous system, but today it is the one who in some way assesses or carries out the function of monitoring or assessing whether an offence has been committed or not, even in the light of the protection and respect of human rights. See, in the European Union – we would very much like to refer to the members of the European Union – but personally, not only to the European Union, but elsewhere else, I do not know a case where, in prosecutions in such a high position as the Attorney General, someone who has gravely violated human rights in the previous system is sitting. I don't know this case. If you know him, Mr. Secretary, then I'd ask you to name him. I don't know him. I would expect more pro-activity here on your part, because that's what will also regulate the prosecutions within. If we first arrange for such positions not to be met by individuals who should not be in such situations because of their past behaviour. But I understand that, as Minister, it is difficult to judge this today, because you have repeatedly violated laws and regulations in the past, as the Court of Auditors has said, and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has recently. So here are two issues that are crucial; on the one hand, the integrity of the Minister, on the other hand, of the integrity of the Attorney General. I understand, then it is difficult to ask for the integrity and transparency of action from such a position about someone else. But to return to the State Attorney's Office Act, which is before us today. Among other things, as we have heard many times before, the law also implements Greece's recommendations on corruption risks. But here I have to say, dear colleagues and colleagues, that this is no help at all. Why do we even make recommendations to Greece in this legislation? I understand that these recommendations are important to Greece. But with us at this level, which we call actions, nothing happens, so these recommendations will not help. For example, in the Prosecutor's Office, Mr Boštjan Škrlec was illegally appointed, but nothing happened, although the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Administrative Court made it clear that this appointment was illegal and that there was a suspicion of corruption and a conflict of interest. So, if we now write corruption risks into this law, as Greece’s recommendations say, will we also eliminate this illegal appointment? If we are, then I think we should put such recommendations into law. If not, then we are doing so simply to make the public feel that something has been done in this area. This should be demonstrated by actions, not by entering into the law, then by pressing the button, because you have a majority in the National Assembly, but nothing really happens. The other thing that seems important to me is that in addition to Greece's recommendations, you want to write down the law or appoint a committee for ethics and integrity. Okay. There is nothing wrong with this, but it is only right that when you request or write down this ethics and integrity committee into legislation, in order to establish sanctions for infringements and not only the Code of State Prosecutorial Ethics. So, we're here now when we're doing something again, so it's nice to hear it sound just fine, but sanctions, if there's a violation in this area, are not. Here, I ask you, Madam Minister, this is also our amendment, and I hope that you will support it, including the establishment of sanctions for violations and not just the State Prosecutor's Code of Ethics. So here I ask you, Minister, will you invite the coalition Members to accept this amendment, within this law, our amendment, which also introduces it? It seems to me irrelevant that we then discuss some things if we do not do things thoroughly to the end. If someone violates an ethical code, he must also know what the sanctions are for such a violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u41	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u42	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Member, I missed you yesterday. You do not propose with this amendment a sanction for violation of the ethical code, you propose a sanction for the Attorney-General in the event that we speak, I apologize – an amendment to Article 24. [[…]] [[…]] I'll check in, I'll just have to take a look, I'm too late. So you got me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up again. First of all, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I would like to add something else in my debate or contribute to violations of the Code of State Prosecutors Ethics. In the event that a violation of the Code of State Prosecutor Ethics is found, the State Prosecutor's Office, which will deal with the infringement on the Ethics and Integrity Commission of the State Prosecutor's Council, will, of course, scrutinise this infringement thoroughly, and I believe that it will also take into account the defence and then adopt a principled opinion on the conduct of the Attorney General's Office, which constitutes a violation of the Code of State Prosecutor's Ethics, and will finally issue a recommendation to respect the rules of state prosecution ethics. This recommendation will be published within the State Attorney's Office in the newsletter and, of course, also on the websites of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, This will enable citizens to get acquainted with the report of this Commission. That is why I believe that this area is also properly regulated by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u45	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u46	President, thank you so much for your word. Well, we've talked a lot these days about the problem of the so-called reduced procedure. Look, Minister, a few months ago, we discussed a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Let me remind you that already there have been many things that have proved to be or show that we have a major problem in this area. At that time, the Slovenian Democratic Party requested or proposed that a debate be held in the National Assembly on that report. Why? To talk about a subject that could bring a number of additional solutions today. But this was rejected by the coalition, and on the other hand, you're asking us to discuss even more. We wanted to discuss this too, and this was impossible for us. We also proposed that the work of the State Prosecutor's Office be supervised, which would somehow also be a message to the public, but we do not think that the infringements could be in places where they should never have happened. You refused to do that, too. I don't know if it's that crows don't turn their eyes off, because someone knows they're breaking their own rules, and then it's hard to speak in the National Assembly when someone else breaks their laws. Let me focus on the amendment, which my colleague from Desus also talked about. Look, we want to somehow monitor, analyse and determine why human rights and fundamental freedoms are being violated. So this means that we also want to eliminate that whole glyphic notion that they are all the same. They're not all the same. The fact is, there may also be infringements due to professional error, because of ignorance, but there may be violations on purpose. You know, when there's a violation on purpose, it's a crime. It is precisely the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party that somehow wish to emphasise that we have in this branch as honest as those that should no longer work in this area. There is also a speech on the Code of State Juridical Ethics, which does not contain any sanctions for infringements, which I think is very precise and presented by my colleague Eva Irgle. Here, too, we want to cut into the fact that this is not about, I don't know, some code that we talk a lot about ethics and morality, but of course it's about a harmless tiger, some principles, some guidance, let's be ethical, let's work ethically. And I'm asking you, after the adoption of this code, we're not even going to be on the street anymore, so, in public, we're looking at how the D.A.'s friends are in the process. Maybe this code is working? Is it because this code will be adopted that the Prosecutor-General will come to the meeting and will not apologize for the convening of the meeting on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? Respectable, only political action. This is the political action of the responsible person who should have come there after the professional salary, but he was not. That was his apology. Does this really mean that prosecutors who want to do good can also work easier? Look, we have cases, the prosecutors are talking about them themselves, when they actually did everything they could to prosecute, and the police said they wouldn't cooperate because it was one of the known people. But it was a serious crime violation in the area. I think it was drugs. On the other hand, we also have cases where the prosecutor wanted to act, and the police informed her supervisor daily that they would not do so, even though they had no authority to do so. Are these changes in the law likely to result in greater and more transparent and quality cooperation between authorities? No, no, no. But look at this from someone who was a judge and is now in the role of prosecutor. Of course, then it's all that: let's go boaring, everything's bad. But that's the kind of thing we do a lot of wrong. Finally, I ask you whether, following the Greek recommendation, the code means that almost 50% of the cases to be dealt with will not be rejected. This is the 2013 report, 50%. It's huge. You know, until we make a real change – look, really, this package of five laws. Only if we add one law to make the citizens feel that one of those who participates in these organs — whether the judge or the prosecutor — will actually be responsible for their actions, in accordance with the Constitution, would they do much more than by going into some beautiful corrections, and in this way, in my opinion, they will make an even greater mess and even more insane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u47	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member! For a little while. You've asked me a number of questions about whether or not this is going to be, a prosecutor with a suspect and so on. The audience may not know what you were talking about. We know what you were talking about. I'm not going to touch specific cases, not at all, because it's not as simple as you said. I'm also not a lawyer or a lawyer for the Attorney General, not by post or by anything else. Like yesterday you highlighted a series of problems, some are also real problems and you said and talked about what this law does not regulate. I have repeatedly said, of course, this law does not solve any of the legitimate problems that you have raised. Nor does this law save, I don't know, poverty in the Republic of Slovenia, but not much else because it is not meant to do so at the moment. We are talking about what this law is saving and about those solutions, whether they are really as bad as we said on the committee. That strengthening the Special Prosecutor's Office, with a strong emphasis on seizing the illegal property benefit of planting flowers or cellophane or causing even more confusion than you said, is something I cannot agree with. But that could be your opinion. As I said yesterday, it was a marriage that was given into procedure at the end of November. As you know, the Ministry of Justice's normative programme towards the end of the year envisages a broader amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which will be able to answer some of these questions, and I would not like to throw them all in a common basket, in a common pile, because some of them were, as it were, legitimate. Question of dismissed complaints, etc. they can – I mean, they are not easy, they are a real problem, and many other things are, of course, actually politicized. Things usually have a double medal. Yesterday, when there was a meeting before the Supreme Court, he was also attended by a suspended state prosecutor who still has the status of a state prosecutor, which is also very likely to be inappropriate. But these are things that will have to do in terms of the criteria of conduct and responsibility within the prosecution, within the courts, within the final stage of the state defence, where we will all have to do more together. And the ethical code, or code of conduct, as Greece calls it, I believe it will contribute. Whether things will improve in six months — no, they will not. I believe they won't. However, instruments and mechanisms will be put in place to follow the right path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u49	There's obviously still a debate, so I'm asking you to apply. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that again. Look, Mr. Minister, you will establish a code of state-of-the-art ethics by law, but you will not impose sanctions for these violations. And that's what we demand with the amendment. Otherwise, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the matter that you are introducing within the law is completely pointless, even if it is in some way meant well-intentioned. That is why I asked you earlier whether you would call on coalition members, i.e. those who have a majority in the National Assembly, to support our amendment to Article 7, which states that in addition to the Code of State Prosecutor's Ethics, sanctions for violations should also be imposed when there is a violation of this ethical code. And by the way, Mr. Minister, regarding Greece's recommendations on corruption risks. If you read the Greek report correctly, you will be able to see that there is no requirement within the recommendations that these recommendations be entered into the law. That's not what you're asking. However, this can be regulated in certain rules, it is said that a clear set of certain standards is recorded. Why did you decide to write this down in law? That's what I'm interested in. In view of the fact that my colleague Möderndorfer and I had not had any time to discuss ourselves, we agreed that sometimes it looked more like you were still the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, not the Minister of Justice. I would like answers to these specific questions: Will you invite colleagues from your coalition to support our amendment? We seem to have absolutely no sense, otherwise we don't even know why a code of state-of-the-art ethics is being established. And why did you even decide to put it all into law if you could solve it in any other way? Since that's what Greco recommends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u51	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. First, about the shape. For the first time, it is not the code itself that enters into the law. The law gives the legal basis for the code. The Greek recommendations speak of the need to adopt a legal provision that will provide the basis for this. Because the recommendations made by Greece in this respect did not go into effect In one case this can be regulated by a regulation, where this can be regulated by law, as far as the basis is concerned. [[…]] The situation in countries is different. Most countries that have implemented similar recommendations by Greece have implemented them through law. The answer to your question and partly to the question, or to Commissioner Möderndofer's remark, is, see, in the Netherlands, each court has its own committee for ethics and integrity. And they work very well. They set standards, strengthen internal cohesion, housing hygiene within each department. Similarly, such grounds are found in other laws: Denmark, Croatia, Macedonia, Slovakia, Poland. That's the first thing you said when you said why we put it in the marriage. We wrote this in the law for one more reason. Because the Council of State could, in principle, adopt such a code directly on the basis of Greece's recommendations. The question is whether he would be bound. The fact is, within two years of the adoption of Greece's recommendations, the prosecution has done nothing to implement them. The Council of Justice did something. The Council of Justice has decided that the Code of Judicial Ethics adopted by the Society shall apply to all judges. This was re-examined by Greece and issued an interim report last December, which we also discussed yesterday. And he said that it's not enough for a simple reason, because it's not just a paper thing, it's a code that someone has in a drawer, but it's a tool that this code can live in. That's what you need a decision-making body that adopts an opinion that strengthens itself in the same way as you have a medical ethics committee, like you have a legal ethics committee, and so on, that has all the legal grounds. Not because of what it says in there, but because the instrumentation is set up, because it's the only way to live. That's, I think, the first part of the question. Another part of the question, specifically about how sanctions are handled. The sanctions themselves are prescribed through disciplinary procedures, violations of the law, labour procedures and criminal, for example, legislation. Why are you doing this? Because [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] I apologize, but I must not respond to this because usually any disputed conduct has either a state prosecutor or a judge of more scope. [[…]] Sometimes it's a disciplinary violation, sometimes it's an ethical violation, sometimes it's a crime. If you establish a central mechanism, which in this case is in the State Prosecutor's Council, in the case of judges in the Council of Justice, which is a good solution, Greece also explicitly supported for two reasons. Firstly, because it is still a body that has the majority of residents, but it also has some external influence, because both in the State Prosecutor's Council and in the Council of Justice, it is not just judges in one and state prosecutors in another. And if you have this central mechanism, they start to establish common standards in one place; young people entering this system have an authority to which they can turn for explanations, assistance and so on. This will not prevent and is not intended to prevent the criminal abuse that may have been committed by prosecutors in order to prevent corruption in the case I do not know, we had a prosecutor trapped with his hand in a bag, told at home and also convicted. [[…]] We also had a judge in this area. Thus, if the Commission detects that a particular infringement falls under the disciplinary procedure, it will depart from the disciplinary procedure. However, it can happen, and unfortunately, in the prosecution's case, it often happens that disciplinary procedures go too quickly, because disciplinary infringements are clearly limited and so on, but will still be able to issue an opinion on ethical misconduct. It is simply a matter of setting standards, such as proper conduct within the judicial or judicial institutions. In this part, I have no difficulty in telling me that I am still acting as if I am still on KPK, because these are the standards adopted by most other prosecution associations across Europe, civil society organisations, judicial organisations, as well, and we are fighting this, as if it were a miscommunication to cast a bad light on all the prosecutors, all the judges. I don't know why their colleagues in the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Croatia, don't have this low-value complex where they don't have any problems. I'll say it again. The fact that prosecutors have had their own code for 50 years, because of me, or their code or that the judiciary has its code, does not say anything because it is paper — I think I have 35 minutes left — does not mean anything because there is no one who will ever issue an opinion on the basis of this code. It's different for the judges, but that's true with the prosecutors. There's one. Today, this requirement is introduced. Not because the Minister of Justice is the former head of the KPK, but because this was proposed by a serious international institution by experts in which foreign prosecutors, foreign judges, and after one week – by the way – she also survived in Slovenia, she met with people from production and management, prosecutors, district attorneys, prosecutors from the specialized department, the State Prosecutor's Council and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u53	Replica, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you said a serious international institution. I agree with you and it needs to be taken into account, but then it needs to be taken fully into account, not only in those parts where someone thinks it's good, but in some parts it doesn't, because someone thinks it might be less good. Now I'll read you the following. One of Greece's recommendations. Greece recommends that the State Prosecutor's Council, in cooperation with relevant institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Commission, develop guidelines on conflicts of interest for prosecutors in relation to the conduct expected of them outside the Office, and that these guidelines be accompanied by clear implementing rules and sanctions which must be made public. So, in this part, you've taken into account, in this recommendation, only the first part of the recommendation, and the second part of the recommendation, you're getting a little excited. I therefore ask once again whether you will already introduce all these rules and all these guidelines, which is, of course, correct and I agree with you and also need to take into account such good recommendations, in particular for our judicial system, which has quite anomalies and must be resolved. However, I would like to ask why then, given that this is a serious international institution, as you say, you do not take into account another of their recommendations and it is also to impose clear sanctions on those who violate certain rules within either judicial or prosecutorial functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u55	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u56	Because it's expected. The Code does not have to prescribe sanctions. The sanctions are prescribed in the 80s and, I think, article 81 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, and it is expected that when the code is prepared and adopted, this link will be made. If they won't, then we'll have to take it one step further. That's it. If they're not implemented, you say? And at this point, we're gonna have coffee, and we're gonna make a deal. [[…]] At this point, we are establishing a mechanism that will have to take care of the implementation of the Code, which will have a direct link with disciplinary and other procedures, and these are very extensive. Oh, I didn't even know there were so many points. That's it. There was an even more acute article, and I will be honest with you, and there was even more opposition to those you said we didn't have a lot of conversation with. It must be said that despite the same recommendations made by Greece for the judiciary and the prosecution, despite the working groups that have been preparing this for one and a half years, it has ultimately remained inappropriate in relation to the prosecution as regards the judiciary. Which is not right, we brought it back, so we were also worried that we were not in line with the professional public, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u57	Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to refer first to what has already been said in relation to Article 7 and then to Article 8. I believe that today we are laying the actual legal basis or basis for this code and that the content will be on the State Prosecutor's Council. We need a basis so that we can set up and enable the Commission to work. To return to this respect for human rights. May I remind you of Article 77 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which provides in paragraph 4, that personal records of state prosecutors shall also deal with, inter alia, information on cases that have been resolved or resolved by the State Prosecutor, in which the European Court of Human Rights definitively decided that a violation of the party's freedom rule had occurred because of the action of the State prosecutor or that such violation had resulted in a settlement in a proceeding before that court. This article actually refers to this and shows that this area is properly regulated. Let me also recall Article 126, which also explicitly stipulates that the Head of Public Prosecutions will be relieved of his functions if he fails to carry out his duties in accordance with the rules. I think that these two articles, with all their points of view, are a sufficient legal basis and constitute sufficient regulation of this area and I do not think that this should be further regulated. It's about the code and the sanctions -- what I'm listening to -- like this. I believe that the reference to the Code to disciplinary procedure and the publication of a purely sufficient sanction is a reference, and I do not think that further sanctions are necessary in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u59	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Earlier, the minister said well that these changes did not bring everything and that they would not save the country from the crisis. I agree with you, but this is a problem because the European Commission emphasises that the justice system is an essential element that can also contribute to the fight against the crisis. These measures that we are taking today certainly do not contribute to anything, but they obviously help to make those who are working with us in Greece more pleased. When we talk about the Code of State Jury Ethics, it's no problem! Let it be accepted! Just don't throw sand in the public's eyes so it can fix what's really a problem for them. You've said before that they're somehow determined by the law of sanctions. Then tell me how we have a general prosecutor who's breaking the law. Did he receive any sanctions? How could he even have landed in this place if he was violating human rights? Tell me how we can have a prosecutor walking the streets with a client in a procedure without sanctions. Don't talk nonsense! The code will save everything, but everything else doesn't matter. Mr. Secretary, I didn't want to mention that you should have identified yourself until any case. I wanted to say that prosecutors warn that they cannot do their job and that it would be appropriate to consider how to amend the legislation as soon as possible, so that there would be no problems. They themselves warn that independence is a problem and that political action in the system is also a problem. Isn't that enough to make a real difference? And we're here talking about this code, like it's gonna save everything. And, Minister, you know, it's true, then you took what I said more personally, exposed the person and talked about suspension, who could have been suspended. We know what we're talking about, and the contents are very different, aren't they? But let me tell you something, because you've been putting a lot of emphasis on the Netherlands – you wouldn't be sitting here today in the Netherlands. Therefore, comparison with this country is of no value to you; a comparison will have to be found with another exotic country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u61	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u62	In part, I agree with you that there is still a lot or some room for better work, as well as better legislation, including in the State Prosecutor's Office. Not in this direction at all, as only you suggested. And I'm sorry, even though that sounds like it, but I'm sorry that we have to deal with this today, because in your government's time, the only way you've dealt with the State's Attorney's Office was by transferring it as the only country in Europe from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of the Interior. And you know why, among other things, two and a half years later, we're applying Greek recommendations? Greece's reports came in early 2013. At the Ministry of Justice, there are now five or six e-mails and calls, requests from the government to make it public, however. It didn't work out. Why wasn't it made during the last Janša government? Because in these recommendations, Greece is also a clear critic of the fact that it is wrong for the prosecution to transfer to the MNZ. In one year you have not prepared one amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act or sent it through Parliament; one amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act and sent it to Parliament. Then you're hurting me here because in three months, I've taken my first steps! This, however, is also conjecture, honourable Member. An amendment to the Police Act has been prepared in your mandate, which has restricted the independence of the NPU. I haven't seen one change in this area where we obviously share a desire to make it better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u63	I'm asking for an application because there's obviously still a desire to discuss it. A replica? Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, Minister, I see now that you had no argument on what I said, you went to other waters. And let me answer you in these waters. First of all, Janša's government was in power for a year. You know exactly what the composition of the coalition was and who was covering the Justice Department. Of course, we wanted radical changes here, radical changes, so we also made some transfers. We're sorry we're running out of time for something more because of you, Mr Klemenčič. You're the reason this government fell down, and you know it. And one more thing. You know, for six months you've been reading to us a one-year government, an expert who has such a majority that we can practically pass laws on a reduced procedure just because you wanted to, and your coalition wasn't harmonised. Go look at the committee magnetograms again, they didn't even know where the coordination took place, who was invited to any coordination. You who now have scissors and canvas after almost half a year, a little more, bring into the National Assembly beauty repairs and read to others what they have not changed. It won't work. It won't work. But the facts remain. We wouldn't be talking in the Netherlands today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u65	First, to find out, this was a debate, this was not a replica, because the replica requires you to essentially correct what you were misinterpreted. I'm gonna ask you to sign up again. But we have a debate at about the same level, so please now, does anyone else want to discuss Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group? Is there any other discussion about this? No, no, no. Okay. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendments of the SDS Group Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Because no one wants A anymore, they want to, and then I'm asking you to apply. [[…]] Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Here, too, we wish to change the way in which the principled opinions are adopted on conduct that violates the Code of Public Prosecutions, and to propose sanctions for infringements. But we've talked about this a lot today, there'll be no sanctions, there'll be a toothless tiger, and then we'll hear about it today, but if that doesn't apply, we'll move on. But when we made a concrete proposal, it was said by a coalition member, because it is all in and everything is in order. Yeah, well, then the ethical code is, because we're going to say that prosecutors aren't ethical at all. There is something else about the deception of Mr Klemenčič, given that he came from the professional platoons, he certainly realizes that he has been deceiving himself. In fact, the CAP was invested in the government and the ZRT was accepted, so there will be no problems or misleading the public at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u67	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that again. We also propose in the amendment to Article 8 that principled opinions be adopted on the conduct which constitutes a violation of the Code of State Prosecutors Ethics and that sanctions be proposed for such infringements. In view of the debate that the distinguished Minister has left us now, I can say that obviously these sanctions will not be, so they have decided, so the Minister has decided, given that I have already explained most of the things about this, I do not intend to do so anymore, but I would like to draw on the debate that Mr Janša recently had when he said that in the government of Janez Janša, in 2011, 2012, there was virtually nothing done in the field of justice. I would, of course, partly agree with Mr Minister here, but it is necessary to know why there have been no realisations within this justice. Because of the fact that this ministry was led by the Party of the Civil Service List, in particular Minister of Justice Senko Pličanič, and since I was the President of the Committee on Justice during that period; I closely monitored what was going on in this area, I also had many discussions and meetings with the Minister, and I know who was the one who deliberately hindered, if I say so, all this legislation, that it did not go into proceedings. That was Dr. Gregor Virant. He was the one who was blocking all the legislation that did not come to the National Assembly in the field of justice. And this, respected colleagues, was also related to the matters that President Janez Janša had in court. And also with the matter that has taken place on the Commission to prevent corruption. That was all arranged between you and me. But people don't know these backgrounds, and that's why it's right to say it out loud sometimes. Then came the government of Alenka Bratusek. And what happened? Practically nothing, nothing in the field of justice, but there remains the same minister who signed with Mr Masleša and with the President of the Government a commitment on what they will do in the area of justice. Nothing was done! This is why we today in the Slovenian Democratic Party demand that, while it is already going into more cosmetic corrections to the package of justice, that, however, if some things are already being established, they may even be good enough to be carried out to the end. That people who violate human rights are responsible for this, that they are sanctioned, that if an ethical code is established, sanctions are also established. These are also recommendations made by Greece. That's all we want! That's all we want! Why should we make changes simply so that we do not have any of these changes? That doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make sense to sit here for hours and hours and talk about it if we don't have that final point on the i. And in this case, it is the establishment of the responsibility of judges and the establishment of the responsibility of prosecutors. We have several articles in the legislation, which also sanction some errors in the proceedings brought by judges and prosecutors, that is true, but very rarely implemented, and that is the problem. We have a lot of legislation in different areas, but it is not implemented. Then let us make a new marriage, because we say that if he was not good or disregarded, this one will certainly be taken into account. He's not gonna pay attention. Just like the ethical code won't apply. And I'm the first to accept such things! But it won't be taken into account. This will not be taken into account because, already within the legislation, these things are not being taken into account. Therefore, once again, Mr President, I propose that the coalition at least the amendment to Article 8 which, I will say, is the natural consequence of this first part proposed by the Minister, we propose only the second part to execute sanctions if someone has done something wrong to accept it. That's what I'm asking. Because this is not a bad thing, because in the near future this will also bring greater responsibility in the area of justice and greater transparency. This is what we all want together so that justice works better and more successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u69	Because I see there's going to be a debate, I'm asking you to apply. Mr. Alexander Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u70	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Members and Members! All those who accompany today’s session are also warmly greeted. Today we are talking about the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutions, a reduced procedure. Let us point out in particular the facts why the reduced procedure. In particular, because it eliminates certain editorial shortcomings and implements the recommendations of the Council of Europe institutions in the area of corruption risks and the ethical code, which has been under discussion for almost an hour now. The key point highlighted by the Minister of Public speaking before is the institutionality of the work of the Special Prosecutor's Office in the area of the confiscation of property of illegal origin. This is the essential point that we are going to talk about today, and I believe that word will run. Let me return to the debate on the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. In fact, it speaks only of this ethical code and sanctions based on it. Let me just say that the essence of ethics is not in sanctioning. The essence of ethics, in my opinion, is life and the essence of ethics is behavior. I'm sure Mira Cerar's party won't support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u71	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Now I really have to react because I feel that in the National Assembly, there are always some printing cartoons that change texts that are supposed to be uniform for everyone. Yesterday I started to monitor this event and to this day I have managed to obtain one of the copies – you will probably say it is not true – in the way we like to show it is the cover, so we know what document I am talking about. I must say, when I read the recommendation, all my forerunners have problems. The Member of Parliament, who has previously taken up arms, has also read one part, not the whole. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] The whole recommendation, yes. [[…]] Indeed, the sanctions you are talking about do not recommend Greece in relation to the ethical code and its violations. The sanctions can only be found in one place, namely on the spot, paragraph 199 of the report, where it recommended that "the State Prosecutor's Council, in cooperation with the relevant institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Commission, develop guidelines on conflicts of interest for prosecutors in relation to the conduct expected of them outside the prosecution's office". This is not a code of ethics for the conduct of state prosecutors, but guidelines for the conduct of prosecutors outside – as you said before – whether it is appropriate for the state prosecutor to sit with the party in the proceedings at the bar, friends and similar things, if I understand correctly. If not, please correct me, but I think that's the way it was. From here on, the guidelines follow clear rules on compliance and sanctions. These rules, not respect for the Code of Ethics of Public Prosecutors [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] and counseling – sorry, sorry, I got a little lost – "which must be published in public". So, far from what I have heard so far from the Minister and, of course, from the debaters. So, for actions against prosecutors outside the DA's office, not in the performance of the prosecutor's office. So this is what I'm talking about. The integrity of the prosecutor in his other life. To look ahead, I do not actually find a recommendation during the recommendations that a code of ethics should be adopted. All the time I've been in the National Assembly, as you know, I've also advocated finally understanding what the Code of Ethics really is, that this is about the collection of established rules of conduct, not some rules that we agree on and say from now on, but ethics will be like that. Of course, I do not wish to see the rules of conduct that have been applied so far become, even in the form of an adopted code of rules on our conduct and our ethics in the National Assembly. That is why, not least, we have established a party, we have run for office, we have come here to change the way we behave, and that ethical rules and practices are completely different. Of course we offer this space, If we haven't learned yet, we will work hard, always thank you for all the criticism that can only improve us and guide us in the right direction. What the Minister had previously said was the issue of the first recommendation concerning prosecutors, so that the Slovenian authorities ensure that "The Ministry of the Interior exercises its powers of prosecution by not compromising the integrity of prosecutors and not causing any risk of inappropriate influence..." — that is, the restraint of the competent authorities towards prosecutors to be able to exercise an independent and independent role in the judiciary, not to say, to the wider social state system – "... that the Attorney General continues to develop general guidelines on the policy of prosecution, in particular on the application of discretion, the procedure relating to the plea agreement and the dismissal of cases, and to ensure their public publication and to monitor their implementation...". Recommendation three: "... for all prosecutors to prepare a set of public standards through a code of professional conduct......" - Not ethics. So clear standards, a set of clear standards, a code of professional conduct with explanations and through or practical cases that the prosecutor knows how to operate. To set up cases, and if we have a commission, of course the Commission is addressing issues, not in terms of supervision, discipline and sanctioning, as required. I understand that sanctioning is essential to you. It is essential for me to finally give some guidance on how to make it acceptable. Whether this is accepted socially, whether it is accepted in the National Assembly, whether it is accepted by the special commissions, or whether it is accepted by the State Prosecutor's Council; nevertheless, it does not matter. Medical ethics were mentioned. It is certainly not the issue of sanctioning, but it solves the most difficult ethical questions of how doctors should act. Not long ago we were at a joint session when we were talking, of course we were going to talk about euthanasia, but we were talking about palliative care. These are two completely different things. And here we cannot lay down a code of ethics for this, but this ethical question, of course, needs to be reconsidered, spoken of in a clear, open dialogue and adopted certain positions that are most likely not simple, so we cannot, nor can we, honestly, leave it to each individual, and if he makes a mistake, we will process, discipline and sanction him, while he was previously in a dilemma, he had no clear recommendation, no guidance on how to act, because no one has ever accepted it before. Sample examples are examples and I will certainly never stand in the position to impose a pre-criminal sanction and put everything under fear if they accidentally make a mistake, because this means, of course, another discipline, which is contrary to the above recommendations that we have had, that the competent authority should care precisely that "the integrity of the prosecutors does not deteriorate and does not lead to the risk of undue influence". I also find it inappropriate to put an individual, an official, under pressure. Let's move on." ... that the State Prosecutor's Council – what I have already read – once again "in cooperation with the relevant institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Commission, develop guidelines on conflicts of interest for prosecutors in relation to conduct" – I am underlining – "which is expected of them outside the prosecutor's office." Under two, "these guidelines follow clear rules on compliance and sanctions which must be made public". However, sanctioning outside the prosecutor's office would be contrary again to the first recommendation on how to act and how to strengthen the role of the independent state prosecutor's office. I'm on my way. "...to introduce clear rules to avoid conflicts of interest through guidelines on cases where prosecutors go to the private sector" – not a code of ethics to determine. If I go on." ... to prepare and publicly publish policies to detect and manage corruption risks and exposure to prosecutions and to "co-operate with other relevant institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Commission", to the Attorney-General and the State Prosecutor's Council in monitoring and implementing this policy. So, cooperation with those authorities, in this case an independent institution, which is first placed and of course because we have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which applies to all officials. Here, of course, we will be out of this debate so that I do not receive a reminder, I also say to the Minister, because it is a very important question that this law is valid and must apply to all officials, but not that all officials in their laws can, through the procedure of the National Assembly, lay down their rules and say, but this law does not apply to us, because it would be contrary to the intentions and, clearly, contrary to the report and recommendations of Greece. "...to provide all prosecutors with adequate education and training and advice on ethics and integrity, not discipline and sanctioning". Please, without being torn out of context, let us read things completely, given that we have a collection, and although it is at two ends when you take into your hands the collection of all the recommendations, then you get the right whole. The idea is not what you propose and demand, and what we have in the amendment, that rules for disciplinary and sanctioning should be laid down, processing anyone who makes a mistake in contravention of the ethical code, which is sufficiently general enough that, of course, everyone, when appropriate, will fall within this category. I have studied and lived well in the totalitarian regime, and I know what moral-political fitness and processes are on this basis. There's no way I can accept your logic. Above all, I am surprised at your logic, given that you are constantly criticising or the period or remnants and continuing some practice from totalitarian regimes, that you are proposing with your amendment, that the law will record something such that, thank God, we have long exceeded our space – at least for this I have walked the streets and cried and voted for the independent Republic of Slovenia. Finally, 'to adopt a public information strategy and ensure adequate education and training'. Again and finally, not discipline and sanction, when and to the extent appropriate. Let's give people clear instructions, let's work together, let's talk, let's adopt common positions, guidelines for action, not adopt provisions that are very general, and then, on their basis, let's discipline and sanction individuals who are, of course, in one way or another – at least by manipulating, we can quickly achieve this – we have violated one of the possible meanings that we can bring together by interpreting such general rules, just as you have been doing all week from my commissions to what is happening in the National Assembly, including Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm sorry for a little longer, but I can't take it anymore, I had to say. Of course, it applies to all laws, even though I will now receive a reminder that regulates and introduces ethics in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u73	The debate was weighty enough not to deserve a reminder. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member Mitja Horvat, thank you for going very thoroughly through the so-called recommendations. I don't know, maybe you didn't understand our debate, but in no part did we speak out against the adoption of the code. But what we're talking about is that it doesn't change anything. I am surprised that you, who are an expert in this field, appreciate that it is much more important for you to have an ethical code than what you said earlier, that you have cried out in the streets, but that you do nothing to have at the top of the State Attorney's Office a man who has violated human rights. And that's what prosecutors do. Yeah, we have to write this down because nothing changes. Because there's no sanctions! That's the problem. It's true. I actually agree with you. You bring some new ethical criteria to the National Assembly. You took the mandate of one Member according to your ethical criteria, made it impossible for him to do his job for a certain period of time. On the other hand, you have a minister who violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, 7 laws. And if someone in the National Assembly is going to tell me today that the substantive part of the decision has not been removed and that it will come from the legal order, then we need to be even more afraid. Because I'm surprised you have a President of the Government who says the matter is not substantively removed. Of course it is, it's gone! There's no contents! That's a fact! But the minister stays. I believe you weren't on the streets at the time to bring in such ethical standards today. Personally, I don't think that's the kind of thing that you're personally supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u75	Dr. Mitja Horvat's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. You misinterpreted me and interpreted me. I was not in favour of this; I specifically pointed out that I am against the adoption of ethical codes, that I am against the fact that the laws make it mandatory to adopt an ethical code because I think it has a completely different nature and not the nature of the mandatory standards, and I do not believe that the ethical code can be adopted only if we put it into law. Of course, you also misinterpreted me, because of course there is no way and I didn't mean to say that we are introducing new ethical criteria in this way and thus in this way that we should introduce this through a code of ethics. I didn't say that. Of course, we are instituting, but in this part I agree and thank you very much for the correct summary, but we are striving for a new way of acting, ethical conduct in our society, in the National Assembly and, of course, in all other bodies. As it is said, I always welcome and gratefully accept all the criticism because it can only direct us to remedy the system's irregularity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u77	I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be brief, but there's something to say, Mr. Horvath. I very much appreciate and respect your debate; even more, I believe that you have given a very reasoned explanation of some of the issues related to the recommendations of Greece and to the package of five laws in the field of justice. However, when you talk about ethical standards, you need to do so, not just talk. That is to say, if you believe that some higher ethical standards should also be introduced into the National Assembly, not least, which you have also advocated when you run for the Party of Mir Cerar, then you must also clearly define how your Minister of Justice acted. Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič violated several laws, several regulations, said the Court of Auditors, and eventually violated the Constitution, as the Supreme Court said. You still support Minister Klemenčič and say that he has full integrity and that he is ethically intact. I would also expect them to express their views on the Attorney-General for human rights violations in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u79	A replica? Replica, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u80	You misinterpreted me this time, too. Of course, you ask me to do so myself, although you have special graces with the President of the National Assembly, who has not given you a reminder because you did not stick to the point, that is, the consideration of the amendment to Article 8. But it is likely that our debate or our debate has become so lively that it has also become a mystery. However, there is no way that this point is now about whether I support or do not support the Minister, and I will not answer such questions concerning ethics. I was talking about that your request for sanctions to be imposed in article 8 of the law with your amendment is inappropriate. And I didn't want to open up all the questions about ethics, morality and possible mistakes of anyone, perhaps even the proposer in this case. So I don't think that's an object, and you've got me all wrong about anything I've been saying about it. I was only talking about ethics and sanctions in relation to ethics in the State Prosecutor's Office Act; that is, what is the topic and item of the agenda. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u81	Yes, I accept implicit criticism. I should probably give myself a reminder because I didn't give a reminder. But now I'm asking, is there any other intention after the debate? I see that you have exhausted the time for debate and that those who still have it do not want to discuss it. So, since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on free legal aid, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the amendment to the Law on free legal aid, which aims to improve the efficiency and functioning of the Institute of Free Legal Aid as a whole. It should be known that proposals for improving free legal aid have been collected since the last novelty of this law, that is, since 2008. Many proposals have been made by the courts, and many have been made by the Ombudsman. The new proposal, which is before you, brings a number of innovations and improvements, including those that will have a direct impact on reducing the administrative obligations of applicants and professional services; consequently, the entire decision-making process on the right to free legal aid will run faster. If I mention some of the main solutions, I could say that the novelty brings together the criteria for determining the applicant's material position in the process of granting free legal aid with criteria for determining eligibility for monetary social assistance. Next, what needs to be highlighted is a direct electronic link to the central database on recipients of monetary social assistance, which is linked to entitlement to exceptional free legal aid. The introduction of an electronic link to all databases under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is the following novelty that will enable BPP professional services to better and more quickly identify the material situation of applicants for free legal assistance. Very important – we are simplifying the application form for free legal aid. It will no longer be necessary for applicants to provide information on income, other income and property, since in future the services in the courts themselves will be able to obtain all those data. We are also changing the arrangements for the reimbursement of funds paid out by the Republic of Slovenia from the budget for the purpose of free legal aid, and are expanding the grounds for granting exceptional free legal aid. The concept of free legal aid in the form of legal advice is changing. At this point, I would like to reiterate that the first legal advice is not to be withdrawn, but will be covered by legal advice, which, in terms of the conditions for obtaining free legal aid, is equivalent to the conditions in force for obtaining the first legal advice so far. With regard to the repeatedly mentioned legal aid voucher, however, I would like to point out that such legal aid does not have a direct link with the court and judicial proceedings, nor does it fall under the Free Legal Aid Act and will therefore need to be fully regulated in a separate provision, i.e. for bono legal aid, in a broader sense. If I squander, the solutions ahead of you, on the one hand, remove administrative obstacles. This allows for a faster decision on the right to free legal aid. They do not limit access to free legal aid, but even extend it as far as possible, by transforming the first legal advice into legal advice under the same conditions for a few minutes. It is also important to know that the amendment has the express support of the Ombudsman. The novelty ahead of you, we believe, will allow applicants faster access to free legal aid with additional forms of exceptional free legal aid, for example. However, the change in the concept of legal advice also increases the BPP substantially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u83	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Bojani Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Colleagues and colleagues and guests on stage! The Committee on Justice is held at the first meeting of 6th session, 12. 2. 2015, as a parent working body, dealt with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on free legal aid. The representative of the applicant – the Minister of Justice said in the introductory supplementary explanation that the proposed amendment aims to improve some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law in practice; with a view to improving the functioning of the Institute of Free Legal Aid as a whole. The proposed law provides, inter alia, the following solutions: the harmonisation of the condition and method of determining the material situation of the applicant in the grant of free legal aid, the conditions and means of determining the eligibility of financial social assistance and other rights from public funds; the introduction of an electronic link to the central database of recipients of financial social assistance and other databases, which will facilitate and facilitate the identification of the material situation of applicants; the simplification of the application form for free legal assistance; the change of arrangements for the reimbursement of financial resources intended for free legal aid paid out of the State budget; the change of the legal advice institute, which is equivalent to the first legal advice, while the latter is terminated. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that most of their comments were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. However, it reiterated its comment on Article 5 which limits free legal aid to a maximum of three illegal cases with certain exceptions. The Council of State presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal of the law and calls for prior coordination with all stakeholders, in particular the Council of Justice and the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia; and for the adoption of legislative proposals on a regular basis. As unacceptable, the Commission considers the proposed limitation of the number of open cases for which an individual can obtain free legal aid, as well as the proposed extension of the deadline for issuing a decision on the costs of free legal aid services from 15 to 30 days, thus reducing confidence in the country. The Secretary-General of the Supreme Court said that they were joining the opinion of the Council in order to transfer jurisdiction to other bodies dealing with similar issues in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the courts to decide on matters not being tried, since these proceedings were becoming almost more important than the judicial proceedings themselves. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia said that most of the services provided free legal aid were provided by lawyers, but were not invited to prepare the amendments. He drew attention to the last amendment of the Law on Lawyers, which reduced the legal rate for the provision of free legal aid services by half. The amendment in question, however, extends the deadline for their payment from 15 days to 30 days, which, in their view, only legitimises the failure to comply with the deadlines laid down so far. However, the representative of the NGO Legal Information Centre pointed out that the concept of free legal aid extends to advice. The first legal advice is withdrawn, which according to the PIC is not appropriate, as all beneficiaries do not need legal advice on the proposed scale; each time at the PIC, they face mainly requests for short legal advice. In the debate, opposition Members opposed the reduced process of adopting the proposed novel and the proposed amendments, which are not in line with free legal aid providers. The Institute of Free Legal Assistance ensures the exercise of the constitutional right to judicial protection also to the social and materially weak, and has therefore advocated the maintenance of the first legal advice and the facilitation of access to it to the widest possible range of beneficiaries. The Coalition Members supported the bill as it brings improvements and simplification of free legal aid procedures, including in the direction of recommendations made by the Ombudsman. They considered it appropriate, however, to consider the proposal of the Council of Justice to delegate the power to decide whether to grant free legal aid to another body. The Committee then adopted amendments to Article 5 of the SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee also proposed and supported its amendments to Articles 1 and 3. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the United Left Group, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and did not vote on the amendments of the United Left Group to Articles 17, 23, 27, 28 and 33. [[Incomprehensible, sign for the end of the debate]] In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u85	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u86	Good afternoon. Every time I listen to these introductory presentations, it looks like we're all one big, beautiful, nice family, and we're all so fine and everything's so fairytale and everything's so great. Of course, that is not the case yet, for it was with legal aid that we experienced a kind, interesting walk before we reached that marriage. We discussed the tariff in December. Earlier, in November it all started and then we received very clear assurances – although we urged them to, for God's sake, give the law and the tariff at the same time to be treated – to ensure that all things are done in this law, no, on a fabled basis. [[Incomprehensible]] But they didn't. They are not for one simple reason, because in fact there was no particular desire; but the facts say that we spend 6 million, little more than 6 million, on free legal aid in this country. More than half of these funds are actually earmarked for bankruptcy of legal and natural persons, or most of all for natural persons, which means that free legal aid is intended for those in bankruptcy. Whether this is the purpose of free legal aid or not, this is, of course, a major discussion today. And that is why it was our great desire in November and December to clear this issue; especially in the first place, what free legal aid is at all. Of course, we have not experienced these desires in this marriage; even more, we have experienced a kind of redefinition. The definition, above all, of who can actually offer this free legal aid. Our wish was and therefore we supported the amendment so that NGOs could also do so; not to turn it into an institute, that free legal aid will be shared by lawyers, who will eventually become lawyers on the same case as free legal aid in the first place. Such a law as it is, we do not intend to support it in the Alliance, especially because it does not regulate the essence of the issue itself. First, we considered the tariff — the wish was not heard. Then we went to the rebalancing, set the means forward and today kindly, in peace, with all the heat, and now we have solved the problem of free legal aid, given a law that will not really solve the underlying problem – that is, what free legal aid, who can do it, and how much money. And most importantly, we didn't save anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will be presented by mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u88	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The right to free legal aid is, in fact, a fundamental right. Its purpose is to allow the individual who is in poor material circumstances the right to be tried. A given right must, of course, be effective if someone wants to enforce it. It is effective when the addressee can access it quickly and in a relatively simple way. In fact, life has shown that the legal standards that we are considering today speak very differently or live their lives and are sometimes an obstacle rather than an obstacle to the speedy realization of this right. Indeed, the proceedings are long-lasting and complex, and the legal beneficiaries are first of all hampering their rights quickly; and even more so as to ensure effective judicial protection for them. They are charged with demonstrating eligibility by proposing a number of instruments and, although the procedure by nature is adjunctive, it is sometimes more important and longer than the main proceedings in the proceedings. The Ombudsman also drew attention to these problems. The changes we are considering today are a response to what life shows. The proposed changes primarily ensure the rapid response of decision-making bodies, which will help them to obtain data on the individual’s material situation more quickly by means of official information, through the use of information-based means of looking at the databases of social work centres and recipients of financial social assistance. However, the right to free legal aid is by its nature a right from public resources and the proposed amendment also refers to the uniform application of the criteria for ensuring the applicant's material status laid down in the Social Security Benefits Act. The second amendment also constitutes a contribution to effective judicial protection by offering the extent of legal aid to beneficiaries. The Institute of Legal Advice shall be withdrawn and a single legal advice shall be introduced on the position of the applicant. This change also responds to the real needs of life. The analysis showed that the number of those asking for first legal advice was falling dramatically and that in 2013 it was only 213 more applicants, while the number of those in need of comprehensive treatment was increasing. It should be pointed out that those who provide this assistance and service do not get any worse. The set and number of reasons for obtaining exceptional legal aid is also spreading. The equalisation of rights and the application of the Social Security Benefits Act should also follow the principle of the recovery of funds. So far, the country has not been the most successful in this area, mainly due to the lack of legal mechanisms. The amendment will put in place one of the envisaged mechanisms for greater profitability in those to whom the material situation is positively changing. The Court will also, on an official basis, account for the cost of the procedures of the funds received for the BPP which the parties have not notified so far. We do not agree to an explanation that the law will not regulate anything, reduce the scope of rights or reduce the number of beneficiaries – on the contrary. The scope of rights and the quality of services are significantly improving. We also do not agree that the law has not been made available to the public and is not in line with external stakeholders. The proposed amendments were prepared three years ago and published publicly. Indeed, the vice-president of the Chamber of Counsel said that they were not directly involved, but when he realized that it was not a systemic change, but merely a measure of rapid and effective decision-making and an extension of the scope of rights, he said that he supported the amendment of the law; however, the law was too ambitious and expected thorough interventions in which they wanted to participate actively. Members of the SMC Group support the efforts of the Minister of Justice to improve the situation in the judiciary, and we therefore support the proposed changes, which as a whole represent a more effective exercise of the right to BPP, which is most beneficial to the vulnerable group of citizens. At the same time, we welcome the announced more radical changes of the entire institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Amendments and additions to the Free Legal Aid Act are treated as an entire package of legal legislation – following a reduced procedure. It is supposed to be less difficult to comply with other laws and less difficult amendments to the law. It is their view of the comments made by the interested public that they show quite the opposite. For example, he made comments to the Council of Justice, as well as to the Chamber of Lawyers. Lawyers do most of the free legal aid services. Somehow we can say that there is a story from the end of last year when, following an emergency procedure, the Law on Lawyerry was considered, which reduced the payment of services for half to a lawyer who provides free legal aid services. In our view, this is a poor signal for the quality of the implementation of free legal aid or the quality of the implementation of free legal aid. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, for example, we agree with a solution simplifying the application form for free legal aid. However, we do not agree with the solution which extends the concept of free legal aid to advice; the first legal advice does not. The fact is that not all interested beneficiaries need legal advice to the extent proposed. The representative of the Legal Information Centre explained that they meet daily with requests for short legal advice at the Legal Information Centre, as this could solve a number of problems already at this level. This first legal advice also brings significant financial savings. This also often prevents further proceedings. In the SDS Group, we proposed amendments to the amendment of the Law on free legal aid, which would preserve and bring the concept of free legal aid closer to the most vulnerable individuals. It is a matter of maintaining legal certainty and ensuring equal protection of rights, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the light of the SDS Group's uncoordinated proposal for the Law on free legal aid, we cannot support it, but we will not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Free Legal Aid Institute allows persons, irrespective of their material situation, to exercise their right to judicial protection in an equal or equal manner and it is therefore important that the proposal for this amendment removes administrative obstacles to the granting and access to free legal aid. The bill simplifies the forms applying for free legal aid. It is important that the criterion and method of determining the material position of the applicant for free legal aid be harmonised as much as possible with the criteria for obtaining other rights from public funds. The draft law therefore provides that the provisions of the law governing social security benefits shall be applied to determine the material situation of the applicant and his family. The electronic links to all databases listed in the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds will also allow for a faster identification of the material position of the applicant for free legal assistance. The bill also extends the right to obtain exceptional free legal aid. In order to grant such aid, the law already gives a taxive indication of the conditions under which such aid can be granted. This amendment also adds additional criteria, namely that the applicant is entitled to exceptional free legal aid even if the main part of the applicant’s income or of any of his family members is intended to pay the institution’s security allowance. Furthermore, if it is a maintenance beneficiary who wishes to recover the maintenance allowance, as well as if it is a person who has been assigned a special case guardian in the proceedings; or for the applicant who has been deprived of his business ability. Thus, there is an additional wide range of beneficiaries for exceptional free legal assistance to those categories of persons who are in a position of material danger, which we particularly support in our Common Member. We are aware that, sadly, there are a number of such cases in our society each day. Finally, let me touch on the changes in the first legal advice that has raised the most questions. The first legal advice is a form of free legal aid for which interest in statistics has declined in recent years. This is understandable, of course, because applicants must also comply with the conditions laid down in the law for free legal aid for the first legal advice. In 2012 only 218 first legal advice was granted according to judicial statistics. On this basis, we can conclude that applicants prefer to opt for legal aid in the form of legal advice rather than first legal advice. This includes not only a brief explanation of the legal situation, but also an examination of the legal situation and the knowledge of the beneficiary of all the issues and circumstances relevant to its rights, obligations and legal relations. That is why it also makes sense for us in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia to introduce a change in this concept in order to ensure that legal advice is central. The first legal advice shall not be withdrawn, but shall be replaced by an institution which allows the beneficiary more. In the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe that the law will facilitate access to free legal aid, as well as a positive assessment by the Ombudsman, as some of the proposals in her report are taken into account in the bill. For all of this we will support the amendment of the law in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on free legal assistance is prepared, according to the applicant, on the basis of the shortcomings identified during the implementation of the law in practice. A fundamental guide in the preparation of the amendment is the more effective functioning of the free legal aid institute and the resolution of shortcomings in the implementation of the law adopted in 2008. At that time, when the Social Democrats were considering and adopting the Free Legal Aid Act, we warned that the solutions would not have the effects as predicted. We have also noted the importance of protecting personal data, as well as the Ombudsman, when the law on judicial proceedings allowed the disclosure of personal data by the beneficiary of free legal aid. The large shortcomings of the current free legal aid system have also resulted in the recovery of the funds paid under this heading. The Republic of Slovenia shall each year allocate more resources for the purpose of free legal aid and return to the budget in the form of reimbursement of costs shall be extremely few. The proposer in the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law shall provide for a uniformity of conditions and a method of determining the material situation of applicants for free legal assistance with those applicable to the allocation of other rights from public funds. The proposal also provides for a more friendly way of submitting a request for free legal assistance and establishing an electronic link to the cash social assistance recipients database as a condition for granting the necessary free assistance. Legal advice will be more accessible; the Institute of First Legal Advice is being removed and a more effective recovery of the budgetary resources paid for free legal aid provided by the Republic of Slovenia from the budget is envisaged. Despite some comments, the proposed amendment to the Free Legal Aid Act will be supported by the Social Democrats. We hope that the applicant has considered and settled the solution seriously and with full responsibility so that they do not cause new problems in implementing the law. We are aware that free legal aid is the only access to legal advice for many. This is especially important when a person is in a hopeless or hopeless situation. The proposal is broad enough to prevent people with a weak social and material situation from being restricted to the constitutional right to judicial protection and to restrict slightly the possibility of exercising the right to free legal aid; especially when it comes to unreasonable justification. The Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. However, we want our country to act in such a way that as few people as possible need free legal assistance; in particular, that there is as little violation and abuse of legislation as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you. The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u96	Your Honor! We have before us the last of the laws that we have dealt with in the context of this justice reform mini-ministration on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice. This proposal shall also be considered in a simplified procedure, without taking into account the Resolution on Regulatory Activities and without public participation. And this time the reason for change is not the implementation of Greece, such or other recommendations; the reason is more than obvious saving. The fact that the government has sent most of the proposals to the legislative process to save money in this mandate is already clear to us; it is clear to us that the government sees solutions to virtually all problems in saving it is clear. However, in order to address the most deprived segment of the population in such a highly sensitive area as ensuring an effective right to judicial protection, it is indeed beyond all the limits of good taste. The Constitution is clear in its 23rd Article — everyone has the right to rule independently, impartially and by law, on his rights and duties and on charges against him without undue delay. So, each — independent of his material position. In this country, the public has for some time felt that there are two legal states. One for the rich, the other for the poor. The Minister obviously wants to change this opinion so that there will be only one legal state in Slovenia, of course the one for the rich. In the United Left, we strongly oppose measures aimed at addressing the most vulnerable layers, which in any case bear the greatest part of the burden of the crisis. And one of these austerity measures is the abolition of the first free legal advice. However, the reason for its abolition should be that its use is declining in one way or another from year to year. In doing so, the Minister is reluctant to say that its use has decreased due to the change in 2008, which made the Institute bureaucraticly complex and long-term. That's why the Minister's gonna have to take him out. In the United Left, we proposed an amendment that would address the shortcomings of the Institute of First Legal Advice, which could make it accessible and bureaucraticly uncomplicated. But the minister says there's no money for this deprived segment of the population. That is why the question is on the ground: how much is the right of the Minister to an effective remedy worth? The cost of the first legal advice is €18 for the contractor and the cost of verifying eligibility for free legal aid is €60. And whether or not the application is granted. The Minister provides this second, more expensive solution as a compensation for the first legal advice. We could conclude from this that the minister's real purpose is not unjustifiable savings in any case. It seems to us that the excessive justice we face in Slovenia will be resolved by simply making it impossible for one group of people to do so. The easiest thing to do is, of course, for the group that cannot afford the proposed legal services. If we take a concrete case that shows how much a country costs to provide a constitutionally defined and guaranteed right, the information is as follows. In 2007, when the first legal advice was very easily available, without checking any entitlement and access to it by about 10,000 people, this is a cost of €180,000 for the country. €180,000 is practically a small thing compared to the figures we have dealt with in the budget rebalancing. But the Minister of Finance is obviously such a good negotiator that Minister Klemenčič has not been able to ensure this, or has not really tried. The Minister's arguments for the abolition of the first legal advice have not convinced us at all. In fact, the first legal advice should, in our opinion, summarise its original intended function to make the individual quickly, effectively and briefly aware of his legal position and possible action. This is also the individual who does not meet the conditions for granting free legal aid. In the United Left of the novel of the Free Legal Aid Act, we will not support it. The abolition of the institution, which is intended to guarantee a constitutional right to judicial protection, under the pretext of the ideology of necessary savings, seems unacceptable, unworthy and unjustified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The aim of free legal aid is to ensure the right to judicial protection for those persons who, depending on their property situation, could not benefit from it. In pursuing this purpose, the existing law has put so many administrative obstacles to this form of aid that many applicants do not benefit from it, even though they would be entitled to it. We are talking about demanding forms that applicants themselves cannot even fill out, a number of data, the incomes of family members that applicants themselves cannot obtain, the longevity of the free legal aid procedure and so on. In addition to administrative obstacles, applicants face other problems, such as the high distance of free legal aid providers, which is an additional obstacle for older and sick people. Applicants often do not even have the possibility of public transport, which is a major problem in accessing a free legal aid provider in the countryside. These administrative and other obstacles, which I will explain below, are clearly pointed out by Members of the New Slovenia Group in their positions. For free legal aid, it is important that it is provided quickly and that the beneficiary is actually and not only formally accessible. The fact is that it is bringing forward the proposal for today's amendment to the Free Legal Aid Act for a certain administrative burden for the applicant, among which we point out the simplification of the form and the acquisition of data on monetary social benefits under an official obligation. The first thing we should do is make everyone's first legal advice available. The proposal for today’s novel is even terminated by the first free legal advice. It is in this area that Christian Democrats see a great problem. In fact, our regulations and decisions in court proceedings and administrative proceedings are so complex and unclear that they are often difficult to understand even experts, let alone laymen – and they need help with the proper understanding of the decision. Such assistance should be available to everyone, regardless of their property status. We have proposed the implementation of free legal aid through individual municipalities. Of course, certain funds should be provided to the municipalities for this purpose. At the same time, I would like to say that some congregations have already taken care of their citizens in this way, but for the time being they provide the funds for these purposes. Furthermore, a range of beneficiaries should be extended to free legal aid in terms of the material situation of the applicants. The price for obtaining regular free legal aid is around EUR 530 per family member. For example, a person with 550 euros of income on his own is not entitled to free legal aid, even though his income is below the poverty threshold. Such incomes are hardly or are not at all sufficient for survival. Moreover, such a person is also a taxable person in judicial and administrative proceedings. However, our fees are high or too high and comparable to those of other developed countries of the European Union. A person with a minimum wage, that is about €590, can't get a loan to pay legal costs, because banks only grant credit if a person has a monthly income over the amount of the minimum wage. So such a person does not really have the possibility of accessing the court. The proposal for a new law in this regard has indeed made a significant provision regarding censorship without prejudice; however, the law should actually serve its purpose. Members of the New Slovenia Group We will not support the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free legal aid for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. If someone took a quick look at it, you'd get the impression that the Ministry has been running a lot of lawyers since we had a new government. I'll tell you why. In fact, first of all, a month ago, however, we adopted the Law on Lawyery by emergency procedure. There, we have reduced the resources that lawyers have allocated for the implementation of free legal aid by 50%. Of course, even then, we did not give them the opportunity to participate in the preliminary debate on the amendment under consideration. Today we are dealing with something similar again in a similar way. However, the matter is not as much as it may seem at the first moment. You'll say there's still a possibility of free legal aid. But it's not like that. The representative of the Legal Information Centre explained to us on the home committee what she is experiencing on a daily basis. It is that they are approached by customers who need advice, which only then can from that point forward mean a process. At times, it is with this counsel that they can make it possible for the procedure not to begin because they receive helpful guidance. Today we're putting an end to this novel. In a way, one feels that you may have wanted to save something by doing so. But, please, not on fundamental rights. This government really has some wrong priorities. On the one hand, when we adopted the budget balance, you introduce a lot of resources in the field of public administration – the Ministry of Public Administration for an information cloud. Although it was in the same breath that the representatives of the Ministry of Justice were saddened to find that they did not even have computers where they could do basic work. We will provide the means for an information cloud, but we will terminate the so-called first free advice. It's a priority problem and I don't think it would be right and it's not wise for you to do it that way. Let me focus now on the amendment. You also extend the so-called costs – payment of costs for the provision of these services from 15 to 30 days. An additional measure that will certainly make it difficult for those doing this work. Why? Leave it at least. Why the extension of payment deadlines? I think that somehow, given everything you want to put together, that there is some progress in this respect, you are seriously wrong. It's not working. And you'll see that after this change comes to pass. And it would be good to involve the professional public, those who actually do. But this time you didn't want it, and you ignored it a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you. I see there's still interest in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to the debate on the amendment and in relation to the costs. If I recall correctly, we also discussed this issue on the Committee on Justice, but I would like to draw attention to one fact. I don't think this is about the problem of the deadline as such, it's about funding, it's about money. The more the problem is that it is not a delay because the deadline is one or the other, but rather a financing issue so that there is no misunderstanding. It's not about the hands like this, it's not the hands; it's about the finances. And if I recall correctly, the Secretary-General of the Supreme Court specifically pointed out that there is no delay due to the deadline itself. Payments are financial, not hand-in-hand. Just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, I talked about finance all the time. That's exactly the problem. First, we took 50% for free legal aid to lawyers; now, I will say otherwise, we are extending the period from 15 to 30 days. You can say that this is not a deadline, because in the final phase, we can use a second word. But the problem is finance, yeah, that's what we're talking about. And given what you are introducing — I mentioned earlier an information cloud that really does not give us peace, depending on what information systems we have across different ministries. I believe that this is unfounded and that you leave at least a deadline or this period as it was. At least make it possible and don't take any more of this. That's all this amendment was about. I think it would be far wiser if we had a broader debate, perhaps there would be even more quality solutions that would be in the interest of a protected person, say those who need help, citizens and citizens; and, on the other hand, those who provide these services. Otherwise they came to the committee, told their own, and then, unfortunately, they only had one more way – that they literally asked us to do everything to avoid it. Unfortunately, we are in opposition and much more than just saying it will probably not work; given that you never support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I give the floor to Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain something. I'm just gonna start with Mrs. Bah Gibert and her statement. Now I'm going to make it easy – we're either going to get lawyers or we're an unfriendly ministry. In this regard, I would like to say first of all about the possibility of cooperation or any indication that there has been no possibility of cooperation for lawyers in the preparation of the Law on free legal assistance. In my opening presentation, I said that the proposals, namely, the material, meat for this novel, had been collected since 2008; it was published online since the end of 2013. Lawyers also made quite an announcement on the subject of this novel. We have carefully examined their comments, as well as the comments of all other stakeholders, and if they have only been taken into account – that is to say that they follow the objectives of the novel – we have also taken these comments into account. This is about the possibility of cooperation. With regard to the statement that we have halved the funds they receive for BPP to lawyers, let me say that we do not allocate funds for BPPs to lawyers, but they are received from the budget. This part of the country's legal activity pays from the budget. We have said several times in this room that the Constitutional Court has already concluded in 2009 that when lawyers carry out activities when they do not need to seek services on the market; but they are given, so I will say, by official duty or by law, their remuneration may also be lower. For the entire time, lawyers have been paid half less when doing BPP cases or cases called ex-offo representations in criminal proceedings, i.e. after the previous Law on legal tariffs. And we have only established or maintained the latest amendment to the Law on Lawyery. In the absence of this novelty, the legal tariff adopted last year and entered into force at the beginning of this year would allow lawyers to receive the same remuneration – whether they are paid from the budget or looking for work on the market. So once again, we took nothing from them, with the novel we only achieved that the situation was as it had always been. Well, that's not the point of today's debate. With regard to today’s topic, this has been repeatedly exposed, many of you have been mentioned — lifting the first legal advice and thesis or finding that NGOs will not be able to do so anymore. No, he's not holding on to each other. We do not interrupt the first legal advice, we do not take anything from anyone, but we do include the first legal advice in legal advice. We're changing the form, you get more content for the same. Under the same conditions as was now possible or offered first legal advice, the applicant will now receive legal advice. As has been said, as the first legal advice so far, NGOs will be able to offer legal advice after the new legal advice. There's no problem here. One more time. Legal advice is a much broader advice than just a few minutes ago the first legal advice, which, as you yourself have already found, for the first time, fell dramatically over the years since it was established or determined that it is not free of charge, so this institution has always been used more rarely, that is one. And as a rule, he's always resulted in legal counseling. We are now trying to make a step towards efficiency with this solution. Mrs Nova Slovenije expressed her concern that the amendment of the administrative barriers did not remove them, and she also explained in her introductory address what the problems were for citizens by meeting the forms. That's what we're doing. This is one of the main objectives of the novel. We are simplifying the forms, as I said, the courts that decide on these applications will now have electronic access to the databases, things will be acquired under official responsibility. When filling out the forms, it will no longer be necessary to provide information on the property status of the applicants and their families. The forms will be much nicer. We believe that this novelty is an important step towards removing administrative barriers or more favourable BPPs, if I may say so. Oh, if I've already started with lawyers, not that I have anything to do with them that I particularly care about or not, but if I'm going to wrap up my debate in substance right now, let me just say that. If I initially said that they had the opportunity to cooperate all the time, let me also say that, in their opinion of 6 December 2013, on the first draft of the novel, the ZBPP also stated that, with regard to the extension of the deadline, i.e. from 15 days to 30 days, they had no comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary, thank you very much for all the answers! You've said a lot, but you haven't responded to what we want to achieve behind the amendment, and that's why from 15 to 30 days. Who's using that? Perhaps to those who will provide this service. I doubt that. On the other hand, you say that the Bar and Lawyers have been involved, but there is another professional public involved. And they made it clear on the board that they weren't heard. We can say that we put something into a public debate just to put it into a public debate, to say, yes, today is in a public debate, the matter should take place for three months; we will accept it as we imagined. Compromise is what we need. And he wasn't here. That's what the opinions say. And here I think it's important, because we're just talking about some protection, also about human rights, that it's right to try to compromise. Unfortunately, this has not been the case, and I do not think that by putting an end to this or changing it, you will not have any effect. I think you're doing this primarily for the sake of finance, but, as we say, it would be wiser if the Ministry, at a time when a budget or a balance is being prepared, would have drawn more funds for this purpose and tried to tear them off someone else. You mentioned earlier that this is not about you taking because lawyers get 50% of the budget for free legal aid. In the final phase, what's the budget? State. They don't care at the final stage whether it comes from the Ministry of Justice or from any other item. The fact is that these funds are 50% lower. And that's the problem. It is, 50% less, the funds are shrinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on Article 23. We are moving on to the debate on Article 31 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I would now have responded, perhaps I was misunderstood, a respected secretary of state. I or the New Slovenia Group also had in mind that we welcome the removal of administrative obstacles, but I wanted to warn and warn that decisions are not understandable. And it is in the decisions that the parties need help understanding. That when they get them, I'll make an example of a decision on land registration or deletion. [[…]] I'm sure a lot of people, but now I'm not going directly to you, Madam Secretary of State, you can read because you're a lawyer. But in our country there are also older people who see poorly, who hear poorly, who are not lessons in the legal language, who have no Internet, who don't get to know the computer. There's a lot of people like that, and that's exactly the kind of people who need free first aid. I was confident that we would have all of us in this national assembly in adopting legislation, including these people in mind; and that we would adopt legislation that would be close to these people, not to talk about the remote use of free legal aid. I come from the countryside, we have many things – from Babna Polje, from the border with Croatia – scattered where people who are older cannot reach the first free legal aid in their place or near their place. Therefore, we also stressed how important it seems to us that these first free legal aids should be organised within the congregation. I'll give you an example. The Los Valley can somehow reach these older people, but it can't possibly reach Ljubljana or very difficult. Free legal aid when we're still going to a tax on income is for those who are the poorest. According to statistics, we know who are the poorest in the country — the elderly, the single, who live in the countryside, who have more and more. And that's why I'm warning you that we wanted these legal aids to be close to these people and that when they need to come when they need to – look, I got one paper, they're still walking in the paper, let me explain a little bit why this decision is going, and I don't understand it at all. I'm sure we have a lot of people like that. They don't understand. The legal language is very difficult for most citizens to understand. Then he goes to a lawyer or I don't know where and then he pays; but we know that these are people who have low pensions, or whatever, or cash social assistance. That's what I wanted to point out. I'm stressing again. Let us also consider the future so that free first aid may be organised through the headquarters of the congregations. I think it's important to distant places, and that's what's close to people. As you claim, we all want to be close to people – and that would be one such first step.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u111	Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u112	I can agree with you here, Mrs. Dimic. My decisions are often incomprehensible to me. In this regard, I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice supports the decision of the Supreme Court, which has also chosen to improve the quality of judicial decisions for the priorities of this year's judicial year, which means that the decisions should be more transparently written, i.e. more formally friendly; at the same time, the language of decisions should be closer to the citizens. This problem has also clearly been detected by the judiciary and intensive work on this issue is envisaged this year. I agree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. We are talking about the second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 31. Free legal aid is needed primarily by people in distress in severe distress. Sometimes it's a big problem for them to have to go to an office that's not close to their home, really financially. Since we have the Administrative Procedure Act, which provides, in Article 139, that an official conducting the procedure shall, under an official obligation, provide information on the facts which are kept by the official record of the authority responsible for the decision-making. On the other hand, it would be appropriate for the Authority to provide for its own decision on the so-called eligibility of financial social assistance. In fact, he must now provide it himself; to demonstrate this as a form that he can obtain this free legal aid, he will have to go to the centre himself, get this decision and then deliver it. Why doesn't the body just get it? By removing that first counsel, we could at least take this step to make it easier for these people to proceed. Because they're going to have to go there first, and then maybe there's not going to be a person who's going to let them do that, but they're going to have to come again and again and so on. And then they give up and leave it all behind. If we are talking about some kind of public administration, see, these records are available, the ministry should really not have a problem here, and not least, the provision of the law is about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I no longer see the request made, so I am concluding the debate. I will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Monday, 9 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on electronic commerce, a short-term procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The government representative is not present. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u116	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Articles 42, 126 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as a parent working body, prepared the following report to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electronic Business on the Market, a reduced procedure. The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is held at its 6th session. 2. 2015 examined the proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Business on the Market submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 14th session. 12. 2014 concluded that the proposal for a law amending the Law on electronic commerce on the market should be examined in a simplified manner. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and has had no comments to it. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the draft law and did not comment on it. Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar participated in the work of the committee. The Committee was already informed of the views of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia of 11. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No amendments were tabled to the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth of the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending the Law on e-commerce on the market be adopted in the present text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert wishes to speak with you on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. If it hadn't been for the second time in this session, maybe I wouldn't have called right now, but I have to. We suspended the meeting days ago because there was no representative of the Government and also a Member who should present the Committee's position. Today, again, we face the fact that there is no government representative at the point that we are dealing with. Now I really ask that you, on behalf of the leaders of the National Assembly, take care of a little more seriousness in the executive branch of power. In fact, this is no longer a relationship with the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you. I agree with you. However, the Government’s presence or absence is not a condition for us not to continue the meeting. That is why I propose that we move on. Following the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, the Group of the parties Mir Cerar, on behalf of Mrs Irena Kotnik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u120	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Law on e-commerce on the market was submitted by operators to control direct marketing or to send commercial electronic communications. The market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Information Officer and the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia have given a coordinated initiative to amend the law, and this has already been the case in the previous reference of the National Assembly. The amendment of the law that is before us today is not substantively different from that of the previous mandate or is still mutually coordinated with the supervisory authorities in this area. The proposed novelty, in view of the initiative of supervisors to send commercial electronic messages, substantially amends only the text of Article 6 of the current Law on e-commerce on the market. This lays down the conditions to be met by the service provider if it wishes to send commercial communications which are part of the information society services. One of the conditions currently in force is that the recipient agrees in advance with the transmission, and the recipient of the service may be a natural or legal person. The proposed amendment to the law redefines the requirement for agreement on the sending of electronic commercial communications, essentially eliminating the requirement for prior consent in sending commercial electronic messages to those who are legal entities. However, agreement on the sending of commercial electronic messages to natural persons will still apply, but the amendment of this law will make it possible to refer the obligation of their prior consent to another sectoral legislation, namely the Law on Electronic Communications. The last issue of consent, when the recipient of commercial electronic communications is a natural person, is more strictly regulated. There will still be a need for prior agreement. And lighter if the recipient of commercial electronic communications is a legal person in the case of which transitional consent is not necessary. In the Law on Electronic Communications, minor restrictions on legal persons’ consent exist, referring to the relationship between the buyer and the seller. The proposal for a law amending the Law on e-commerce on the market is intended to facilitate the business of undertakings or legal persons in the supply of goods and services to other undertakings, thus allowing them greater freedom of economic integration. The current regulation allows companies to do so, since they cannot send commercial e-mail to any other company or institution without the express written consent of commercial e-mail. E-mail marketing, on the other hand, is one of the cheapest marketing methods and is often limited for the reasons given for the necessary prior written consent for companies. As follows from the proposal to amend the Law on e-commerce on the market, the proposed solution is expected to facilitate business operations in the supply of goods and services to other undertakings or legal persons. Therefore, the SMC Group fully supports the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The proposal for a law amending the Law on e-commerce on the market introduces an amendment which implies alignment with the legal order of the European Union. The amendment of the law provides for greater economic freedom for the company and refers to direct marketing or commercial communications. The current law lays down in Article 6 the conditions to be met by the service provider if it wishes to send commercial communications as information tools. The condition is that the recipient of the service has to agree in advance with the consignor. This applies to both natural and legal persons. Directive 2000/31/EC leaves to the Member States the issue of the authorisation to send unsolicited messages by e-mail. The minimum condition laid down is that natural persons have to agree on this earlier. Unordered issues of consent after sending unsolicited commercial invitations remain. The amendment of the Electronic Business Act thus provides that, if the recipients of legal person services are, prior consent will no longer be required for the consignor of commercial electronic communications. However, the consent of natural persons remains. The proposal for a law should thus facilitate the business of offering goods and services to other legal persons. We agree with this in the SDS, but we point out that this is already happening in practice. Business and natural persons shall receive commercial electronic communications without prior authorisation. Thus, more than 100 unwanted commercial messages can be found in any mailbox on a daily basis. The legal change on the one hand facilitates the problems of electronic media services and, on the other hand, brings floods of electronic messages. In the SDS, we will not support the bill for that reason and concern; nor will we oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Primož Hainz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u124	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Government Representative! Allow me to convey to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Electronic Business on the Market. The amendment to Article 6 of the current Law on Electronic Business on the Market refers to the conditions to be met by the provider with regard to the sending of commercial communications. The amended regulation of this area will no longer require prior consent from the recipient of the service in sending commercial communications that are part of the information society and sent by the service provider. In the case of services for natural persons as recipients, the obligation of their prior consent will still exist, as this matter is governed by another sectoral legislation. However, if the recipients of legal entity services are to be given prior consent in sending commercial electronic communications, they will no longer be required. We expect the proposed solution to legal persons to be of considerable help in finding new business opportunities and thus expanding business. As we seek as much economic activity as possible in the Desus Group, which is also conditioned by a friendly, encouraging and simple business environment, we believe that the proposed amendment will facilitate business operations in the provision of goods and services, thereby allowing greater freedom and intensity of business. That is why in the Desus Group we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u126	Dearly Honourable High Council! The age of information technology changes relations between people. The most obvious evidence of change is the use of broad communication options. This is happening today on a much faster and – and also important – much cheaper way than in the past. Corporates have also adapted accordingly to social information changes. Even more, to a large extent they are co-formed. One of the important ways in which companies achieve the desired effects is by advertising. The area of direct marketing is strictly regulated in our country, as it is regulated in more detail by as many as four laws. They try to strike a balance between different principles, such as data protection, the right to information, freedom of economic initiative and the like. The proposed amendment to the Law on e-commerce on the market is a step towards facilitating the way for companies offering their production services to other companies. The current regulation makes market activities more difficult by e-mail as the cheapest form of direct marketing. This can be used today only if the addressee, that is to say another company, has previously agreed to receive e-mail in writing. The proposed novelty in the above cases of communication between undertakings shall be abolished, thereby releasing advertising opportunities. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this will affect sales and consequently public financial revenues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we had a few concerns at first with regard to the release of restrictions on the sending of advertising e-mails. In the light of the explanations that the obligation of prior consent will still apply to all commercial mail delivered to natural persons, we no longer have any concerns. We are also pleased with the support expressed in the proposal by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. This represents both those companies performing as consignor and those who will be in the position of recipient of liberalised e-mail messages. On the part of the National Assembly, in particular small enterprises, there are constant criticisms of excessive overindulgence. The amendment of the Law on e-commerce on the market this time brings an important simplification of electronic marketing, which will in particular allow small businesses to use the cheapest electronic mail route in their marketing activities to a greater extent than ever before. Therefore, in the Social Democrats' Group, we will also support the proposal to amend the Law on e-commerce in the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u128	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! This amendment removes the legal basis that prevents information society service providers from sending commercial communications to legal persons without their prior consent. At the same time, the rules on the consent of the recipient of the service lay down the law governing electronic communications. In accordance with European secondary legislation, the issue of consent in sending commercial electronic messages, if the recipient is a natural person, is governed by stricter – and still requires prior consent – and lighter if the recipient of such messages is a legal person. Christian Democrats believe that they could have implemented the correction already in ZEK, but the proponents then overlooked the matter. As ZEPT and ZECK are therefore not harmonised, and therefore legislation is even stricter than the directive, the amendment must be supported, particularly in terms of the free economic initiative. Natural persons shall be protected from such receiving adjectives. For companies, this mail can indeed be competent and it is difficult for the other parties to restrict advertising. One option, a public register of legal persons who do not wish to receive such texts. Here again comes the fundamental issue of competence to maintain such a register and regularly update. Christian Democrats call on the Ministry to regulate all aspects of this area as soon as possible by removing restrictions that hoard a free economic initiative. Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Law on Electronic Business in the Market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the draft law will be made on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members, with first-signed Peter Wilfan. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you for your words, Madam President; nice greetings, colleagues and others present! Let me therefore begin today with the Arabic proverb, which says whosoever wills to do something, he shall find the way: he that will not do anything shall find an excuse. The proverb could be translated into the story of the Somali girl Faise, who has been waiting for two years in difficult circumstances for the hug of a sister living in Maribor. This story has a happy ending — and of course I am happy to say it. But why is that? Slovenian legislation – the same as around the world – does not provide answers and normative arrangements for all situations brought about by life. If we could look beyond a single law that prevented Faisi from joining his family and which we are complementing today, her journey to Slovenia would be much shorter. In the Alliance Group, we are convinced that when you face such a situation, in a specific case it is even a matter of life-threateningness, react immediately, and find a solution. So we thought about how we can contribute in any way to helping a girl and her like. We found a solution in the amendment to the Foreigners Act. Let me briefly summarize what the proposed changes bring. It is the wish of all of us that such and similar cases as the Somali girl no longer occur. We have therefore stated in the law that the competent authority has a discretion in determining individual cases. Although the current law allows for a merger with a family of certain persons with international protection, the law here is clear. It's just a taxive group of people. And most importantly, the law doesn't know the exceptions. Thus, it does not allow a union with the family, for example, of sisters and brothers who are left alone, without family members, in dangerous situations for them, while their family members already have refugee status or the status of a person with recognised subsidiary protection in the Republic of Slovenia; and the possibility of their survival. All of this already applies to persons with foreign status who reside in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a permanent residence permit; and to a foreigner who last year resides on the basis of a temporary residence permit and who has a temporary residence permit issued with the validity of at least one year. So we're not talking about anything completely new. As has already been said, by supplementing Article 47a and Article b of the Aliens Act, we make exceptions because there is no reasonable reason to distinguish between relatives of foreigners residing in the Republic of Slovenia on other grounds and relatives of persons with international protection. It is worth noting here that the Constitutional Court has also pointed out that the provisions of the Law on International Protection have been that the refugee has the right to family reunification only within the primary circle of family members, i.e. spouses and children, and not his parents, brothers, sisters and others, in violation of Articles 8, 15, 53 and 153 of the Constitution, since he places insurmountable obstacles to refugees because of their specific situation, so that they can live a normal family life in the country to which they have fled. In the Alliance's Group, we are very pleased to have adopted the Constitutional Court's decision in the case of the Somali girl. In addition, it repealed the decisions of the state authorities and the judgments of the courts, which denied the right of Somali girls' sisters to bring a minor sister to Slovenia, who was in Ethiopia, where she fled, to be left alone. The decision of the Constitutional Court therefore only strengthens us in the belief that the solutions that we are proposing in the novel that we are currently considering, in respect of our Constitution and many international acts, and given the reasons for humanity, will prevent such bureaucratic surrender of human life and disproportionate interference with the protection of the family from taking place in the future. Since the Slovenian Constitution provides that the State protects the family and creates the necessary conditions for this protection, that the right to respect private and family life is protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, and on this basis also by the European Court of Human Rights, and that EU law also allows for more favourable conditions for family reunification, the decision of the Constitutional Court has been expected for us. However, since the Constitutional Court's decision because of the living conditions in which the Somali girl was found to be in, we were unable to wait, last December at the Alliance we submitted a new Law on Foreigners. Why the Aliens Act? Because, as the Constitutional Court has also found, the Law on International Protection in Work, which regulates the right to family reunification, ceased to apply or was followed by the Law on Foreigners. Provisions on the right to family reunification for refugees from 1. 1. For 2015 it contains a law on foreigners. In the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, however, we expect that the amendments to the Foreigners Act in the National Assembly will be adopted unanimously. We are convinced that in the exercise of the right of refugees to family reunification, the actual situation and the existence of genuine and close personal contacts must always be assessed — and especially when it comes to insurmountable situations and situations in which lives are at risk — are to be decided for the benefit of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. The proposal for a law addressed the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Committee is at its 6th session. 2. In 2015, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aliens Act, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members, was addressed by a first-signed member, Peter Wilfan, with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure. Amendments to the bill were tabled by the Group of Members, with the first-signed Peter Wilfan and the Ambassador of Mags. Bojano Mursich. In the supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant said that the reason for the proposed amendments was inadequate legislation that did not provide for a response to a particular situation in life. He pointed out a decision of the Constitutional Court which established that Article 16b of the Law on International Protection, which provided for family members entitled to family reunification, was incompatible with the Constitution. The draft law thus provides for a discretionary right of decision-making by the competent authority in individual cases of the granting of an entry and residence permit for family members, relatives of persons with international protection, covering a wider range of people than the current regime. 47.a. and 47.b. allow the equalisation of foreigners residing in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a permanent or temporary residence permit with foreigners recognised as refugees or recognised subsidiary protection in the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to certain shortcomings which had been corrected by subsequent amendments. The representative of the Government said that the Government did not object to the purpose of the bill, which follows the Constitutional Court's decision. He also stressed that persons with international protection are in a more favourable position compared to other third-country nationals. In view of the content of Directive 2003/86/EC, within the first three months of the recognition of the status of international protection for their family members, they do not need to meet the general conditions for granting a residence permit as provided for in Article 33 of the Aliens Act. The Commission of the National Council of State has also supported the proposal of the law. The proposal was also supported by a representative of the NGO Legal Information Centre and a Deputy Ombudsman. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. The Committee adopted two amendments to which the legislator regulates the legal matter in accordance with the instructions of the Constitutional Court, which specify the criteria for the decision-making of the competent authority. The Committee adopted the proposed amendments and then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Andrej Špenga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Allow me to give you a brief presentation of the changes and additions to the Aliens Act, which aims to realize the right to respect family life as one of the fundamental human rights. The proposer shall supplement Articles 47a and 47b of the Aliens Act with respect to the recognition of the right to merge, maintain and regain the integrity of the family with family members; that is, so that the competent authority may exceptionally consider as a family member another relative of the person with international protection if the special circumstances are relevant for family reunification in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not object to the purpose of a proposal from the Member States, which follows a decision of the Constitutional Court of 14. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It also points out that it supports the addition of the text of the proposed amendments to the Aliens Act, which sets out more precisely the specific factual circumstances of the community between relatives, which makes such a community similar to the primary family or has the same function as the primary family; as pointed out in its decision by the Constitutional Court and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This prevents the arbitrariness of the decision and the unequal treatment of persons with international protection with regard to the exercise of their right to family reunification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u136	Your Honor! Amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act are to be dealt with in a simplified manner, since the law is less difficult to supplement. The proposal for a new Law on Foreigners follows the realization of the rights to respect for family life as one of the fundamental human rights. It is interesting, however, that it is among the drafters of the law, whose purpose is to exercise the right to respect family life, that Members have recently redefined the family by amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. An interesting fact that points somewhat to a duality — I regret to say so. Oh, yeah. In the SDS Group, we will not oppose the amendment of the Foreigners Act, which regulates the right to family reunification also for foreign families with recognised refugee status or persons with recognised subsidiary protection in the Republic of Slovenia, because we respect the right to respect family life and family as traditional values offering protection and security. On the other hand, we believe that the law should not be adopted or amended; it should apply the applicable provisions of the Aliens Act. Notwithstanding the fact that the amendment of the law regulates a particular case – which is unfortunately tragic but has recently been positively resolved, which we welcome – we stress that this exception to special circumstances will have to be used very carefully and thoughtfully, to avoid all possible abuses. That is why we will also support the amendment of New Slovenia, which reasonably limits this right to a maximum of 5 persons per year. In view of all of this, we will support the proposal of the new Foreigners Act in the SDS Group, which follows the respect for the right to unite the family and respect for family life. However, we will monitor the implementation of this legal provision in order to avoid possible abuses, with a view to ensuring security.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on Foreigners, of which we are also fellow Members and Members of the Desus Group, offers the possibility of family reunification in addition to those who have refugee status, including foreigners who have recognised subsidiary protection in Slovenia. We consider that there is no reason to distinguish between the said statuses. The Novela also provides that the competent authority may consider another refugee relative or person with recognised subsidiary protection to be an exception to family reunification if special circumstances are relevant to the merger. Such an arrangement in our belief prevents future cases such as the case of a Somali teenage girl. At the same time, the proposal follows a recent decision by the Constitutional Court. So the Constitutional Court is 14. 1. On the basis of the case of the Somali girl already mentioned, 2015 decided that Article 16b of the Law on International Protection was inconsistent with the Constitution. It thus annulled the Supreme and Administrative Court judgments, which rejected the complaint of an adult sister of Somali girl who has been living in Slovenia for more than four years as a refugee. She complained about the decision of the Ministry of the Interior, which in 2013 rejected her application for family reunification in Slovenia, because Article 16b of the Law on the International Protection of the Sister does not count as family members of a person with recognised international protection. Since the finding of non-constitutionality of that article would not solve the problem itself, the Constitutional Court has also established in its judgment a means of enforcing the decision. It has decided that, exceptionally, another refugee relative, not only parents, may be considered an exception in the irregularly completed family members proceedings if special circumstances favour family reunification in Slovenia. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already decided in mid-January that there was an interest of the State for humanitarian reasons, a refugee from Somalia came to Slovenia and joined her sister in Maribor. It adopted a decision to grant a girl a temporary stay in Slovenia for five years. The girl is already safe in Slovenia. In the House of Commons, however, we wonder what would have happened to the girl if the case had not become media-based. Will we really change our legislation and make it more friendly only in cases where the personal distress of an individual will receive sufficient attention in Slovenian media? According to our assessment, this would not be necessary, as it is often possible to find a suitable solution within the existing legislation without violating it. The problem is that enforcers of this legislation often work on the smallest line of resistance; with a simple explanation – no way. On the contrary, in the Member State of Desus, we feel that everything can be done if it is willing, only sometimes a little more effort must be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. We are co-proposals of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. In a selfless story of a girl who fled to Ethiopia because of the war in Somalia and in war - killing her father and her brothers. Because of my mother’s illness, a teenage girl was thus left alone in a country where Somali children were often treated as mere consumer goods. The situation in Slovenia would not even be so media and politically exposed if they did not know that the girl still has living relatives. In Slovenia, her adult sister lives several years ago, who fled to Europe by herself and settled with us through Malta, where she has refugee status. Despite admitting that her teenage sister would come to her, she was unsuccessful in her actions. This legislation does not allow it to be joined in Slovenia by the Institute of Family Association. Social Democrats could not agree to the situation which, on the basis of legislation and discretion, prevented the organ from reaching its family as soon as possible. Although last month’s story finally came to an end — a happy ending. Following several government consultations, the Ministry of the Interior has also been actively involved in the resolution. The Ministry proposed a decision to be adopted by the Government at the end of January, namely that there is a humanitarian interest of the State to allow the girl to come to Slovenia. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that the Constitutional Court subsequently assigned to the complainant, the girl's sister, a few days later and found that the article of the Law on International Protection was not in conformity, after which the girl was prevented from coming to Slovenia. On the basis of this case, the question also arose whether the legislator could allow them to intervene in the event of a possible re-emergency of a specific life situation with exceptional means that require valuable time and complex procedures. Social Democrats are of the opinion that no and that legislation needs to be adapted and refined so that the decision-maker has, in exceptional cases, a tool on which he can decide in order to resolve the situation in these exceptional cases. By supplementing Articles 47a and 47b, the proposal for a law on foreigners introduces an exception whereby the competent authority may exceptionally consider another relative of the refugee or a person with recognised subsidiary protection. Let us try to understand that life does not flow through the letter of the law. We must therefore be particularly careful in exceptional cases when it comes to the realization of the right to family life. Many times it is the case of people who have already been so affected and put into disfavor by various procedures and excessive bureaucratic restrictions. The fear that this proposal will shake up the concept of migration policy that we have is superfluous. The proposal only follows life and its diversity, and in particular this discretionary right can allow for an easier and faster response where the situation also dictates response in order to save a person's life. The Social Democrats will support the proposal of the law, hoping and expecting us to avoid such agony in the future, which, due to the legal rigidity and long-standing bureaucratic procedures, had to be experienced by a Somali girl on a long journey to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear Members, dear Members, the rest of you are here! The Law on Foreigners was introduced to solve the problem of the right to family reunification. In Slovenia we have extremely restrictive and rigid legislation in the field of foreigners and international protection, but there are very often practical cases that confirm this fact. In the United Left, we are saddened that the law under which one of these cases will be resolved had to be put in place by a group of Members and Members. For the government should react as soon as it turns out that sectoral legislation is simply lifeless. Unfortunately, she didn't do it. The law, which I hope to adopt as soon as possible, will therefore solve only similar cases; however, it will not eliminate any systemic shortcomings that need to be addressed without delay in order to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. The problems arise in all possible areas, from the exploitation of migrant workers in our country to the exploitation of those workers who have been assigned from Slovenia to work further north, to the problems of asylum seekers and could also be listed. We expect the government to approach the systemic solutions immediately to resolve the problems that these people are facing and all of them. In order to remedy the shortcomings of the legislation, the Constitutional Court decision repealing Article 16b of the Law on International Protection, in which the right to family reunification was defined before the entry into the Law on Foreigners, further confirms. The Constitutional Court stated in the decision, quote: "The legislator has restricted the possibility of a merger with the family by counting family members for whom the fugitive may claim family reunification. In view of the fact that he ruled out any other form of the community of life, which should be considered to be a living community in a materially similar primary family, and thus protected by the right to respect for family life, he disproportionately restricted the right of refugees to respect family life, according to the Constitutional Court's assessment." End of quote. Novela thus brings only a change that relates to this particular issue. The proposal also provides that, in exceptional circumstances, the competent authority may consider the family member to be another relative if the special circumstances are to favour family reunification when it comes to the merger of a foreign family with recognised refugee status and a foreigner with a recognised subsidiary protection. As has already been said, this novel only solves part of the problem. In recent times, there has also been a lot of talk in the media about the case of a Bosnian boy who has also faced the rigidity of our system in the field of foreigners, but unfortunately in this novel of his problem we cannot solve, since other articles of the Aliens Act should be amended, which we cannot, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in this novel. There are still many such and similar cases, so we suggest that the government approach the preparation of systemic solutions as soon as possible, which will solve all similar cases in such a way as to ensure that individuals – who find themselves in very serious troubles that run from the horrors of war and who are given the only chance to survive – have a decent life and respect for human rights and freedoms. In the United Left, we will support the bill and we expect the government to take our warnings on the systemic solution of the problem seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u144	Mr President, the representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Aliens Act has been prepared in relation to the handling of a specific case – this is an example of a Somali girl who has been mediaically very receptive. I hope to say that if I were not so medial, a Somali girl today, I doubt that she would be safe with her sister in Slovenia. But if we remember the beginning. The Ministry of the Interior refused the Somali girl entry into Slovenia to live with her family, for one reason because she did not belong to the circle of persons who have the right under the law to join the family. Such a decision was confirmed in two instances, in the Administrative and Supreme Court. However, the Constitutional Court found that the Law on International Protection was inconsistent with the Constitution and ordered the Ministry of the Interior to re-judge in a specific case with the instruction that a Somali girl should be allowed to stay in Slovenia with her sister, who was seeking family reunification. Just before the issue of the Constitutional Court judgment, the Government has decided that there is an interest of the State in granting a permit for the temporary residence of a Somali girl in our country for humanitarian reasons and that the internal ministry must initiate a permit procedure when the foreign ministry provides appropriate evidence; namely, the girl's declaration that she wishes to reside in Slovenia and confirm that money is provided for her survival. The decision of the Government is now realized and the girl already resides in the Republic of Slovenia. The new Law on Foreigners regulates the possibility of family reunification for exceptional cases when there is a close family relationship between a person who has recognised refugee status in Slovenia and other relatives; that is, those who are not explicitly defined as a person who already has the right to family reunification under the law. Christian Democrats point out, however, that our current Law on Foreigners, which was just in the field of refugee rights to family reunification last spring, recognises the right to unite a family with a very wide range of people – in addition to a spouse, an extramarital partner and a minor child – also recognises this right for unmarried children of full age, underage pastors, parents of a foreigner, parents of the spouse. With the current amendment of the law, the circle of persons extends to other relatives who have close family ties. Directive 2003/86/EC of the European Union, as last amended by the Law on Foreigners, requires Member States to recognise the right to family reunification only to the spouse and the minor children of a foreigner, and for other persons only if the individual Member State so decides. We stress that our legislation on the right to family reunification is much more liberal, for example, than the laws of more developed Member States, i.e. Member States with a larger gross domestic product such as Germany, Finland, the Netherlands. It is through the Institute of the Right to Unite that the State manages migration flows. We Christian Democrats therefore advocate the view that migration from third countries should be reasonably limited in accordance with our economic and other capabilities. For this reason, we have tabled two amendments which would limit the number of exceptional cases of family reunification to a total of 10 persons per year; 5 for refugees and 5 for persons with recognised international protection. Thus, the law will allow family reunification in cases where this would dictate the specific living circumstances of the individual case, while at the same time preventing the possible abuse of this institution for the unjustifiable influx of foreigners from third countries into our country of Slovenia. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Foreigners will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia Group if our amendments tabled are, of course, adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you. The position of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, will be presented by Mr Peter Wilfan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u146	Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! Let me first say that we are pleased in the Alliance that the government has only found a solution in the Foreigners Act and Faisa has made it possible to come to Slovenia. We wonder why the thorny path of the girl lasted for two years and why the competent authorities had not already identified the following at the start. If there is not one article of the law — whether it is possible after another; for in the end it turned out that a solution is possible. As it may be heard, to this day the competent authorities have not regulated the relevant status. The first step, however, was taken. Here we thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Mr Andre Šter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But it seems to be complicated at the second step – regulating the girl's status in Slovenia. Let me remind you that the girl could come to Slovenia; in order for her to come, she had to find a donor that would provide financial support. That is why it is even more incomprehensible why status complications have apparently occurred. We can ask ourselves if this is also a slow red tape. On the basis of what is stated in the Alliance, we call on the Ministry of the Interior to arrange as soon as possible for the girl's normal life, in particular – competent, close this story once and for all. The fact is that in Slovenia there are all too many open stories that go on forever, while people suffer, not for their own fault, and even the pianist work of this story is over. Now let me go back to the bill. An amendment was adopted at the home labour body of the National Assembly, which, in our view, further limits the rights of refugees, while the proposed legal dictatorship, in our view, was sufficiently clear. This again tax return on what special circumstances mean, this time with the desire to equalize with the primary family, will, in our view, cause many of the patposia in the very cases that life brings in this vulnerable group of people. So far, detailed rules have still proved to be more harmful than beneficial. What are special circumstances should be left to practice, however, since it is clear to everyone that in such vulnerable groups as refugees, we will never be able to foresee exactly all specific circumstances. In the light of the above-mentioned amendment of the Committee in the Alliance, we have not supported it. Despite the amendment adopted, we are convinced that the amendment of the Foreigners Act is a major step forward in the exercise of the right to merge refugees with the family. However, the amendment has been adopted, and today we have a new amendment, this time by the NSI Group, which recognises the right to unite the family for a maximum of five persons per year. As an argument for this, in our view drasticly, the restriction is the prevention of the possibility of abuse of this institution for unjustified influxes of persons from third countries. We will not support such an amendment in the Alliance, because we are convinced that the advance number limit interferes with the right to family reunification. Let me illustrate the case of a family of three children from an African country. Of course, it is an imaginary example, but in reality it is still possible and also real. And, for example, since a merger with the family of three has already taken place in the Republic of Slovenia in 2015 until September, it is therefore possible to unite only two others after the amendment. But as officials decide between these three children, we don't even want to represent ourselves in the Alliance. Who will be left alone in dangerous living conditions for him, while his brothers and sisters will live with relatives in Slovenia. There is no way that we can accept the answer that this child should wait until the next year when the count begins again. Therefore, let the competent authorities decide on a case-by-case basis, as provided for in this proposal. Unfortunately, the fate of Faise is not a lonely case, but we have learned much from it. Above all, we have stepped together, and I believe that everyone sitting here today wants another happy ending. In order to avoid similar complications, the novels are presented today. In the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, however, we expect in the Alliance, despite some concerns and the amendments tabled, that the amendments to the Foreigners Act in the National Assembly will be adopted unanimously. Finally, allow me to read a quote from Dr. Aleš Bučar Ručman, sociologist and author of scientific monograph View across the boundaries of stereotypes and prejudices. He says: "The current tightening in the reception of migrants – especially those who flee to save their lives and are inexistently threatened – will be one of Europe's major black spots in history." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party will be presented by mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam President. The reason for the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Aliens Act was a specific case of life. The Law on International Protection did not allow the association of relatives outside the circle of the so-called primary family, which made it subject to constitutional review. The case did not start in November 2014, when SMC Members were introduced to him, but it was a year and a half earlier. However, he resolved with the proposal of our Parliamentary Group to the Government to apply the applicable provisions of the Law on Foreigners and solve the specific case, which it has also done. It was carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The current Aliens Act already provides for a solution to all specific situations, since, in addition to the taxive reasons for granting a residence permit, it also contains a provision giving the Authority discretion to issue such authorisation for other legitimate reasons. It also contains a provision – the granting of a permit in the interest of the State and it has been applied by the current government for humanitarian reasons. The Constitutional Court repealed the Article of the Act on International Protection, stressing that the Government had a constitutionally permissible objective, since each State is independent in the formulation of its own migration policy, with a view to ensuring security in its territory. At the same time, it found that the definition of primary family in Article 53 of the Constitution was too narrow and did not meet the required standards of respect for family reunification as defined in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Before the decision of the Constitutional Court, the lawmaker proposed an amendment whereby the competent authority would decide, within the framework of a discretionary right, to permit the entry and residence of family members or relatives, since, as they state, there is no reasonable reason for the distinction between children of foreigners residing in Slovenia and, on the other hand, the grounds and children or relatives of persons with refugee status and persons with recognised subsidiary protection. The most recent amendment to the Aliens Act of early 2014 adopted by the proposing Government introduced new paragraphs 47a and 47b; however, it did not provide for the provision that, in the case of the merger of a foreign family member, other relatives should also be considered as family members, taking into account specific circumstances; we provide that, for a constitutionally permissible reason, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment of the Law on International Protection. The government was aware that persons with international protection are in a more favourable position compared to other third-country nationals. In the light of Directive 2003/86/EC, they do not have to meet the general conditions for granting a residence permit within the first three months of the recognition of international protection status for their family members, as provided for in Article 33 of the Foreign Act, and foreigners of third countries must. This means that these persons do not need to prove their identity by means of a personal document, nor do they need to prove that they have sufficient means of subsistence for the duration of their stay and not compulsory health insurance. The unforeseeable circumstance is the granting of permission to a person whose identity you cannot identify, as also pointed out by a government that does not oppose the amendment. In order to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, we have drafted and adopted an amendment in coalition, which specifies the specific circumstances in accordance with that decision and replaces the discretionary right. Members of the SMC follow the comments of the Ministry of the Interior, which warned that in the future it would be necessary to examine the impact of the decision on other forms of family reunification under the Foreigners Act. Despite concerns relating to the granting of an authorisation to persons for whom no identity will be established, we will, by virtue of the Constitutional Court's decision to extend in the Law on International Protection a range of beneficiaries outside the concept of primary family, support the proposed amendment also in the Foreigners Act. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support the amendments of New Slovenia, which we believe has very good intentions and probably for similar reasons as we think, we have concerns. That is why — laws are general and abstract and must always refer to an indefinite number of people and even cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by the Commission. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 2, we will discuss them together. Therefore, I am putting paragraphs 1 and 2 and the amendment of the NSI Group to these articles in the debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u150	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! Our two amendments are very well-intentioned, and let me base that. First, I'd go back to the Somali girl. I remember working with journalists and journalists to save this case, although not with our help, Members and Members of the National Assembly, nor with the help of the government. And I hope to say – we would not be able to solve this case today. As I was then able to ask myself, members of the coalition were not united in the case at hand. That's exactly why we tabled the amendment. So this could open up, you said, informally one large circle of new, perhaps unjustifiable abuses and so on migrations to Slovenia. But thank God, Faisa is safe in Slovenia today, so the so-called Somali girl is together with her sister. And once again, if there were not so much media pressure, including on us Members, this case would not have come to the public at all, I would not have dealt with it at all, and today we would not have had this debate. We wouldn't have this debate today, so thank you to the press and journalists as well. As far as the amendments are concerned, I'd like to base it a little bit. Look, money's important here, of course. And if you've seen what power the media have, you can see it in the case of a Somali girl – this time justified – we can witness in the future, if we don't limit it, we can witness in the future that there will be, I don't know, 100, 200 such mergers. Because this circle is expanding. I'll give you an example: Germany, the Netherlands, Finland. You know, these countries recognise the right to family reunification only to a spouse, an extramarital partner, minors, refugees and so on. The question is, are we a rich enough country? It is not a matter of not being well - intentioned to want children who are affected, such as a Somali girl who is left to abuse and so on, not to be united with her family. The problem is if we can provide enough money for them to live quality lives in Slovenia as well. I don't know if our budget, our gross domestic product, makes it possible for our finances. And that's exactly why we've imposed that restriction. It's because of possible abuses that could happen to us. These include cousins, uncles, aunts and so on, a very large circle. There may be abuses to abuse our legislation. This is why we are talking about well-intentionedness because I do not want our legislation to be adopted for the purpose of being abused. There could be major anomalies here. Once again, this restriction is good. With regard to the Somali girl – we were in the parliamentary group of those who immediately started talking to the proposers of this law in order to resolve this case of the Somali girl. While listening to the coalition was not the best, there was no inclination to solve the problem in this way. In this case, however, the media has done one great human thing so that today it can be a Somali girl in Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we will support our amendments, once again, because of possible prevention of abuse. And what Mr Wilfan said in his position, if I may delimit it, is entirely well-intentioned. I completely understand you, but also understand us that there can then be such cases 100 a year. And we have 500 cases in five years. Then this could be a public financial problem. That's why it's the limit. We may have been in New Slovenia with proposal five, which is written in the amendment, too rigorous; we are too stuck; but the concept itself, I hope you accept it, this limit. Once again, I'm afraid of abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. But I have to strongly oppose such an amendment here. Accusing some people who have barely survived various wars and have saved their lives by fleeing to a foreign country, to a foreign culture, to a foreign society that they have not yet mastered, to accuse in advance of abuse. I'm sorry, this is very unacceptable as far as I'm concerned. We see abuses in Slovenia daily, from bad banks to failing companies to 70 billion euros of abuses that have been brought to tax havens in recent years, and we are silent. But here we accuse people who don't even know our language of how they're going to abuse our system. Secondly, I have been a guardian for six years, and in detail I know how, in relation to other, different, especially foreigners, our country works, our system works and our officials work. If anyone abuses, most of the abuses to the detriment of people who have asked for protection have been to the detriment of people who have no power — not financial, not political, not social, not knowledge of anyone. And so doing terrible fear, scaring people in Slovenia against some small children is for me, sorry, already bad. "Money is important" – I will not even comment; when I talk about people's lives, we put money first. But the money that some people steal from the crowds is quiet. And finally, to finish quickly, two days ago, I kept hearing the cry for children going. Are we just here to see if it's just five more kids?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u153	Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u154	President, thank you for your word. Introductoryly, I would like to say that the Ministry of the Interior, under the official duty of the girl, has granted a temporary stay permit of 6. 2. 2015 and as soon as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent all the evidence in accordance with the Government's decision, i.e. the declaration by the girl that she wants to stay in the Republic of Slovenia, proof that sufficient means of subsistence and adequate health insurance are provided. Since her status was regulated, she could have come to Slovenia, which happened on the 14th. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would also like to refer to the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, which would introduce quotas for the issue of residence permits for family members of persons with international protection. The Government does not support this amendment because the amendment of New Slovenia to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aliens Act proposes the introduction of quotas for the granting of residence permits to family members of persons with international protection who, in their view, would also introduce and limit migration flows. The Constitutional Court, as you know, is in its decision of 14. 1. 2015 Unquestionably, the State has the sovereign right to control and allow the entry of foreigners into its territory and to control and allow them to reside on its territory, taking into account in the assessment that refugees have insurmountable obstacles to family life in their country of origin or in any other country. Without a doubt and in view of the humanitarian reasons, however, the State is obliged to adopt such an arrangement which will allow refugees, on the basis of a specific assessment of circumstances, to exercise the right to family life in its territory. The proposed amendment by the NSI Group provides that only five persons per year could be recognised as members of the refugee family and persons with subsidiary protection because of special circumstances that would favour family reunification. This would also violate fundamental human rights, which is equality before the law. A refugee who, despite the specific circumstances identified, would be denied the right to merge his family only because the quota had already been met would be in an unequal position with a refugee whose right had been established at the time the quotas were still available. In cases of quota compliance, however, the refugee would be subject to legislation which has already been found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. It is contrary to the Constitution that the State does not identify specific circumstances that favour family reunification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We will not accept or support this amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. As the representative of the Government or the Secretary of State has already mentioned, the restriction would be a violation of fundamental constitutional law. The question also arises if, for example, five such children are found and then shared among these children, who are to be taken, who are not. I think I'm worried about this as a parent, and I can't support this amendment in any way. It is true that the situation can happen, that we will have more of these cases, but I believe, given the changes in legislation and all these things, that there will be no excesses such as these and others. That is why we will not support this amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u157	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Even in the United Left of this amendment, of course, we will not support it. It is important to know that these people are not here because they would be tourists or because they would want to be. These people are here because they run from inhuman conditions, from war, from ease, from extreme poverty, from disease, etc. Now we are in a situation where we had a Somali girl — with her family here, but she was trapped in another country in a totally inhuman situation that was inappropriate for any child’s development. Probably by delaying the adoption of the law, which today, thank God, we accept, we could risk something happening to her. And if we accept the amendment of New Slovenia, this law will solve no more than five problems a year, similar to what is just absurd. All other similar cases, and similar children will be left to themselves somewhere in a calvary in the middle of the war, in the midst of hunger. I think it's important to have this in front of our eyes today before we wash our hands and say, "We've unloaded it, we've potentially unloaded public finances." By doing so, we have made a potential contribution to the death of a child in such an unnecessary situation because of our egotism today. And here I am especially, as Matjaž Hanžek said earlier, surprised that it was those parties who spoke two days ago about how it was for children Respected and respected, that it was also for children! [[…]] And if there's any people inside you, if you're human, you'll withdraw this inhuman amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u159	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u160	Hello, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The case of the Somali girl has brought all the well-thinking people of Slovenia together to care for a minor who, because of our marriage, could not say bureaucratic obstacles to a family member, that is to say to her sister in our country. At that time, Members of the SMC sent a request to our Government to resolve this humanitarian case within the scope of the provisions of the Aliens Act, because the discretionary right of the decision-making authority is already in this law, since, in addition to the tax-exempt reasons for granting the residence permit, there is also a provision giving the Authority the right to issue such authorisation for other legitimate reasons. It also contains a provision for the granting of a permit in the interest of the State; it was applied by the current Government for humanitarian reasons. Therefore, we could also agree that these changes would not even be needed; but also those who say that it is sad that some cases can be solved only when they are media-reflective and otherwise unaware of them. It is therefore clear that we will support this law, but I must mention that we have certain concerns about the implementation of the law in practice itself. These concerns are also due to concerns or to some problems that have been presented to us by members of the Ministry or the Ministry of the Interior. They warned us, however, that it was a matter of being very careful all the time. This does not mean that we support the amendment of New Slovenia. The right to unite a family under this law to recognize only a certain number of persons is a new non-life bureaucratic obstacle, which in fact denies the purpose of amending this law, namely the exercise of the right to respect family life as one of the fundamental human rights. Following this amendment, we would therefore be allowed to respect this right only to a certain number of people, but not to other persons. That's not how it works. In order to closely monitor in the future the possibility of hospitality to persons who are entitled under Slovenian law to this hospitality, we will adopt this law and, of course, we will also warn or monitor its implementation; for concern for possible abuses, let us not blind ourselves to the fact that they are not possible, is also our concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u161	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much. This is the last time I've heard from him. I would like to respond to what findings; that these two amendments are lifeless, and I would like to repeat one thing. I think we were in the New Slovenia Group and in the Alliance's Group Alenka Bratušek, the first to go publicly to the cameras and say, "The Somali girl must come to Slovenia." I spoke informally to some members of the coalition, including the largest parties. And you said, but we're going to have a hard time supporting the bill that ZaAB originally proposed. Just because there's not gonna be too much rush. And then I mentioned that you would give me an amendment, and you said: yeah, yeah, yeah, so don't say that in New Slovenia we're doing some injustice to children and so on. And we are also, of course, concerned with these children, who are actually poor, like the Somali girl in the countries of Africa, as well as Europe or elsewhere. [[Incomprehensible]] Yeah, it's about the children of justice. I would like to answer to the Secretary of State who spoke about quotas. You made this up yourself to be quotas; use exact terms. We were talking about limits, not quotas, quotas are something else. I'd like to warn you a little while while you're talking about what might be constitutionally controversial. But you forgot to say that it would be constitutionally problematic for you to have prevented or rejected a Somali girl from entering Slovenia to live with your sister, your family. It started at the Ministry of the Interior, then continued in the Supreme Court and so on, until the Constitutional Court, which allowed the Somali girl. Let us be specific when explaining what is right and what is wrong. Because this problem started at the Ministry of the Interior. You weren't the secretary of state at the time, but I'm talking about an institution. Once again, our amendments are made out of the same thinking that we had when the original proposal was made, before the Constitutional Court ruled on the Somali girl you proposed in the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, that proposal for the original form of law. And that's when we said we were going to limit it. At that time, you also agreed with some in the coalition, but the Constitutional Court's decision has, of course, changed your opinion, your decision or any other reason. That's enough. Thank you so much for your attention and good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u163	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u164	President, thank you for your word. I'd like to give you a quick answer. The law was passed by the National Assembly in 2010 and we had to decide in the media case of the Somali girl in accordance with the legislation in force; we have also decided. And the decision of the Ministry of the Interior was confirmed by the Administrative and Supreme Court. And here I don't think there's a dilemma that the Ministry of the Interior would operate in violation of the legislation. However, the possible solution to the case was also in hand in accordance with Article 51 of the Aliens Act, i.e. when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. And these cases, I can tell you, it's about ten a year. So there are cases where the latter, due to rehabilitation as well, because of health cases, are proposed by the Ministry of Health, for culturers, as you know, the Ministry of Culture and, somehow, several cases have been proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for humanitarian reasons, as proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And as I told you earlier, the Ministry of the Interior is immediately following the arrest of all the evidence, in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 6. 2. issue of a permit. And at this point, the status of the Somali girl is settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-05-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Monday, 9th, in accordance with the timetable for the meeting. 3. 2015, in the context of the votes I'm breaking up with this day-to-day thing. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I hope some will be well by then.
