ParlaMint-DK_20141107095956	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Mogen Lykketoft (S), Bertel Haarder (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Lone Loklindt (RV), Per Clausen (EL), Kristian Jensen (V), Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Peter Skaarup (DF), Camilla Hersom (RV), Jonas Dahl (SF), Stine Brix (EL), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Brian Mikkelsen (KF): Motion for a resolution no. B 20 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing) Christian Juhl (EL), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Johan Lund Olsen (IA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 21 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the recognition of an independent Palestinian State). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on accompanying the demente and weak elderly). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Radical Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing of Hersom here as deputy to the Labour Council for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Christian Friis Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107100114	The debate is open... where is the Minister? We'll just have to wait a minute. There we have the Minister for Health and Prevention, so the negotiations in the Folketing can continue. It is Mrs Sophie Løh as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107100159	Thank you, President. An old proverb says that all good comes to him that waits. This may also apply in relation to the Minister, but if it is true, we should have a completely unsurpassed bill today. Quite so high I may not be able to get my hands up, but it is a good thing that after almost two and a half to three years of discussion the government has finally come up with what the government really thinks about changing the pharmaceutical sector. Today, the Apoteks sector plays an important role in the Danish health service. This role must be developed, while the ambition must be to ensure better availability, low prices for medicines for users and, above all, a high level of patient safety. In the Left, we are very positive that the government is proposing with the bill an increase in competition within the pharmaceutical sector, for example. to give pharmacists a freer access to create pharmaceutical devices to supplement their pharmacy, which hopefully will result in more pharmacy units being established around the country. At the same time, it is positive that there is a targeting of e.g. the unit grant. However, we also need to take care not to hide the fact that it is important for the Left to have a special focus on the supply of medicines in less densely populated areas. Here we note that with the bill the Danish Health Service can continue to require a pharmacist to establish or maintain a pharmacy branch and, as a result, an increased supply allowance. On the other hand, the draft law before us is somewhat unclear as to what specific criteria this assessment should be based on. We think we need to make that much clearer before we can at least nod to this bill. Simply tighten up so that there is greater security in relation to the supply contribution for a number of pharmacy units around in sparsely populated areas. In addition, we would like to see a number of things clarified in the draft law, not least in the interests of patient safety, in relation to the shop they are called in the bill. In relation to the question of the pharmacist's ability to sell free-trade goods, we note that, fortunately, the government agrees with the need for tightening up in this area as regards which products can naturally and appropriately be marketed in a pharmacy. That's good, but not quite good enough. We mean, for example: not that the sale of cosmetics and sweets, and what else is being sold by exciting goods around at some of the pharmacies, can reasonably be said to be native to a pharmacy. That is why we in the Left would like to see a greater tightening up of what may be termed a distortion of competition in the sale of free trade goods in the further legislative process. Finally, we basically believe that there is a need to raise the level of health policy ambition in this legislative proposal. Although the government writes a lot of fine words about the pharmaceutical sector continuing to be part of the health sector, the legislative proposal itself is completely devoid of health policy initiatives. We would very much like to help the government to rectify this, and on the Left side we propose that the bill be supplemented by a number of new initiatives to help ensure better treatment, prevent mismedication and, ultimately, also provide more health for the money. We want, for example. an amendment to the draft law which focuses on better advisory help for new citizens with a chronic suffering such as: diabetes or KOL through a medical interview, just as we would very much like to see the legislative proposal at some level focus on and initiate initiatives on the provision of a medical review to older citizens, in particular, who use many different medicines, and where, moreover, there are already a number of good experiences from pharmacists and municipalities, which we think can be drawn on and involved in the further work. But let me finish where I started. As I said, it is fine that the government has at last come up with what it really thinks, but I also think that we must be honest and say that these years of pause policy I might call it by the government in relation to the sector has probably not been particularly good for the sector, because it has also caused several years of uncertainty about the future framework conditions. And of course it has an impact on those who are today in this sector or for those who want to get into this sector. That is why we also think that the time is ripe now to focus fully on sustainable solutions and, in the case of the Left, also very much on solutions that can embrace widely in the Danish Parliament and which can thus also ensure a calm working environment for the future framework conditions. As I said, we are in favour of a large number of elements of the draft law, but there are certainly also places where we would also like to help the government to do things a little better in this area. In this context, we also hope that the Minister of Health will now take the initiative to bring together those parties of the Danish Parliament who may have an interest in trying to create common good and sustainable solutions that will ensure more health and increased competition in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107100747	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107100802	This is a very important and important legislative proposal. The pharmacists and pharmaceutical supplies in Denmark are an incredibly important part of our healthcare system, and I am really glad that this bill also makes that clarification. The pharmaceutical sector and pharmacists are important because they must ensure the quality and control of medicines. We must ensure that there is a geographically very scattered possibility of having availability for medicines, we must have delivery safety, we must have very high professional advice and guidance on pharmacies, and then, of course, we must also have medicines at the right price, and that is why we must also have a pharmaceutical service which is structured appropriately, rationally and with the right elements of competition. The amendment of the law has been a long time in the process, and it is, of course, important in this area, as in other areas, that we have taken some decisions in the interests of planning and prioritising for those who run pharmacies. That is why it is very good that we now have the first reading here today. We in the Socialist Group believe that the draft law here is very good. This calls for a necessary and proper modernisation. Let me briefly summarise the content and also make some clarifications about what has been really important for us Socialists. The Apotex has to remain part of the health care system, and it is therefore also true that it has been made clear that the Danish Health Authority still has to secure pharmaceutical funds. It is important that in future it is pharmacists who still have personal ownership and responsibility for running pharmacies. In relation to the ease of access, i.e. the geographical spread, a decentralized pharmaceutical structure, it is therefore essential that the Danish Health Authority still looks away at our large country and looks at where it should be, but we think it is quite right that it is still the case that the Danish Health Authority can impose on pharmacists the obligation to have branches where it is needed in terms of population, in order for there to be a good availability. Conversely, and this is where competition comes in, it is very good that enterprising pharmacists are given the opportunity to set up their own branches in competition with the branches and pharmacies there are. However, the pharmaceutical service needs to be modernised, and there needs to be changes in procedures and regulations, in relation to how pharmacists are appointed, how loans are given to pharmacists, how compensation is granted if Pharmacy branches are removed. And it is also important for us to ensure that the pharmaceutical service is not more expensive than necessary, so that no more than necessary instructions of public crowns are given to the pharmaceutical service. We have a good pharmaceutical service and that is also why, as Socialists, we think it is right to talk about modernising. There has been a lot of talk in the media over several years about the fact that we had to make a significant liberalisation of the pharmaceutical sector. That's not gonna happen with this legislation. There are a lot of positive and negative experiences that have been brought into the debate towards this bill from our neighbouring countries, both Norway and Sweden. Let me give you a few clarifications about the safety net in relation to the maintenance of the pharmaceutical supply in Denmark. I think it might be easier to understand how important this is if you live in the countryside, as I do, where there are relatively many kilometres to a pharmacy. There has been a great deal of discussion about the matter, and that was also what had been submitted in the first draft law that there should be a 15-kilometre limit between a pharmacy and a branch. During the consultation period, it has been reduced to 10 km. This is very good because it ensures just as many of those who are currently branches imposed by the Health Authority around the country, and it will provide significantly better coverage and thus also the possibility of maintaining a supply subsidy to the branches out in the sparsely populated areas of our country. Let me say here that it is not just a mile limit that has been set up as a criterion. There are also considerations that need to be connected in relation to traffic availability, the number of citizens, but also the consideration of how many prescriptions are actually actually being processed, so that you look at it. This is a very significant improvement in the draft law, and it meets the needs expressed in the consultation responses that have also been expressed in rural areas. My speaking time is up. This is a complex bill with a lot of elements. I think it is such an important area that I would recommend that, at least in the examination of the legislative proposal for the third reading, we discuss whether an evaluation should not be built in, perhaps in 2018, as some of the consultation proposals say. We support this draft law, but we look forward to it and I also take note of what has been said by the rapporteur of the Left. But this is basically a very good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101355	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101400	It is true that it is a legislative proposal that has been a long time in the process, and therefore I am also surprised that this will be a slightly reverse way of dealing with things, where a legislative proposal is first made, and then we will have the debate on the legislative proposal afterwards. However, as long as we have that debate, we also hope that it will be fine. We are certainly constructive. We have to say that accessibility has been discussed a great many times, and I do not necessarily feel sure that we will cover it properly in the outermost regions and in rural areas. Will the rapporteur here from the platform today give a guarantee that we will not experience scandals where there are citizens who will get too long to go to a pharmacy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101445	This is not an area that is characterised by quite a lot of scandal cases in my memory if I think back as it is now. The intention of this bill is that we will actually have more prescription-taking branches around the country, and I can also see from the consultation answers that the vast majority of the professionals believe. In other words, guarantees are very rarely given; at least most people do not dare to do so here from the parliamentary platform, but I think this bill will lead to an even better geographical coverage and still away with a very high level of professionalism in relation to guidance and advice. And that is what needs to be ensured, so that this can rightly be said to be an integral part of a very professional health care system in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101532	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101535	At least there are many people in rural areas who are really concerned, and I think we owe it to them to take that concern seriously. There is another thing that has also been much discussed in this bill, and it's shop in the shop solutions, where you risk that when you get into the pharmacy, you first have to go through the whole of Føtex with all that music and all that noise and noise and avoid all the extravagant sales assistants. How will it be ensured that there will continue to be this quality of health care where you get the experience of entering a real pharmacy where there is a line of discretion, where there is the service, the service you usually get and that you, like old Mrs Hansen, may not be led astray and sent down to look at some supplements or something else along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101620	We must be careful not to arrest anything from here, but I would still like to do a little, because my rapporteur's speech made it very clear that there is geographical spread, that there is coverage and accessibility in rural areas where I live. I can draw in on my map exactly where there are pharmacies and branches, so I have a very, very detailed picture of where the risk would be if there were not the criteria set in relation to the supply subsidy for these branches. So I have to say to Mrs Mai Mercado that I have a really, really good feeling about the fact that this legislative proposal's clarification of criteria covers what is needed to have a decentralised branch structure in the future, and I think it will be even better because we will also have the opportunity to allow enterprising pharmacists to set up what I call competitive branches, which will further ensure good coverage. In relation to shop in shop, I think that the legal text and comments very clearly specify what degree of personal and professional competence there should be in the staff and how to protect it, in relation to the fact that it should be an independent store that you sense you are in, and that ownership is not a matter of that it is retail that can own, but that it is still pharmacists appointed by the Danish Health Authority, who are the owners and responsible for the store.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101746	Mrs Sophie Løh for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101748	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. So, I think we should be honest and say that this bill is not going to lead to more pharmacies out in the sparsely populated areas; we might as well be honest and talk straight about that. If we are lucky, it leads to more pharmacies in the larger cities. That is why it is crucial to correct this bill that, in the case of the sparsely populated areas, we ensure that the coverage is not significantly reduced at least. And that is also why I mentioned in my speech that I think it is important that we look at the supply contribution in relation to pharmacy units in the sparsely populated areas and clarify the criteria on which the Danish Health Authority is to assess it from the draft law. However, when I took the floor, it was really just to hear the Socialist Health rapporteur, whether he also agreed that there is a need to raise the level of health policy ambition in this draft law, and thus also to have the bill built and amended on some points, so that we can also get some more health policy into it, for example. to focus on the prevention of mismedication and, ultimately, also to ensure more health for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107101859	Thank you very much to Mrs Sophi Løhde. I would say that no, there will be no more pharmacies, because it is after all the National Health Service that decides where the pharmacies should be. However, there may well be a development in relation to branches, which is therefore still a prescription-relief place. I can say that in my local area there is an enterprising pharmacist opening a new branch in the rural area, and that means a significant improvement in our area. And if it were to rub off on other parts of the country, it would be an improvement. But I do not think there will be any deterioration in the rural area; we have ensured that with the bill. In relation to Mrs Sophie Løhde's next question about the inclusion of a higher degree of health care and prevention, I think we should talk about it towards third reading. When I stand here on the platform and say that pharmacists are an integral part and an essential part of our health care, this means that I think we should exploit the potential of our health services. And if there is an untapped potential here, which we can clarify towards the third reading, then let us finally do so. There has also been talk of accreditation of pharmacies in relation to the Danish quality model. I am not tone down on this; it is also a question of ensuring a quality assessment of pharmacies. But let's talk about prevention, let's talk about untapped potentials; the wider the majority we get behind this law, the better it is for all regions of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102024	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102027	I agree with the rapporteur that there may well be more branches, but this is where I also appeal to us to have some honesty in the discussion in here. The enterprising pharmacists mentioned by the rapporteur are probably looking primarily at where customers are in the larger cities. That is why I am saying that we are concerned to ensure that when it comes to the sparsely populated areas, the coverage should certainly not be significantly reduced. We note, of course, that there is an element that concerns what the Danish Health Authority should assess on the basis of. It is just not very clear with the legislative proposal that lies here, what are the specific criteria, and that is one of the things we need in any case to be clarified so that there is no huge deterioration in this legislative proposal. However, I would just like to express my appreciation for the rapporteur's willingness and openness to the proposal from the Left to supplement this bill with a number of health policy initiatives in order to take it in further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102128	Thank you. With regard to further clarification of the criteria on which the Danish Health Authority must act when it comes to supply subsidies, I fully agree. This is a very, very important area for us Socialists, and I made that clear in my speech. So if a further clarification can be made here within what is the framework, let us finally help each other with that. One final comment must be that the whole pattern of pharmacists around the country is established. It's under the authority of the Health Department. So the branch part can also develop in rural areas with several branches. As I said, I have an example, but it is true, as Mrs Sophie Løhde says, that the most obvious areas are where there have been population developments over the last 10, 20, 30 years and where no new pharmacies have been created. That would be obvious, because money is easy to earn, and that is also where we have incorporated a very good element into the legislation that, of course, we should not have a supply subsidy, which everyone has received so far. It doesn't make any sense at all. When the money's easy to make, it shouldn't cost our pharmacy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102243	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Liselott Blix as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102255	Today, the pharmacy is part of our health care system. From the Danish People's Party we would like to see it become a larger part of our health care system. That is why we are also pleased that after years of speculation, meetings, conferences and debates this law is finally being brought up in the Chamber, so that a decision can be taken as to what should happen to the pharmacy system at all. There have been ideas about liberalising it, getting more ownership over. Many questions have been turned around: who should be able to own a pharmacy, how to ensure the pharmacies' shops in a sparsely populated area, how to ensure the right skills, and how to ensure that the people who need the medicine and the range that they need are in the area where they live? For the Danish People's Party, the biggest question has been and still is: How do we ensure proper pharmacy coverage in the countryside in small towns, sparsely populated areas, where many of the elderly and runners who may live out there are very dependent on their medicines without compromising safety? The first statements showed that the law was inadequate in these very areas, and we can still doubt whether what has now been changed is good enough. But as the law now stands, there is a mileage limit that should ensure that no one gets more than 15 km for a pharmacy sale. What that has to say is what we have to look at during treatment. Could this lead to some people actually getting less distance from a branch or pharmacy sale because there are now more than 15 km, or are more people going to have a pharmacy closed nearby? So, of course, we still want an assurance from the Minister that it will not be an obstacle for people living in small villages, for proper service after the law comes into force, and that there will be no longer waiting times for the pharmacies, branches and extradition points that are being seen today. We see in measurements of people's satisfaction with the pharmacies today that the waiting time is only a few minutes. We wouldn't want to buy that. We want a very good accessibility, great professionalism and a wide range of products. So there are still some thistles in the bill that we would like to have taken up with the Minister before we can decide whether we can support it. The bill will allow a so-called shop in shop solution, and that will mean that you can open one branch in another store. I have to say that this is something that I am not very happy about. In my own town we have put the post office into Føtex, and that means that you have to try between the customers who stand at the leaf shop, then those who stand with the baker, to reach the corner where the post office is located. Then there has also been a somewhat longer waiting period than in the past. I fear that this will happen the same way with a pharmacy store or a branch. There must be proper service. We must ensure discretion; we must ensure that we can get the medicine and advice that is necessary so that others do not listen or see what we need. There should be clear rules ensuring quality and independence. A clear physical, economic, legal and organisational separation between pharmacy and business must be ensured. Care must be taken to ensure that sensitive information is only seen by that staff and there must be clear separation. Some of the things we want to get into the law have been mentioned by the Left. The Danish People's Party will also have tabled an amendment, but it could of course be that we could go together to have more health into the pharmacies, medical examination for the elderly and runners who take more than five medicines, went on better use of medicines for psychiatric patients and progressed on better use of medicines for the unemployed and new drug users. These are some of the things we believe the pharmacy can play its part in and prevent many of those who go to the hospital from actually dying because they are given the wrong medicine, too much, or because there is no control. At the same time, we should also look at how we can bring out over-the-counter medicines in the store when there are small branches, so that we do not have to stand and shout it out so that everyone can hear whether people should have some special products. But we would like to share that idea with the Minister when we come to negotiate the bill. So I hope we can reach each other on these points. At any rate, it is a legislative proposal that has become considerably better than the first one that was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102754	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107102802	Over the last few years, a call has been made from several quarters for the need to liberalise the pharmaceutical sector, which is why the previous government set up a working group to look at the whole sector and to see if there was a need for greater liberalisation. The work of this government has continued and followed through, and today we are dealing first with the legislative proposal that the government has put forward on the basis of the work. The draft law does not envisage the liberalisation of the pharmaceutical sector. It calls for modernisation. For the Radical Left, it is important that pharmacists in Denmark are still part of the health sector. We want medicinal products to remain separate from other goods in the retail trade. It's something special to sell medicine. Special precautions must be taken, and that is also what this bill is proposing. It must therefore still be up to the Danish Health Authority to decide whether and where pharmacies are needed, and it must also be up to the Danish Health Authority to decide which people with a pharmaceutical degree are to be licensed as pharmacists. Where the bill is modernising according to the rules today, pharmacists are providing freer access to the establishment of branches to their pharmacies without having to be allowed to do so first by the Danish Health Service. Indeed, we are convinced of this will provide more branches and thus increase accessibility for citizens. We would also like to see more of these shops set up in shop-apotex units, so that more citizens will be able to buy their medicines in the immediate vicinity of where they otherwise make their purchases, or in or near the hospital at which they may receive treatment. All in all, we are radically satisfied with the draft law because we think that with this proposal we find the right balance in opening up a little more competition between pharmacies on the one hand and increasing accessibility for citizens on the other. And we're not gonna let the pharmacies go completely on the liberal retail market. We stress that pharmacies are still part of the health sector. As I have said, this seems to us radically balanced, which is why we can support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107103038	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107103048	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, Mr Ozlem Sara Cekic, I should like to say the following: it is very positive that, with the modernisation of the pharmaceutical sector, we want to ensure accessibility, patient safety and advice for citizens when they visit pharmacies. Nice and good. It is fine that pharmacists still have to be part of health care, and that is absolutely necessary. The Apotex sector is, of course, particularly because of the very important task that the sector is undertaking in society, and that is why we must, of course, ensure that the citizens of all pharmacies are met by high professionalism and advice when buying medicines. In the SF we think it is important for all citizens to feel safe when buying their medicines, because we must not forget that medicines differ from those in the ordinary retail trade. Therefore, medicines should never become something you equate with the purchase of goods such as toothpaste and shoes without anything wrong with toothpaste and shoes. That is why we must ensure that citizens can buy the medicine from professional pharmacies in a professional environment and with trained staff. In this way, we are also best involved in ensuring that we avoid some mismedications. And we have to say that today the pharmacies have actually been good at. We are pleased that the proposal puts an end to an old-fashioned subsidy structure and focuses on grants where there is a need to maintain availability, so that the grants do not just stay per year. automatic. We are particularly pleased that it will be possible for a pharmacy branch or a pharmacy sale to be located in or at larger hospitals. That's extremely logical. We are pleased that a new opportunity is being introduced here that can help to secure everyday life and facilitate it for sick people. In the SF, however, we have also had a great deal of concern about how the outermost regions will be affected by the proposal. It is important for us that modernisation does not mean that everyday life becomes more difficult for citizens living in the outermost regions and that there are many local pharmacies closing down. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry and the Minister have listened to our concerns and improved the criteria for branch subsidies so that fewer pharmacies in the outermost regions are threatened by the proposal. It is important for us that with this bill we ensure as many pharmacies as possible and as good an availability as possible. So we do not want to hide the fact that we are still concerned about the last five or ten pharmacies in the outermost regions, which may somehow feel threatened in this context, and we would like to enter into a dialogue with the Minister on this. One of the new elements of the proposal is, after all, the possibility of establishing pharmaceutical units in connection with other business. This is, of course, positive on the one hand because it allows for greater accessibility also in the outermost regions. On the other hand, we would like to draw attention to the need to be careful because it is therefore necessary to ensure a good separation between shop and pharmacy. And there we have to return to the statement that medicines should never be equated with ordinary goods. Therefore, in SF we also have a desire for further tightening up in connection with that part of the discussion, so that we get clarification that the new pharmacy units in this context must always be physically shielded from the store. However, in short, SF supports any improvement in the future to ensure availability and to ensure advice in this area. As I said, we have a number of concerns, but we also think that this is a good starting point for the discussion. So we hope that the concerns we have can be overcome in the committee work and that this can help to ensure a high level of professionalism in the Danish pharmacy system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107103521	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107103531	I would like to start by welcoming the fact that the very long discussion that has taken place about whether pharmacists in Denmark should be liberalised is now apparently over and that at least a broad consensus has been reached that it is extremely important that pharmacists are part of our health services rather than part of the retail trade. It is the case that medicines are very different from other goods in terms of safety, in terms of how to handle them, in relation to the advice to follow when buying them. And that is why we think it is very good that the draft law that the government is introducing here takes this starting point, and I think it is actually very positive to hear the debate in this Chamber today, so that the dreams that have previously been about releasing market forces in the pharmaceutical sector now seem to have vanished in favour of a more health-care approach. Therefore, it is also very important for us that, when we go into the details of this legislative proposal, there is no liberalisation through the back door. We have already heard once in the debate that the experience of liberalising the pharmaceutical sector from, for example, the United Kingdom. Sweden is pretty bad. In fact, this has led to the worrying situation that many people are highlighting today, namely that there has been a deterioration in the supply of medicinal products in the outermost regions. This has also led to worse advice, and we have also seen examples that pharmacies do not have the pharmaceutical range needed to come and pick up the medicine that they once went down to the pharmacy to get. So there is very good reason to maintain that pharmacists must be part of our healthcare system and must have a high quality. There are many things that we are concerned about in connection with this bill and that we would also like to address in relation to securing them or making them even better. Firstly, there is the possibility of creating more branches. We are in favour of having more opportunities to do so, but we think that the proposal goes a little too far in relation to how many branches you can set up and how much distance a single owner should be able to keep track of. It is the case that as a pharmacist you will have to be able to keep an eye on up to eight units within a total radius of 75 km to all sides. This is a nicely large area where quality needs to be ensured. We therefore think that we should look at whether it is now the right number of kilometres that have been determined in this context. Secondly, there is the issue of the conversion of pharmaceutical subsidies. So we agree that a change can be made here. Of course, it makes sense for pharmacists who are economically sustainable not to receive a state subsidy on top of that, but it is very important for us that we do not go so far as to ensure that there is not a good pharmaceutical supply throughout the country, and I hear the same concern from many other parties. It is good that the proposal in this area has been improved during the consultation phase, but it is still very important for us to look at whether it is also related to practice, that is to say that there is a connection which means that we are not only looking closely at the number of kilometres, but also at the other criteria that may be relevant when you look at it in reality. In this context, however, I have not yet had time to look at that, I would say it is also worth it, I think, to come around what is about the state guarantee in relation to loans. We must, of course, ensure that it is still in fact possible to establish a pharmacy in those areas where we know it can be difficult to obtain a loan, at least in all sorts of other contexts. Finally, there is the theme of shop in shop, as many others have also mentioned, the phenomenon of creating a unit of a pharmacy inside another shop, an option which, moreover, already exists today, but which one wants to extend with this proposal. We also have a concern that it may blur the • what should be said about the medical foundation of the pharmacy, that it will be too much reminiscent of retailing, otherwise it is the starting point of the bill that it should not do so. That is why it is very important that there are clear rules which ensure an economic, organisational and perhaps also a visual demarcation between the store in which the pharmacy is located and the pharmacy itself. Following on from the debate on retail trade, we also think it is very sensible to start cleaning up what it is for some goods you can sell in a pharmacy. There have undoubtedly been some examples of some pharmacies that have been equally creative in relation to what one might argue for belong in such a store, which is a pharmacy or a branch. But overall, we are positive about the bill and about the main direction of the bill, and I think that with the statements that have already been made, we can make a good collaboration between the parties of the Folketing and draw this bill even more in a health professional direction and also have an even stronger basis for this to mean a good supply of medicines in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104112	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Laigaard as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104124	Thank you. The proposal we are considering here today is certainly not the wish scenario of the Liberal Alliance, and just a few weeks ago we presented a new health issue in which we made it clear that we are recommending what both the Productivity Commission, the Competition Council, the Consumer Council and all the expert groups we are setting up to give us good advice have just recommended, namely that the pharmaceutical sector be liberalised and that this obsolete pharmaceutical monopoly be abolished. It is our firm belief that this is, among other things, the case. would have meant much better service, increased accessibility, as was mentioned by the other rapporteurs in this area, and that it would clearly also be in the interests of consumers to avoid long queues, tight opening hours and the excessive distance between pharmacies. Because it is a myth that the abolition of the monopoly of ownership will have a negative impact on patient safety, that is what is often said, because by liberalisation, pharmacies will remain part of the health system, and, at the same time, and above all, those responsible for the storage, advice and delivery of prescription medicines will of course continue to be professionally trained personnel, pharmacists and pharmacists, so that professional quality is in order. It is not the case that it would be a 16-year-old schoolgirl who would advise on medicine; it would, of course, be professionally trained staff. In Sweden, as we heard the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten mention, the monopoly has just been abolished and, unlike the rapporteur, I can tell you that the director of the National Pharmacy Association up there has recently stated that the high level of customer satisfaction of pharmacies shows that competition between pharmaceutical operators is driving the development in a positive direction. So in Sweden they have actually had positive experiences with this area, and after all it is a country that we often compare with. It is absurd that only designated pharmacists have the opportunity to establish and operate pharmacies. Instead, we should all be happy that all of this business, like, among other things. The Danish Supermarket, Coop and Matas, which are located in Udkantsdanmark, has shown interest in designing their own pharmacies in their shops around the country without financial support and subject to exactly the same high requirements for patient safety that pharmacists must comply with every day, precisely with trained staff. No country in Europe has fewer pharmacies per year. We are far behind the others, and even if we doubled the number of pharmacies, we would still be the country with the least pharmacies. It is a pity that we in the Folketing do not accept the outstretched hand from the business community. We have rejected their proposals and that is a pity. Instead, we are implementing regulation within the existing monopoly, and some of the changes in isolation can be sensible enough in view of the fact that you are not willing to do anything about this. For the Liberal Alliance, however, it is important that the consequences of the proposal are closely followed by clear success criteria, so that we can hold on to the ambition of a better pharmacist with a higher degree of pharmacy density. Specifically, we imagine that after two years of these rules an evaluation will be carried out and that this should show a marked increase in the number of prescription-expeding pharmacies, as well as that the increase increases availability in the country, including in rural areas. The Government's proposal also presents a number of challenges in relation to so-called free trade goods. As long as pharmacists are subject to a monopoly of ownership, pharmacists should, of course, stick to selling medicinal products and medical devices that can be marketed to reveal, for example. fever, pregnancy, chlamydia, ovulation etc. Alternatively, free trade is sold in unequal competition with the other retail trade and, according to the EU Cosmetics Regulation, no cosmetic products may be placed on the market to cure, prevent or relieve diseases. Therefore, no products subject to the EU Cosmetics Regulation should reasonably be sold in a pharmacy. Products subject to existing food legislation shall not, as a general rule, be placed on the market to cure, prevent or alleviate diseases. Therefore, only foods exempted from the legislation should be available for sale in a pharmacy. The points are important. For while free trade goods in 2006 amounted to 9.4 per cent. of pharmacists' turnover, that figure had increased to as much as 11.8% in 2012. Developments cannot be surprising, because today each pharmacy has a great incentive to sell these so-called free-trade goods. And as long as the pharmaceutical company is subject to a monopoly of ownership, it is therefore appropriate to set a ceiling on the total turnover of free-trade products by pharmacists as well as the sales of each pharmacy. So the Liberal Alliance will, of course, continue to work on the objectives we have set out here in the forthcoming committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104557	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104600	Thank you. A great many objectives and many criticisms have been expressed. I just have to ask so quietly whether the Liberal Alliance intends to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104612	We will take with us the considerations I have outlined now. After all, we are also a party that is trying to influence things. However, we are not fully clear yet as to whether we will support it. After all, we have said that, when it has to be so, there are at least a number of things about these free trade products that we would like to have done something about, and then we have to see whether the overall package will allow us to vote in favour when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104628	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104629	The reason why I have just become a little in doubt is that there have already been quite a lot of rapporteurs on the platform and have expressed the position of their parties, and I must just say that, as I see it, there is no match in relation to all the objectives that the Liberal Alliance wants and which the Liberal Alliance lists must be fulfilled. So I am left with the feeling that the likelihood that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill is very, very small. Is that wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104656	Thank you. Now I am in here for a limited period of time and I am not going to guess what the subsequent rapporteurs in this area will say. I have tried to explain the views we have in this area, namely that we generally want to see much more liberalisation, but when it cannot be, we will seek influence on the other things. Whether this means that we will finally be voting in favour of the proposal, I simply cannot go into any conjecture about it at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104718	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107104728	The Conservative People's Party can, on the basis of the draft law, support the aim of modernising the pharmaceutical sector in order to ensure that citizens have good access to medicines, high patient safety, low-cost medicines and, most importantly, that patients continue to receive the right advice on the medicines they receive. In particular, I am aware that the draft law is based on the fact that pharmacies are, and should continue to be, part of the health service rather than part of the retail trade. This is absolutely crucial for us. However, there are also important elements in the specific legislative proposal which seem to be drawing in the opposite direction to the otherwise excellent objectives. Firstly, we are concerned about the professionalism and service that citizens will encounter when they visit a shop in a shop branch in a supermarket, which can of course be up to 75 km from the mother pharmacy and where there is no requirement for pharmaceutical staffing or quality management. You can almost see the picture. You can see Mrs Hansen, who comes into Føtex and has to sneak all the way down the halls to meet the pharmacy, while she experiences all the thundering music and is attacked by some very overly eager sales assistants, just to redeem a prescription. The questions are also many in relation to the layout of the pharmacies, and whether there will be a line of discretion so that the neighbors cannot keep up with the shoulder. There are, in fact, many questions that arise, and it is therefore absolutely essential to ensure health care and patient safety that the right requirements are set in relation to the new shop in shop units. One requirement could be to place the pharmacy near the entrance. Secondly, there is the entire availability, which we have discussed very much. Here we are very concerned about rural areas and I have received several enquiries from pharmacists who say that they will end up closing with the new rules because they will lose the subsidy. Here the Ministry will object that if the pharmacy is exposed in rural areas, the branch will be dictated openly, but what is the use of this coercion? In general, as Conservatives, we do not believe much in coercion and we are concerned about how it will be implemented in practice. Then there is also the question of how often the pharmacist, who has the professional and management responsibilities, can pass if he or she has six other units to look after, which can be up to 75 km away in any direction. The wordings in the bill generally seem rather unclear and leave a risk of confusion of interests between the pharmacy and the host shop, thus watering down the health profile in the long term. We are extremely concerned about this. Then the draft law lays down that the rules designed to ensure that interests and signal confusion are confused must be clarified administratively in the following notices. It will then be a process that neither we politicians nor the industry have any influence on, and we are also concerned about that. We don't think it's reassuring. That is why clarity is needed in this area, otherwise it will end up being officials who will ultimately decide how these boundaries are to take place. So several questions need to be clarified before we can finally take a position on the proposal to amend the Pharmacy Act, but we basically agree with the overall objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105037	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105040	Thank you very much. I just need to ask a question to try to understand what the rapporteur is saying about the supply subsidy and about branches in which the rapporteur says that the Danish Health Service is imposing on pharmacists by force. As is currently the case, 74 branches receive supply subsidies in Denmark. In the future, it is estimated that up to 40 branches will need a supply subsidy, precisely because these very specific criteria of distance, population base and number of prescription replacements mean that there must be a special security of supply. Isn't it seen with Conservative eyes the right way to do it, because it is precisely here that you screen, scan, the Danish landscape to be able to take special local considerations into account, too, where the challenges are very specific so that there isn't too much distance?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105146	Thank you very much for the question. That's true, and we think it's fine to go in and give priority on paper. But when you see that you can actually risk that there may be pharmacies or branches in rural areas that say that they cannot maintain it if they do not get that subsidy, then it is just that politics and reality must fit together and not conflict with each other. That is really just the concern that I am expressing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105218	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105219	I must therefore understand that the Conservative People's Party will have loosened the criteria so that more branches will also be able to receive the subsidy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105234	What I had to say about coercion was actually how it should be formulated and developed in practice, because if a pharmacist throws the towel in the ring, we must ensure that someone picks it up. That is where we find it fundamentally problematic if it ends up meaning that no one is picking it up. That is why we are saying that we need to have some basic discussions on this. That is also why, in my question to the rapporteur, I just said that I would have liked us to have taken a concrete debate on this before it was simply sent down to the Parliamentary Chamber as a legislative proposal. Now we have it as a legislative proposal and, as with all the other rapporteurs, there are also things that I have problems with because we are concerned about accessibility. However, it is true that on paper we think it is reasonable that the pharmacies and branches located in the cities, which are able to maintain a turnover and have their own customer base, should not be supported. On this point, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105336	There is a new brief remark from Mr. Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105339	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the Conservatives whether she shares the concern of the Liberal Alliance with regard to so-called free trade goods. After all, free-trade products are things that could actually be sold out in the small areas where I come from and which I understand the rapporteur also does. It is, in fact, turnover that sometimes disappears from small businesses, so free trade can help to undermine the customer base and turnover that one might have had in small businesses, so that this free trade can, in fact, indirectly close down businesses in the small areas. Is this also a concern shared by the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105412	It is the case that you want to go in and look at the range and what products you have to sell. I think it is a little strange that when you enter a pharmacy you can not only buy pharmaceutical products, but you can buy everything else, toys and things you can take to the bath holidays that you are going to have to go to, when you are going to buy the media you are going to bring with you anyway. So I think it is sensible that we should now have a discussion on this and a definition of the goods that can be sold in pharmacies. What I have problematized in my speech today in relation to these shops in shop solutions is that I will be very sorry that Mrs Hansen comes in and is met by a salesperson from Føtex, who then guides her into the dietary supplement department rather than actually sending her to the pharmacy where she needs her food supplement with a prescription medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105504	Sir. Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105505	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she does not share the concern that pharmacists who have obtained a monopoly in some areas are selling a whole range of other goods which could have been sold elsewhere. It's a business that disappears from small businesses. It may be the goods that are almost attracting customers, so it makes it extra difficult to do business in the peripheral areas where we both live. Is that also a concern shared by the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105528	I do not really think I understand why the Liberal Alliance has that concern, because if you are a liberal, you have to think that you should be able to sell whatever you want, wherever you want. So I don't quite understand the concern of the Liberal Alliance. I can say that in the Conservative People's Party and I would like to repeat that again we have the concern that when you enter a pharmacy, you also expect to be met with a certain standard and a certain professionalism. And there has been a tendency for there to have been a lot more things sold than just medicines and that which are associated with drugs. That is why I think it is very good, and I stress this again, that we are now going in and looking at restricting the supply of goods sold in pharmacies, so as to ensure that it is the high professional standard that is high.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105617	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107105630	In general terms, I would like to thank you for the good comments and the reception given to the draft law. I would like to thank you for the broad and broad support for what we need. It is modernisation and not liberalisation of the pharmaceutical sector. Thank you for agreeing that pharmacies are, and must continue to be, part of our healthcare and not part of the retail trade, so that it is the Danish Health Authority that determines the need for pharmacies and communicates pharmaceutical authorisations to the most suitable pharmacists. It is a legislative proposal which ensures that in future there will also be advice in the pharmacies, in the branches, so that as a customer in the pharmacy you get the right products, get guidance on how to take them, get guidance on how to behave. After all, it is a bill that ensures that there is still availability for pharmacies or pharmacies around the country, so no Danes should experience having more than 15 km to the nearest branch or pharmacy, and so there will be a fine network with 10 km's distance between pharmacies and branches across our country. I think that the legislative proposal has made a great deal of progress towards ensuring accessibility also in the future and thus the security that needs to be provided, and at the same time has said that there may be no reason for us to pay money to some branches, which are typically located in the large cities, and which will work well without any money being paid, support, to them every year. For the truth is that the money is being taken from the prices of medicines and is thus being paid by those who use the medicines and, moreover, by those regions which are also part of the funding. I think we have found a very, very good balance with the draft law, but I also hear what the rapporteurs say. I hear when several pages starting with the Left point out that it may be sensible to look at the criteria or at least specify the criteria for the requirement of branches. I hear several parties say that they may be worried about whether this shop thing makes you unsure whether you are in the pharmacy or if you are in another shop, and that is not how it should be. This is a problem: how do we ensure the right balance between pharmaceutical and free-trade products in the pharmacy? There have been requests for evaluation. In general, of all parties, there has been a desire to be sure that there is this availability to the pharmacies and pharmacists around the country also forward-looking. I think that the reception given to the draft law can give hope that we can have a real, very broad majority here. I think that the comments that have been made have been relevant and worth talking about. I do not really know about the Liberal Alliance, but I simply did not know whether the pharmacists should continue to be part of the health service or whether there should be real liberalisation, but I can of course clarify this by talking to the rapporteur afterwards. However, following on from the treatment in this Chamber, I will at least call all other parties for a debate and a talk about the points that have been raised so that we can hopefully meet in a very, very broad majority in the Folketing and adopt the new Pharmacy Act, also because, as has also been pointed out, it will give the calm in the sector, which will allow the development that may have waited a little in recent years, because they have not really known whether they were bought or sold, and how the regulation should be progressed. So, from my side, I would like to thank you for a very positive reception and offer an open invitation to the parties to take part in a debate where, when we are so close, we should be able to find a very, very broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110122	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110138	The debate is open. Sir. Finn Thranum as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110201	The bill we are discussing today is one of the more technical. However, it is basically about improving the financing opportunities of the Faroese companies and, above all, about reducing administrative burdens for the Faroese industry. We in the Left can only be in favour of this. The fact that the bill is on the agenda at the request of the national government of the Faroe Islands merely makes the matter even easier to decide. In addition, this is a change of law which guarantees the Faroe Islands the same rules as in Denmark. That is why we in the Left believe that there is a solid basis for implementing the legislative proposal. With the bill, Faroese companies will be guaranteed the same rules on company pledge and claim pledge as the Danish companies. The rules provide new and more flexible options for pawning assets. Thus, the draft law helps to make business life and work even easier. It is for the Left a goal in itself. We also believe that it is essential to support the Faroese economy as far as possible. The Faroe Islands themselves have already taken the first step with the amendments to the Faroese law of registration in May 2014. Now it is up to us to make it possible for the Faroe Islands to be fully in line with the modernisation of the business pant. The Left will certainly not stand in the way of that. The bill will help to ensure a better business environment in the community. In the long term, it is not only beneficial for companies in the Faroe Islands, but also for companies here in Denmark. We must continuously make it easier to make more flexible decisions on our own business, including for Faroese companies. For this reason, the Left supports the amendment of the Law of the Faroe Islands on the care of the court and the law on the amendment of the law on the registration, bankruptcy and other laws. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110432	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110439	Thank you. In 2005, Denmark introduced new rules on company pledges and claims, and these are the rules which must now also apply to the Faroe Islands at the request of the Faroe Islands themselves. The bill means that an amendment to the Faroese Code of Procedure is being implemented so that company pledges can be introduced. As you know, the Faroe Islands have taken over property rights and direct and indirect taxes as a home government area, and thus they can make the necessary amendments to the Faroese registration law themselves. The draft law also proposes the creation of a legal basis for bringing into force all relevant amendments to the bankruptcy law for the Faroe Islands. We have a good and strong cooperation with our Faroese brothers, which is why there is, of course, good reason to comply with the desire for these changes. Against this background, I should like to inform you that we Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110541	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kenneth Christensen Berth as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110552	The Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands has asked for the same rules on company pledges and claims in the Faroe Islands as apply in Denmark. The Faroe Islands have taken back the property rights and direct and indirect taxes to the home government, and with Law No. 70 of 15 May 2014 adopted the necessary amendments to the rules on registration in the Faroe Islands. It remains to be seen that we in the Folketing are to amend the law on the administration of justice for the Faroe Islands and bring into force the provisions of the bankruptcy law for the Faroe Islands. We in the Danish People's Party voted for this. When the similar provisions were introduced in Denmark in 2005, the Danish People's Party also voted in favour here in the Assembly Hall. The amendments made to the bankruptcy law concern the fact that the new pawning options cannot be granted in favour of the debtor's or the creditor's closeness. To this end, it shall be ensured that the assets acquired by the debtor after the opening of insolvency proceedings are not included in the scope of the undertaking's and claim's assets acquired by the debtor after the opening of insolvency proceedings and, in addition, that the bankruptcy of the firm's pledges and the annulment of the claim has been rescinded and that, in specified cases, the possibility of selling assets which are subject to attachment or pledge rights is provided for. Finally, there are amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, which means that company pledges in claims can be recovered in the same way as mortgages on claims. Just as the introduction of company pledges and claim pledges is assumed to have benefited Danish industry, it is also expected to benefit Faroese business. And, of course, in Denmark we also have a great interest in a favourable economic development in the Faroe Islands. If the adoption of this proposal contributes a little in that direction, we are satisfied with it. The Danish People's Party therefore recommends that the proposal be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110740	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mie Bergmann as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110746	Thank you. These are proposals for a law amending the Law of the Faroe Islands on the care of the courts and the law amending the Law of the Land Register, the bankruptcy law and other laws (Introduction of company pledges in the Faroe Islands). The Radical Left supports the bill, which aims to modernise the pawning rules in the Faroe Islands by creating the possibility of introducing company pledges and claim pledges according to the same model as we have in Danish law and which we introduced in 2005. The companies in the Faroe Islands will thus ensure better conditions for financing by borrowing different types of assets in the companies. The national government of the Faroe Islands has also requested that the same rules be introduced for company pledges and claims in the Faroe Islands as we have in Denmark. That is why the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110839	Thank you. Sir. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107110848	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, Jonas Dahl, I would like to draw your attention to the following: the background to the draft law we are discussing here today is that the national government of the Faroe Islands has requested that rules on company pledges and claim pledges be introduced in the Faroe Islands in line with the rules on company pledges and claim pledges introduced into Danish law in 2005. The aim is so simple with this bill to create an opportunity to introduce the necessary rules on company pledges and claim pledges in the Faroe Islands too. Since the Faroe Islands have taken over the property rights as well as direct and indirect taxes as home governments, the Faroe Islands themselves can therefore make the necessary changes to the Faroese registration law, which has already been implemented on 15 May 2014. In addition, in order to introduce company pledges and claims on the Faroe Islands, it is necessary to amend the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law When the Faroe Islands and the Faroese authorities make a request of this nature, the SF is always responsive and on this basis we can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111024	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Sarah Nørris as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111032	Thank you. The bill is based on a desire from the Faroese Home Rule Government to introduce the same rules on company pledge and claim pledge as we have here in Denmark. We have no desire to block the Faroese wishes on this point. The Enhedslisten therefore supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Laigaard as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111100	Thank you for the floor. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we will go a long way in following up legislative initiatives that are desired by the Faroese Home Rule Government. This is also the case here, where the national government is asking us to give the Faroe Islands the same legal status as in the rest of Denmark, where companies and others have new and more flexible opportunities to borrow their assets. It is of course also our concern to create the best possible conditions for the financing of companies in the Faroe Islands as well, and since we can also note that the draft law provides for administrative relief for companies, we are naturally also prepared to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111137	Thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111145	On behalf of Mr. Per Stig Møller, I have the following speech to make: In 2005 we modernised the rules for pledges in the Danish Parliament, thus facilitating the opportunities for business companies to borrow their assets. After all, we are in favour of facilitating the conditions for business companies, since they are the ones who generate income and work in Denmark. Now the national government of the Faroe Islands wants to introduce the same rules for Faroese companies, and although the Faroe Islands have already taken over the area of property law and the tax area, in connection with pledges there is a need for some legislative changes that the Folketing stands for. We are, of course, in favour of the Folketing now meeting the Faroe Islands' wishes and implementing the necessary legislative changes. Conservatives can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111224	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111233	It must of course be said that it is both a legislative proposal with limited scope and a legislative proposal which has a somewhat technical character. But let me start by thanking you for the many positive statements. I would have expected that, too, I would say. After all, it is a legislative proposal that aims to create the possibility of introducing rules on company pledges in the Faroe Islands. This can be done by making the same amendments to Faroese law as were implemented in Denmark by Law No. 560 of 24 June 2005, which introduced company pledges in Denmark. The Faroe Islands themselves have implemented the necessary amendments to the Faroese legislation on registration. In addition, the introduction of company pledges in the Faroe Islands requires an amendment to the Faroese Code of Procedure and that the amendments to the Danish bankruptcy law in question, Act No. 560 of 24 June 2005 shall enter into force in the Faroe Islands. I am grateful for the positive reports, and we shall then see whether there will be a need to answer some questions as part of the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111339	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Faroes Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111354	The debate is open. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111407	Thank you. The draft law before us today concerns the question of the calculation of loss of professional capacity, and in this respect the situation is that, as a general rule, it is the loss that has been suffered, which must also be compensated. That's the general rule. The problem is that it can be a little difficult in relation to many training courses to find out what the future loss really is. The Supreme Court had the matter raised in connection with a student on the basic course of the commercial school, and for the student a discretionary future income was determined. There was no one who, when he was at the beginning of the basic cycle, knew what this would end with and what he would lose in the longer term. It seems a little paradoxical when you can see from the legal text, or at least the comments on the Civil Liability Act, that for a high school student the salary is fixed at what is called the normal annual salary, i.e. DKK 393,000. Today. It makes a huge difference, and that is what the Minister is now seeking to smooth out with this proposal, which we can fully support. You have to remember that we're multiplying these numbers, these annual wages, by ten, so it's actually going to be really big. The bill equates young people in the early part of youth education, so we really think that is very good. Having said that, it is a step in the right direction, but it is rather paradoxical that if one is in the early part of his youth education, the loss must be determined according to what is called a normal year's salary, and it has been fixed at the moment. At a rate of DKK 393,000, but if you are in the late part of your education, the courts are in a position to take practical action in relation to where you can expect to earn your income in the future. And there are, of course, a lot of people who, on that basis, will get an annual salary lower than this normal salary. So it can be said that if the accident is an early part of the training, the compensation is set at DKK 393,000 and at the late part of the training it is set for most people at a lower amount. It's a paradox. We need to look at this when we have to review the liability law at a later stage. But what the Minister brings here, we in the Left fully agree with him.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111633	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Trine Bramsen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111639	Rasmus Madsen was a commercial school student and just 19 years old when he was hit by an oncoming car. Rasmus ended up totally disabled in a nursing home, and for that not to be unreasonable enough, the young man got 1.3 million. kr. less in compensation because he went to a commercial school and not at a high school. It's not fair. And I still remember the feeling of unreasonableness that I felt when I was confronted with history... a feeling that comes back when we are again reminded today of how little equality there is in our compensation system. It is because of the unfairness that Rasmus experienced that we are dealing with this bill in the Parliamentary Chamber today. The aim of the draft law is to make young people more equal to the various upper secondary educations in the calculation of occupational loss compensation. The proposal ensures that, at the beginning of their youth education, all young people are awarded the same occupational loss compensation, irrespective of whether they attend a vocational school or a high school. We are thus sending out a clear signal to everyone. To all Denmark's young people it must be said that they are our future, that they are equally important, whether they want to be carpenters, SOSU helpers or shop workers or they want to go to high school to follow the dream of becoming a biologist or school teacher. As a society, we depend on our young people to choose youth education, both professionally and more academically, and therefore it is quite reasonable that we should value the lives of young people equally if the terrible thing should happen that they suffer a disabling accident. Money can never replace Rasmus or others who may be badly injured, but in respect of the relatives and young people, we can ensure that everyone is equal before the law, and therefore there is reason to welcome this bill that makes Denmark a more equal society. With those words, I would like to say that the Socialists warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111848	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107111903	Thank you. It is, of course, a matter that has been mentioned quite a lot, and I think one can safely say that it is right. After all, this is a grotesque matter, as the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and it is good that the government is finally getting its act together to change the law. After all, there are a few of us here in the Danish Parliament who want to strengthen vocational training, and then there is no point in them being discriminated against in this way when it comes to liability. However, there are some small things that say that equality is not entirely there. If I look at the legal notes, I can see that it says that the rules will support equality to a greater extent than they do today, and it says that it will be the general rule that there will be equality. In future, however, there will still be an estimate and there will still be an estimate of the annual wage. What is happening is that if the vocational school pupil gets an internship agreement, for example. As a hairdresser, electrician or cook, it will still be a discretionary assessment. So equality is not quite there, and that may well be surprising, because we know that there are a number of high school students who, with a Baccalaureate, are engaged in unskilled work. That is why the Minister simply has to explain to me why equality is not one hundred per cent. The second thing I would like the Minister to explain to me is why so much time has passed in changing the law, because that is a relatively small change. But apart from these objections, the Danish People's Party will of course support the amendment of the law. It is good for vocational school pupils that they become more equal. But if the Minister could just tell us why equality is not a hundred percent, that would be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112110	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mie Bergmann as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112118	These are proposals for a law amending the law on liability (change of the principles of calculation of occupational loss compensation for young people undergoing training). The draft law aims to provide, in particular, for young people who suffer from a loss of professional capacity while in the early part of their education and training courses, with the same compensation for job losses, regardless of the general training they are enrolled in. Like the other rapporteurs, most of us remember the case of 2013, which was about Rasmus, who was injured in a road accident and was awarded a compensation far less than that which Rasmus would have received if Rasmus had gone to high school. Rasmus went on a commercial training course, and therefore he received a minor replacement. And the common sense of justice in most people, I think, is such that many will agree with me that it was very, very strange. It is therefore also very gratifying to note that there is a legislative proposal on the way to remedy this injustice, because one's income in life can of course fall very differently. Nothing is decidedly the first year of education. There are so many different factors that affect your life's income. The Radicals can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112246	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112253	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I would like to draw attention to the following: SF supports the proposal to amend the law on liability, so that young people, regardless of their youth education, are granted the same compensation for lost working capacity calculated on the basis of normal annual pay. It's important and fair. With the amendment of the law, we will have a hole closed that has created an unfortunate and totally unfair inequality. That young people, for example. If you are going to business school or vocational school, you will receive less compensation if you lose your ability to work than young people who go to high school are totally unacceptable and incomprehensible. Young people who suffer an accident must have as good opportunities as possible. Firstly, the SF backs the proposal because the amendment of the law is an improvement for young people who are so unlucky to experience an accident that they lose their ability to work; young people who at that time are taking an education and who, until the accident occurs, have their whole life, including working life, ahead of them. Fortunately, it is a relatively small group, but although it is a small group, it is important for them that we ensure a proper life afterwards when they have had an accident. Secondly, the SF backs the proposal because it helps to offset the inequality that we see in education. It's a small but important step. In fact, it is important to create equality between the various youth education systems. After all, we know that the search for vocational schools today is too small, and we know that high schools have higher status than for example. Vocational training. We know that many parents would rather see their children going to high school than taking vocational training. For example, a 2012 KL study shows that only 7%. the parents would prefer their children to take a vocational training course. So equality is absolutely necessary. Cases such as those referred to by, for example, the Court of Justice. Rasmus, and as we saw last year, shows just how unreasonable it can be and how necessary it is to change this legislation so that we achieve a greater degree of equality between young people and their education. Equality in the field of youth education is important for the SF, and we see the forthcoming reform of the high school as a good opportunity to balance out the imbalance even more than is happening today. So, finally, I must stress that the value of a young person should not be inferior because she or he have chosen a particular educational path, and that is why we support the bill and look forward to the discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112608	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Sarah Nørris as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112618	Thank you. On behalf of Enhedslisten's usual rapporteur in this area, I read out the following: Today, any job loss compensation for young people in education is calculated on the basis of what they are expected to earn in the future. This means, in practice, that young people who are enrolled in vocational training and who are so unlucky to experience an accident, lose their ability or otherwise suffer a loss of professional capacity will receive less compensation than if they are admitted to secondary education. It is a principle that compensation for loss of working capacity is calculated on the basis of an estimate of what the injured person would have earned if the damage had not been done. The proposal does not aim to change this principle in general, but the proposal will allow young people in youth education, whether general upper secondary education or vocational training, to receive compensation calculated according to the so-called normal annual salary under Section 8 of the Civil Liability Act. This does not apply, however, if there has been a specialization, that is, if one can predict what the training would most likely have ended up in service. The Enhedslisten agrees that these are applicable rules leading to unfair discrimination. The Enhedslisten also agrees that the method of ensuring against this is by allowing normal annual pay to apply to all young people in youth education, and we will therefore support the proposal. However, we shall ask one question in committee. In fact, we are concerned that young people who take a secondary education should in practice specialise in the way of life, so to speak, much later. Will the proposal to apply normal annual wages only until specialization takes place mean that for young people who are longer in their education there will continue to be discrimination? There may be a need for a small correction in the proposal on this point. However, as I said, the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112812	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Laigaard as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112822	Thank you. The aim of this bill is not only to ensure that young people in education are compensated, but also to create equality between the various youth education programmes. In the case in question, as the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, the difference in the payment of the compensation available as a vocational and secondary school pupil is almost 50%. for a vocational training student. Of course, it cannot be said that in today's Denmark we have such a marked difference between the liability and the compensation that you can receive in the various youth education programmes. As the law now stands, it is based on the normal annual wage to which the training in question would probably have led. The problem is, of course, that in today's Denmark you can no longer be sure which work an education leads to, as there are many different options forward-looking. So there should be no differentiation between vocational training and upper secondary education, as there is no particular basis for expecting a higher or lower future annual income before more specialization has taken place. So in order to avoid this negative discrimination, claims of this kind should be based on the normal annual salary as proposed by the Minister of Justice. So I have to inform you that the Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112928	Thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107112946	Quite briefly, I can say that the Conservative People's Party can support this draft law, which will ensure that young people who suffer a loss of professional capacity while in the early part of their education are granted the same occupational disability allowance, regardless of the general youth education they are enrolled in. Thus, there will be equality between young people enrolled in different upper secondary educations in calculating the amount of occupational loss compensation. And Conservatives can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113013	Thank you. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113022	Thank you. It can be said that, contrary to the bill we discussed earlier on the agenda, this is not a technical legislative proposal. On the contrary, it is a very political bill, and I am very, very pleased that all parties in the Folketing support it. I also remember Rasmus, whom the Socialist rapporteur spoke about and to which several other rapporteurs referred. And I also remember very clearly the feeling that something was quite unfair: do we really have to make a difference between young people, depending on what training they are in when they have only started the training, have not chosen their way of life and have not yet decided what the training should result in? That is why I very much agree with the Socialist rapporteur when Mrs Trine Bramsen says that this, which is a small legislative proposal, but important in principle, is actually moving Denmark in a more equal direction. So thank you for your support. I would also like to try to clarify the specific questions that are being asked, but the fundamental point is that the draft law ensures a higher level of equality than today when measuring occupational loss compensation for young people enrolled in various basic youth education programmes. This is necessary not least in the light of some of the specific cases that have been brought forward. The Danish People's Party asks two questions, first of all, why so much time has passed. I shall not be able to answer that, other than that I hope it will be possible to welcome the fact that the bill is now under discussion in Parliament and that we will soon be able to adopt it. It is also asked whether there may still be situations where compensation will have to be determined on the basis of an annual estimate. At least that's how I understood the question. It is quite right, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also says, that the draft law proposes that the normal annual salary should be taken forward as a basis for calculating occupational loss compensation for young people in the early part of a basic training course. However, there may continue to be situations in which a discretionary annual salary should be fixed when there is a concrete reason for doing so. In assessing whether it is relevant or not, one will look at whether the victim is in a training situation where a final choice of lifestyle and employment has been made. And that way of life must be fleshed out in such a way that it is possible to make a realistic estimate of what will be the expected annual wage. In other words, it will depend on how far one is in the choice of final education, and I think that is sensible enough. We can say that the discussion that was raised, among other things. Because of Rasmus's case, the fact is that one is at a very early stage in the education process, where one is still very young and where one does not quite know where one will, so to speak, end up in our labour market. But I would also like to reply in writing to the question if there is a wish to do so. But thank you very much for the broad support. I think it is very good that we are getting an obvious injustice right with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113344	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113348	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think we need to look at it a little more closely and have it clarified in writing. It seems a little mysterious that one does not entirely equate, because vocational training lasts 4-5 years and is a youth education, even when one is in the main course. We also know that there is a great deal of a baccalaureate going into unskilled work. They are better off, even though the vocational school pupil has taken a youth education course. So I simply do not understand the reason why we are not equalising all those who take youth education. You could do that instead of this one with a greater degree of discretion and this estimate. For even if you take a vocational training course and after four years go out as a hairdresser, you will have more opportunity in future to continue training. So you're not locked. So could the Minister not consider whether one could look at it and sharpen it even more?
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113450	In other words, it can be said that the whole system of compensation depends on what it is that one can expect to take as a basis for the person to earn in a situation in which he had not suffered, for example, an accident. And there are different pay scenarios depending on which path you choose. But, of course, we need to be sure that the cut is right. I think it is with the bill here, where we are going to distinguish between whether you have started a youth education or whether you have chosen, so to speak, what you are going to be dealing with. Then there will always be exceptions that confirm this rule, because one can never fully foresee what one's working life will be like, and we will probably never be able to fully take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113532	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113534	I think we need to look at it anyway, because everything is not locked today. It's not like it's a world of yesterday. Young people jump back and forth between education and training, and the Minister knows that too. So I would actually just like to call on the Minister to ensure that there is a higher level of equality than the draft law says. And the Minister will reply to that in writing. Let us see if we cannot find out at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113603	I would be happy to go over what we imagine to be in writing, but as a starting point I intend to stick to the division, you might say, as the draft law proposes. But let us finally take a committee issue on that too. I'll answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113620	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113646	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113655	Thank you. I am giving this speech on behalf of the Left's usual rapporteur on the issues of Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. The proposal involves a change in road traffic law in a number of areas. First of all, we pave the way for the light lanes that will be put into operation in Denmark from 2017, starting in Aarhus, later following the opening of light lanes in Copenhagen, Odense and Aalborg. This means that we are introducing a new type of traffic which, of course, must be taken into account by the Road Traffic Code, so that we do not see accidents occurring. The rules in the bill are inspired by the rules in force in Norway and the previous Danish rules for the long-distance trams. Secondly, the draft law makes it possible for contractors and farmers to use the engine tools designed to run up to 40 km/h. instead of the current 30 km/h. As part of the policy of the Left, called "Fart with Reason," we also want the speed limit for today's modern, safe engine tools and tractors to be raised from 30 km/h. 40 km/h. The government hasn't put that into this proposal, so we'll have to get that right later. Thirdly, the rules for the carriage of wagons are simplified. If you meet the requirements for dimensions, according to the Special Transport Order's rules on authorisation-free special transport, you will no longer be required to apply for permission from the police. The Left welcomes this concrete reduction in the administrative burden on businesses. Fourthly, the Ministry of Transport is authorised to collect a fee for the issue of identity cards to persons authorised to regulate the movement of special transport services. The Left is sceptical about that part of the proposal, since we believe that this management of ID cards should be possible within the resources already available to the Transport Authority. In any case, it must not turn into a money machine. Fifthly, the draft law implements the third EU driving licence directive so as to provide a legal basis for the exchange of information between Member States on driving licences. to avoid forgery and fraud in driving licences. With these comments, the Left can, in summary, support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113905	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107113912	In Odense, where I come from, we need an easy path, and we are very pleased, just as they do in all the other cities, where infrastructure is also significantly improved. The light rail will mean a much better connection in the large Danish cities, which act as locomotives in relation to the creation of jobs • cities that house the new super-sickhouses and the major educational institutions. That is why we can hardly wait until the light rails are ready. The purpose of the bill here today is precisely to ensure the legal framework of the traffic law so that we can build our light lanes and be allowed to ride with them. This is done by adapting a number of the existing rules of the Road Traffic Code for the carriage of light rail vehicles and by adding new legislation so that the framework is in place. The very thing about having the framework in place is, of course, important before we begin to improve our infrastructure with light rails. The proposal is also intended to ensure a number of other changes to the traffic law, which I shall not go into in detail here. I would just like to say that the proposal highlights what is at the heart of a legal society, namely that we do not make our own rules or gradulate them a little in the country, even though it makes sense. We are changing the legislation here in the Folketing to meet the demands of modern society, and today we are ensuring that light rail construction can get started and we can get light rails around Denmark. With those words, I would like to say that we Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114059	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114109	It is clear that when we finally get the trams back to Denmark in 2017, because that's what it is; I know it's become so modern to call it light lanes, but it's really trams, so it's especially pleasing for the Danish People's Party, which helped to grant the first million kroner so you could get started in Aarhus. And it is the case when we talk about 2017 that I have to disappoint the Socialist rapporteur by saying that it is not Odense, but Aarhus, who comes first, also in this case. But it is true that it also comes in Odense, and it is very happy, and that later it comes in Aalborg and also here in Copenhagen. It is clear that we must then draw the attention of the drivers to the fact that there is now suddenly a new element in traffic, and that, of course, has also been regulated. What I would just like to call on the Minister to do is to look at the information in relation to this. For there are thousands of people who have taken a driving licence and who are perhaps not so familiar with the new rules that are now coming, and at least a reasonable level of information needs to be provided and the new rules brought to the attention of drivers. I think that is important and I assume that this is something that will be implemented in future driving licence lessons. I do not want to go into all the other points, but I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about the fact that vehicles can now be imported at a speed of 40 km/h. instead of 30 km/h, i.e. agricultural tools etc. I mean, they're still allowed to drive only 30 km/h, but they can drive 40 km/h. Perhaps it could then also cause them to be larger vehicles. How are we going to deal with this in relation to the 16-year-olds who have the opportunity to take a driving licence to drive these big agricultural machines? Will this give rise to some concerns about it? The government for which the Minister is Minister cannot allow young people of 16 years of age to drive a moped that can run 45 km/h, so perhaps you could also have some reservations about these large agricultural vehicles, but I am sure the Minister has a very good answer to that. There are several others who have mentioned the other parts. But this bill is, I would say, a bit like the kind of garbage can proposal that has been put into it. Finally, I would like to say that there is something about the third directive on driving licences. And perhaps we in the Danish People's Party could have demanded that this had become a bill for ourselves, because we are not enthusiastic about the third directive on driving licences, at least not for all the elements of it. But especially this element, I think, can be good in that we get this opportunity to check foreign drivers' driving licences when they drive around Denmark. So I guess we can live with that part of it. However, I would like to point out that I think it is a bit of a bad thing that so many things are put into a legislative proposal. But the Danish People's Party can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114414	I can only say that when the Aarhus Trams are mentioned, Jadak! Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Mie Bergmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114424	Thank you and I also tighten from the Aarhus area. As the other rapporteurs have said, the aim of the proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods by rail is to create the traffic framework for the establishment of the future light lanes. Amendments to the Road Traffic Code are proposed which are necessary to implement those parts of the Third Driving Licence Directive which require Member States to exchange information on issued, exchanged, replaced, extended or cancelled driving licences via the European Driving Licence Network. With regard to the traffic law, I would say that the light lanes will soon get under way, so it is of course important that everything called legislation on those things should be in place beforehand. So it is also really, really important that we adopt an adaptation of the existing rules in the Road Traffic Code before the light lanes can start. Then there is a small curl, and it must be understood that the Minister of Transport can issue proof of identity to a person who regulates the movement in connection with special transports. I very much hope that this will be a simplification. With regard to the third directive on driving licences, I note that the FDL is positive about this. This is a proposal that they have wanted for a very long time, and they welcome it. The Radical Left can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114557	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Anne Baastrup, who I believe is also from Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114603	No, I'm not. I was born and raised in Aalborg and elected on Funen, so the wish that I have been raised with since I started in the Folketing back in 1994, namely that we from the SF wanted light rails, is now beginning to be realized. But the prerequisite for realising it and for them to run correctly is that we are actually doing the rye bread work that the Ministry of Justice has now done, namely to go through the traffic law very carefully and make sure that there are no elements that have been overlooked, because it is a new type of vehicle that is now going to move around the Danish streets. The Ministry of Justice, as I see it, has largely covered all the questions that could be imagined. In addition, there is, of course, a very wide-ranging consultation round, in which I also have the impression that one has given oneself where one should give oneself and recognised that it is not just inappropriate to park on a track, and we do not want that, but that one should not park so close to effectively preventing the train from driving on the light track. So that way you've really, I think, been through it all. But it is also a proposal for collection. And I would say that it's smart that you can buy some cheaper ones. I assume they're going to be big engine tools because, and I suppose that's why you come with the proposal, they're being made where they can drive 40 km/h., and then it's going to be difficult if they have to change inside to be able to drive only 30 km/h. So it's probably quite appropriate. However, I do not agree with the Left that, in this context, we should increase the possibility of driving faster with the large engine tools. I think it's fine that you can know that they don't drive more than 30 km/h, even if they can drive more than 30 km/h. In addition, there are a large number of other small things that I do not see there being any major objections to. So, overall, we support the bill and bet that in 2017 and 2018-20 we have light lanes in all the big cities and then we start talking about Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114818	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Sarah Nørris.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107114824	I'm from Esbjerg, so I'm really looking forward to getting there. In relation to the draft law, I would like to say that it is, as a starting point, quite a mess. There I have to agree with the previous speakers that it is a mix-up of many different things that has little to do with each other. But exactly as far as light lanes are concerned, we in the Enhedslist are very excited that they will be introduced around. That is why, of course, we also need to deal with how traffic should be phased out when a new driver is introduced. But here, too, enthusiasm stops pretty quickly. We have no understanding of the fact that one chooses to set up an easy track to equate with a small bus on rails, because that is by no means the case, among other things. Because of the weight. We take note of the fact that the Ministry does not want to make it quite clear that light rail vehicles must of course have the right to drive in traffic, since they must, among other things, have the right to drive. have a road map to comply with and that if a light rail vehicle on an equal footing with buses and other road users has to stop and hold back, that will not be the gain for public transport that we want at least. It is assumed that the driver of a light rail vehicle must have at least a regular driving licence, a B licence, but that the detailed requirements are laid down in a future amendment to the Railway Act. We are very much looking forward to this, as we believe that, as a starting point, it should be trained drivers or locoaspirants who carry out the journey with light rail vehicles filled with passengers. Then we'll get to it with those engine tools. Just because a combine can drive 45 km/h., some of the new big smart ones, it doesn't have to do that. The vast majority of cars today, even though they are 10 years old, can easily drive faster than 130 km/h. They can't, and neither can they. It is not a question of the rules being aligned with reality, but it is a question of security. The brake length increases considerably if you raise the speed from 30 to 40 km/h, not least because these engine tools are heavy. So it's gonna be pretty long before they stand still, even if the brake's completely down. At the same time, these machines are often also very wide. The driver doesn't always have the best view, not because of the machine, but because of the surrounding terrain, and they often drive narrow, narrow roads in the countryside and in the smaller urban communities. By allowing an increase in speed it becomes more difficult for other traffic to overtake, and very dangerous situations can arise. By the way, it already does. With regard to the third EU driving licence directive, we are very concerned about allowing foreign authorities access to the Danish driving licence register, regardless of whether it is just a fine for driving without a seat belt. We are very concerned about the fact that it is proposed that the other EU and EEA countries should be able to look for unlimited access to our driving licence register without having to justify their search. It is a breach of legal certainty in relation to the Personal Data Act and risks setting a precedent, a precedent that Enhedslisten is absolutely opposed to. So, if it hasn't been made quite clear, Enhedslisten is against the recommendation in the bill. All in all, we are extremely negative about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115148	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115158	Thank you. I will start by informing the President that I come from Frederikshavn. We don't get an easy track, but we could see a small highway between Frederikshavn and Hjørring for us, because then we could sort of get a new triangular area up there. So I should just ask that while I'm here in the Folketing. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Code so that we can adapt the legal framework to the light lanes that are coming and be ready for them to be established and put into operation from 2017. We note in particular that the change in the definition of engine tools according to the Minister of Justice is expected to result in more engine tools being sold in Denmark. So the proposal meets the technical development that has otherwise led to a reduction in the supply of engine tools, and of course the Liberal Alliance is satisfied with this adaptation of the definition, which increases competition among suppliers on the Danish market, so that we can choose between better and cheaper solutions in the future. Similarly, we are pleased with the lifting of the demand for prior permission from the police to drive with blockcars that already meet the requirements of the dimensions. This is a superfluous authorisation and administration when the requirements of the legislation are fully met and the repeal is, of course, much needed. However, we would like to point out that we think it is important to listen to the comments made during the hearing. As can be seen from among others. The Danish Industry's comments should, of course, endeavour to bear the cost of ID cards within the framework so that the fees are not charged to the industry as a whole. With these comments, I can inform you that the Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115335	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we shall hear a rapporteur from Odense, Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115345	Thank you. Before I give the official rapporteur's speech instead of Mr. Tom Behnke, I would like to make a few personal comments, because today is a great day. Today, after all, we are dealing first with a bill involving light rails, and I actually helped to decide on the light rail in Odense on the initiative of the former mayor Jan Boye. When you have been involved in making such a decision, you have a special share in it. With the new legislation, the framework is now completely in place, and it is great both for Odense and for the other cities that establish an easy path. Now to the other elements of the bill. Conservatives can support most of it. We support regulatory simplifications and flexibility, and we support the part that is about writing in light lanes as part of the traffic code. We also support the change, which makes it possible to buy engine tools designed to drive 40 km/h, but we would have liked to have seen the step taken fully and made it legal to drive 40 km/h. for both tractors and engine tools. There is one element that we cannot support, and that is the part that concerns the fact that persons authorised to regulate the movement of special transports must pay a fee in order to get this identity card. After all, companies already pay a lot of money to these helpers and their training programmes, and it is not fair to impose even more costs on the industry. Even if it's only $380. per In short, it is still an additional cost on top of the other costs incurred by the companies. That is why we will be tabling amendments to delete that part from the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115514	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur, and thank you to all the happy Funen and Jutland rapporteurs. Now I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115529	I am happy, not least because there is such broad support for the proposal. Speaking of geography, I am originally North Jutland, and there will also be an easy path to Aalborg. That's so you can say on a little later offshoot, but it's very positive. A number of questions have been raised. First to such a more fundamental relationship, whether it's okay, so to speak, to lump several different things together in a bill. I think that is sensible. I thought so both when I was a member of parliament, and I think it also as a minister. I think it would be a little difficult to justify the fact that these various amendments should each have their own legislative proposals when we also have to organise the work in a proper manner in the Folketing. Then I would like to say to the individual elements that it is the light lanes that have also been filled in today's debate and rightly so. We have long since taken the decision to set up light lanes, so that is not what is under discussion, but it is clear that the rules of the Road Traffic Code must of course take into account the fact that there are now light lanes and the meeting that can be held with other road users. I do not really hear that much discussion is being raised about that. Then there is the whole question of this speed for engine tools, and there I understand that there are some who want them to go faster and some who want them to go at the same speed as they do today. It is only the design speed that is being changed, not the speed limit. Finally, questions were raised about the exchange of information from the driving licence register. To this I would say that this is, of course, about giving the competent authorities of the other EU and EEA countries access to data from the driving licence register for the purposes of dealing with driving licence cases. We must, of course, be aware, as in all other contexts, that we do not exchange information other than those that are relevant. I now think it seems very sensible. Perhaps it is also important to stress that the transmission of that information is carried out exclusively through so-called RESPER codes, and the codes indicate the reason why a driving licence is invalid, for example. that it must have been stolen or disfellowshipped. On the other hand, there will be no online access to the Danish driving licence register for authorities in the other Member States and no information on the grounds that a driving licence is invalid can be disclosed. Such information will still have to be obtained on the basis of a general request from the authorities of the countries concerned. Then I think there were some slightly more technical questions. I would suggest that we take them in writing in committee, but thank you for the constructive reception of the various elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115817	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141107115832	Here at the end of the meeting there is another review: Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Frank Aaen (EL): Request no. F 7 (How will the government combat tax havens, exemplified in the leaked documents of PwC, which showed the so-called Luxembourg Finte, where a number of multinational companies have evaded tax payments in a number of European countries, what new initiatives does the government intend to take nationally as well as internationally to combat tax havens, will the government reconsider the double taxation agreement concluded with Luxembourg and should the government not refrain from concluding agreements with countries that deliberately help multinational companies to cheat other countries for their tax revenues?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 11 November 2014, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda shown on the Danish Parliament's website and to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
