ParlaMint-DK_20141119125957	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill no. L 74 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations and amending the law on family allowances and the advance payment of child allowances and the law on child and youth benefits. Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a law on the conclusion of an agreement amending the Danish-Færøsk Protocol to the Nordic Double Taxation Agreement) and Bill No. L 76 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the valuation of land. Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill No. L 77 (Proposal for a Law on the Danish Nature Fund). Minister for Education (Christine Antorini): Bill No. L 78 (Proposal for a law amending the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and adult education, etc., the law on institutions for vocational education and training, the law on higher commercial education and higher technical examination (hhx) and the law on vocational training and the law on the payment of certain training activities in connection with the Act on active employment, etc.) Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 79 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions. Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 80 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy. Annually without deduction for young people on specially organized youth education) and Bill No. L 81 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy, the Act on Individual Housing Aid and the Law on withholding tax. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130120	Before we proceed to the answer to questions submitted, I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, has been withdrawn. 2, by Martin Geertsen, has been withdrawn. Then we go to the first question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, asked by Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130145	Thank you. The question is: Is it the Minister's assessment that the 2015 Finance Law Agreement provides a satisfactory contribution for the government to increase labour supply and thus ensure a more sustainable economy, and is it, including the Minister's assessment, that the agreement will increase the incentive for the unemployed to take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130204	The short answer to the question is, of course, that, like the rest of the government, I think the agreement on the Finance Act for 2015 is very satisfactory. I am very pleased with the agreement because it follows the economic direction set by the government from day one, the economic policy is responsible and sustainable, and because, within the framework of responsible economic policy, we can increase prosperity and ensure a continued green transition of society, among other things. because reforms have been carried out that have strengthened the Danish economy and thus also the room for manoeuvre. In isolation, the Finance Act does not help to strengthen the structural supply of labour or the economic incentive to work, but it does not alter the satisfactory nature of the agreement. Because the agreement in my optics must be seen as part of the government's overall policy, and the government's reforms, as you know, make a significant contribution to increased labour supply and stronger economic incentives. Let me just mention the employment reform, on which we are together, as one of the most recent examples. So the bottom line of the two themes that the questioner is setting out here is that the government is pursuing an overall economic policy that means that structural labour supply is higher by 2020 than it would have been if the course that was the case before we stepped in and that today it is better to work than it would have been at the time we stepped in. In this context, I am very pleased with the government's overall policy, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130335	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130336	In other words, the answer to the specific question is: no, the government is not satisfied with the contribution of the Finance Act to the labour supply. That is what I heard the Minister say here: he admits that, in isolation, labour is actually being pulled out of the labour market by means of the financial agreement that lies here. Then you can think of it in all sorts of other major contexts, but the Finance Act is the Finance Act and, after all, the Finance Act is the budget which provides the framework for the economy in which our country operates in the coming year. It is therefore interesting that the government itself is now saying that the budget now being put forward, which should be the framework for economic policy and thus all other policies for next year, is not in isolation satisfactory, given that it should strengthen the economy in the future. I appreciate that answer. After all, the Finance Act has not yet been finally adopted, so there is still room for amendments to be tabled, both by the government and by the opposition. I just want to ask you, for example. Yesterday, he heard about the fact that concrete, large, high-ranking Danish companies such as Danfoss and Grundfos were out in a firing round, if not in some way impressing the Minister, so he also takes it to heart and thinks: then it is not good enough for us in these days to draw up a financial agreement which will reach the next year and which will provide the framework for economic policy and, therefore, the opportunities that we need to work in both the public sector and indeed in the private sector, with regard to the conditions that will be given to it, including Danfoss, including Grundfos, including all other companies, which will help us to get the economy back on track. That is, of course, the whole basis for our having revenue for our common welfare. Doesn't that make an impression, so maybe the government should take it in and then maybe adjust just one more person towards creating some activities that will make us get more in private jobs next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130533	Sometimes we are accused of Christiansborg being such a cheese bell. I think that today it may be more like such an aquarium for goldfish, where you swim around and always think it's all new and exciting, but like forgetting what you've seen before, the first time you were around the tub there. Because the point here is that one has to see a government policy in context. And what is happening in the Danish economy right now? Indeed, there is an increase in employment. Since 2013, employment has actually progressed; more and more Danes are working more, and therefore we are increasing employment in Denmark. It is also the case that all those who view the Danish economy agree that although growth has not reached the level we had hoped for, it is the case that there is progress in the Danish economy and more progress is expected next year than there is this year. It is, of course, the result of a responsible economic policy, which has also been responsible in relation to the issues being tackled here today. In other words, our reform accounts for 2020 are quite impressive, at least we think. There are reforms that will work with increasing strength and help increase labour supply by 30,000 people by 2020. And similarly, in addition to that, there are 30 000 from the withdrawal reform, for which I would also like to take responsibility. This simply means that we are able at the same time to pursue a policy that increases the structural supply of labour, which means that today it is better worth working than when we came in; which means that more and more Danes are going to work; we see an increase in employment; and which leads, for example, to us. is one of the few economies in the world that is rated at the very highest level because there is great credibility about the Danish economy. And we do, while lifting Denmark from below, for example with the financial law we have just made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130721	I have to say to the Minister that there is only half a minute here in the second round. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130726	I'm just talking as long as I think it's gonna be okay. It's not gonna take us apart. I note once again that the government, in connection with the Finance Act, which is our budget for next year, is not an insignificant piece of legislation we are talking about here and on which an agreement is now being put forward on which we will be discussing and presumably voting through with the left-wing parties, says that, in isolation, it will make a negative contribution to ensuring sustainable economic stability next year. That is what I hear the government say; I take note of it; I accept it. I had just hoped, perhaps in my naivety, that the government, after all, looked outside the window and took note of what was happening, among other things. at Grundfos, at Danfoss and at a lot of other companies, who in these years and these months are struggling to get things together, not to say that Danfoss or Grundfos are doing it, but of course they are adjusting and putting the investments and thus the jobs where it is best worthwhile. So now that they are moving abroad, we are beginning to act politically on it too. After all, we should not make a living exporting jobs; we should like to make a living exporting some goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130831	That's why it should be a pleasure, sir. Jacob Jensen that, as a result of the government's economic policy, employment in Denmark is increasing. I know you want to paint black on black, but the reality is that those who view the Danish economy agree. When we look backwards, we can see that employment actually increases and when we look forward, we can see that the expectation is that things are going better in the Danish economy. Are things going as well as we'd like? It certainly does not, and that is why we have taken together a number of initiatives with growth packages that we are implementing. That is why it is useless to see things in isolation. Overall, with the reforms we have made, we have contributed significantly to improving the sustainability and credibility of the Danish economy. We have pursued a policy that leads to an increase in employment, and then we are able to give priority to the community and the welfare that I think the Danes love very much, and which enables us to help some of those who have the most difficulty in Danish society and who do not necessarily get on the wagon, even though we can see that the wheels are now getting going. I hope that could be a common inspiration.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130930	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119130931	I sign for the cooperation that we have had, and the very places where it has gone well, the Left has also been there every single time. I'll sign for that. But I would also like to say: does this mean that the government is saying that we have done enough; now we should not use the Finance Act to increase employment; now we should not use the Finance Act to ensure better sustainable economic stability in this country, which is precisely the prerequisite for us also having a welfare society which should take care of the weakest in this country? Does the government now say: Now we have done enough; we do not have to do any more; we have made various reforms, growth packages, tax agreements and everything else good among others. with the Left, and that is why we do not need to do any more now; now we have to have elections, so we have to pour some sugar over the acid population, and that is what we are doing with the Finance Act; we do not have to take further action enough? Is that what I hear the government say today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131020	What I have said today is that things are going better in Denmark. Employment is increasing. We have implemented reforms that have created a high degree of credibility about the Danish economy; it is helping to make things better. However, we are also pursuing a reform policy which means that we have a room for manoeuvre when making financial legislation, to help some of those who are hardest off, whether it is cancer patients, whether it is the most care-intensive elderly or some of the families in Denmark who are hardest off. And we are glad of that; we are proud of that. That is what you can do when you want to reform. It is clear that the Left would prioritize differently it is well known. There it would not be the same health boost, the same help for vulnerable families. And it's an honest matter that you have different priorities. However, our policy is that it works, that there are fewer poor people in Denmark today, that the green transition is better, and that we see that employment is increasing, and we are happy and happy to see that as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131111	Thanks to both the questioner and the minister. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, who has the next question (pm. No. S 309), and it's for the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131123	Thank you. The question is this: What is the Minister's position on the latest developments in the case of Lars Hedegaard, including that the Danish General Consulate in Istanbul on 29 August 2014 was informed that the suspected assassin had been extradited to the security authorities in order to be extradited to his country, which was supposed to be Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131151	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131153	Thank you for the question. I would like to say at the outset that this is a deeply regrettable case in which a suspected perpetrator of an assassination in Denmark against Lars Hedegaard has been released, apparently in Turkey, by the Turkish authorities. It is a suspected perpetrator who has been asked by the Danish authorities to be extradited to Denmark for prosecution here, and therefore, of course, it is both unacceptable and very regrettable, I think we have not yet received an answer from the Turkish authorities on what has happened. I assume that today's specific question is whether there should have been a different response to the information contained in a letter from a Turkish prison at the end of August. Perhaps I should start by stating that the relevant Turkish authorities should be fully aware that we are dealing with a Danish citizen to be extradited to Denmark. This is evident, of course, from the extradition material sent to Turkey. The Turkish court decision of 20 May states that the person concerned is a Danish national and that the person concerned must be in custody until he or she can be extradited to Denmark. The Danish Consulate General has made a consular visit to the person concerned in prison, which is precisely because he is a Danish citizen. Otherwise, of course, there would not be a right of visit from the Danish General Consulate. So whatever a Turkish prison may want to write and whatever the letter says in August, it does not give the authorities involved any reason to believe that the person concerned is being extradited to Syria. That would, of course, be completely contrary to what the Turkish court has decided, namely that he should be extradited to Denmark. Having said that, it is of course a matter that should be followed closely by the relevant Danish authorities, and it is also the case that when the Nordic liaison officer received the letters, he immediately followed up with the Turkish authorities. On the same day, representations were made to the prison, to the Turkish Ministry of Justice and to the court which issued the extradition order to Denmark in order to clarify where the alleged perpetrator might have moved to. Those inquiries have since been followed up in writing to the Turkish Ministry of Justice, as did PET during September, which means that from the very beginning of this whole case the Danish authorities have reacted, and however you may turn it over and turn it, it is Turkey that still has to give us answers in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131434	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131436	Thank you for your answer. It is precisely as the Minister for Justice said, a matter which must be very dear to all of us. For what kind of situation do we have if a country we believe should have a good relationship with suddenly lets a possible assassin, whom we would like to have extradited, disappear into thin air, and then we are left with unfinished business and a trial, probably on Danish soil, which cannot be carried out because this possible perpetrator is gone. It is not sustainable, and it can be said that if anyone thinks that there is a good relationship with Turkey after a case like this, I am probably one of those who would say that there is not. Because we cannot have a good relationship with a country that lets something like this pass and now, I understand, three general inquiries have not yet given an answer to Denmark on what has actually happened to the man and what the whole background is. That is the situation now. If I have then chosen to ask the Minister's position on this at Question Time, it is after all on the basis of the open consultation in the Committee on Legal Affairs last week, when the information confirmed by the timeline that has come, on what has happened when. We are interested in whether Denmark will then know that Turkey has been making mistakes and has not responded to any mistakes, whether we have been too backward in relation to the pressure that has to be put on such a case. According to the information available, it was evident that the status of this person was already announced from the prison in Turkey on 28 August. In fact, it was thought that he was of Syrian descent and that, as I interpret what is said here, he should be handed over to his country at that time, and that is supposed to be Syria. So my question to the Minister for Justice is: is this something that the Danish authorities have been aware of has verified, that is to say, that, in the opinion of the Turkish authorities, he was apparently Syrian and that, according to the information available, he was apparently to be extradited to Syria? This is quite new information compared to what we have been told in the Folketing so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131657	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131658	Well, the man is a Danish citizen. It's a strange case. It's a strange letter. The man is a Danish citizen or Denmark would not be involved in the matter. He is a suspected perpetrator on Danish soil, and the Danish authorities have asked that he be extradited to Denmark for Danish prosecution, because he is a Danish citizen, and that is what applies in the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131729	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131731	I do not think I fully received the answer to the question I asked. So, does the Minister of Justice believe that, based on what came from the Turkish prison on 28 August, it can be interpreted that the Turks believe that he comes from Syria and that, as stated on page 7 of this timeline, he has been extradited to the security authorities in Turkey in order to be extradited to his country? Does the Minister of Justice believe that what is meant here is Syria? Did they try it out? I guess it can't be that hard to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131806	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131807	I cannot explain what some in Turkey might think. What I can explain is what is at the root of the extradition case itself. It is that it is a Danish citizen. This is clear from the material, and it should be borne in mind that the Turkish authorities have already indicated that they could be extradited to Denmark, and that is, in fact, what is fundamental about this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131830	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131831	When I ask about it, it is again to test whether we in Denmark are doing what we have to do. In that timeline, the Ministry of Justice does not receive until 15 October via the Nordic liaison officer a scanned version of this refusal and the letter from the Maltepe prison and an unofficial translation thereof. What I would like to know is that the Minister of Justice could not reply to during the consultation last week, which is why it might be appropriate to know now: What has happened on the basis of the information handed down on 29 August that the person is being extradited to Syria until 15 October 2014? Well, has it been received at the Justice Department on August 29th? Has anything been done about the fact that Turkey apparently believes that he should be extradited to Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131930	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119131930-2	I do not think the questioner is right to say that it is expressed in the way the author is saying here, namely that Turkey has said that he should be extradited to Syria. At least I haven't seen that material. What I know is that we are dealing with a suspected perpetrator for an assassination in Denmark. It is a Danish citizen and he has been requested to be extradited to Denmark. This has been an ordinary extradition case, which the Danish authorities have assessed has worked, I would not say by the book, but at least in an ordinary way. Then something happens suddenly in the case; something happens about the perpetrator in question so that he is not extradited to Denmark. We will send a delegation and we will confirm that they are no longer in prison. However, we are still waiting for the basic answers from Turkey on this matter. The Danish liaison officer responds to the letter from the Turkish prison, and I understand that this is the usual practice that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132038	Thank you, and we shall turn to the next question, which has also been asked by Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132047	I was just beginning to think that there was more to the previous question, but then there was no speaking time at least. The question is this: What is the Minister's position on the article in the Short Avis • Immigrant children down to seven years participate in harassment of neighbors to the ghetto • the authorities do nothing • on 13 November 2014, and what will the Minister do to restore order in the area so that ordinary people dare move in the area, rescue vehicles can drive without police escorts and construction workers can do their job?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132128	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132129	But my position is basically that if what is stated in the article in question is correct, then we are dealing with a very, very unfortunate situation. If it is true that in the residential area in question there are children as young as seven years of age who are harassing both other children and in general, then this is an unsustainable situation for a local community, for everyone must be able to move freely in Denmark. I would also like to say that the Egedalsvænge area in Kokkedal is an area with significant challenges. I assume, of course, that both the social authorities and the police are fully aware of this. I also think it is important to hold on to the fact that if we are dealing with children down to seven years of age who have so much difficulty in finding out what is right and wrong, right and wrong, black and white and on which side of the law one should be, then we are dealing with some very, very serious and major social problems. For it is my clear conviction that there are no children of 7-8 years of age who fully understand and can accommodate the scope and assess the consequences of the actions they may initiate, of the nature described in the article. That is why, of course, the necessary social effort should be set in motion, because we have here a situation where the story is about believing children of such a young age that it is certainly something quite massive that needs to be put in place so that those children can live a childhood that is more comparable to that of most others in this country where they are playing, doing well and developing instead of, as seems to be happening, being on the wrong road.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132311	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132312	Well, thank you for the answers. I think some real things are being said by the Minister for Justice here about what should happen and what can be done. But, unfortunately, these are the living conditions that many Danes are living in close proximity to these ghettos. Egedalsvænge is just one of several. There's Vollsmose, Tingbjerg we've had a debate this week about Tingbjerg. We also have other places in the country where ordinary law and order and security seem to be completely wrong for residents. As I read, which has been there both in the Short Avis, but also in other media about the situation at Egedalsvænge, it is a whole series of examples of trouble, violence, vandalism and harassment that are taking place in this area. And that's not even everything the papers write or anything that's being reported to the police. It is really sad, really sad, to experience the area around Kokkedal in this way, and it is untenable, I think, that the insecurity is still present, despite the fact that we in Parliament have discussed it time and again. That is why I am calling for answers to what the Minister will do in concrete terms to reassure the residents of the area and the other areas of the country where there are similar conditions. I broke up to see what the problem really is... whether it's a unique case or it's general. And so it is, with numerous episodes around Kokkedal Station, Nivå and Egedalsvænge, where there are major, major problems. That is also something the police are aware of. One of the things that residents experience as a problem is that even though North Zealand Police has set up a unit with 20 men called the Unit for Safe Housing, and has given the telephone number to the residents, there is voicemail when it is 4:00 p.m. and then there is not the same way there is a vigilance as there should be in the hours when this trouble really goes off. For it is often after dark that it is just going loose and insecurity is spreading. So I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice whether we can say more specifically what is happening, because it must be an important part of the task of the Minister for Justice to ensure security.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132536	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132537	Well, security is absolutely crucial, and it is not least where we live and live, where we live, where we live, where our everyday lives, where our children are going to play and where they are going. It should be safe everywhere in Denmark, and we should not have residential areas where you do not dare to go out after dark or else you are insecure about your own walk around the street. But I also have to say that this is, as it were, an ordinary task for the social authorities in cooperation with housing companies, in SSP cooperation, and what else you might have from local fora. It is not a new issue that there may be young people who cause trouble in an area, unfortunately. We also know that this is something that can be dealt with if the right approach is taken, and I assume that both the social authorities and the police are fully aware of this as far as the concrete housing example is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132626	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132627	Well, I would like the Minister to say in more concrete terms what is happening. Now residents are saying that there is a problem with the fact that you cannot get through to the group that was supposed to help them because after 4 p.m. there is voicemail on. I hardly need to read out all these incidents, but in February there was a group of young people throwing stones at drivers in the area; in June there were again stone throws and violently harassing moped riders; in September stones were thrown at the youth club out there in Egedalsvænge, which is actually an offer to some of those who need the help that the Minister also mentions. So all in all, I am simply asking for answers to: what does the Minister do? What's the government doing? Because it's over a long time that it's been insecure to live there. So is there something concrete, or is it the most talk?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132724	But the concrete thing is that the responsible authorities must ensure that things work properly in that residential area. There are some parents who have to raise their children, there are some adults who have to take responsibility for the situation. That is, of course, the way we can deal with specific social problems in concrete terms, because if there are children down to seven years of age who, without parents' supervision, are running around causing trouble, then it is a parental responsibility. And I would also very much like to obtain information on what the police are doing in concrete terms. It is clear that in an area where there is unrest, the police must, of course, be present, as is the case here in Tingbjerg. But that does not change the basic premise that if we are dealing with minors, very young children, it is the parents' responsibility to make sure that they are at home and deal with something that is good and healthy for 7-8-year-olds, instead of running around the streets. After all, it is also a social task for the authorities to ensure that, if there are families that cannot function at all, concrete action is taken in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132823	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132824	Well, thank you if it was a promise from the Minister to dig deeper into it and obtain the necessary information from the police, because this is basically a huge challenge for the residents of the area. There is no doubt about that. And when the Minister says that there are some parents who have to learn how to raise their children, that is true, but the situation is just that some families do not and obviously cannot. It is not the whole of Egedalsvænge that we are talking about here; it is not all the parents there who are the problem, it is some very specific families who are causing the trouble. Finally, I would like to hear something concrete from the Minister, from the government, about what is going to happen to help all the law-abiding who are the large group in Egedalsvænge.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132915	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119132915-2	I think that the final nuance is quite right, that the vast majority of residents, including in vulnerable residential areas, would prefer to live their normal lives first and foremost, be safe, have a good everyday life. Often it is a few children or young people who, with their behavior and behavior, can destroy quite a lot for many. The police can do something, SSP cooperation can do something, social authorities can do something, but it is the parents' responsibility. If you are in a situation in a residential area where there are parents who do not have that task, then it is a matter for the social authorities, because it goes without saying that if parents do not have the parental capacity, even in situations such as those which may be described here, where children run around without supervision and can do things that 7-8-year-olds should not be near at all, then this is a matter for the social authorities first and foremost, and of course I assume that everyone takes very, very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133014	The last question to the Minister for Justice has been sent over by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133023	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Trade and Development that there is an expectation that the adjustments proposed by the government will lead to Denmark receiving fewer asylum seekers in 2015? It is therefore adjustments to the legislation on foreigners that are referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133044	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133045	So, first of all, it is very, very difficult to predict what is going to happen in the area of refugees in terms of experience. This applies to the rest of 2014, and this applies, of course, in particular to 2015. If you look at the year we are in right now, you can see that there has been one development during the first months of the year, and then there is a sharp increase over the summer. Now we have the October figures, and according to them there is a slowdown, actually a rather large fall; when we received some 3 000 asylum seekers in September, we are down below 2 000 in October. No matter how many times and from which angles you ask the question, no one can explain exactly why it is so. Several components have been given in the explanation for this. This may be due to the coming of the autumn; we know that some of the countries bordering Syria have begun to close some of the border crossings; the asylum restrictions announced in Denmark can play a role. No one knows it completely. All we know is that a great many things are involved when refugees flee, and when people smugglers and others choose the paths they have to take. As regards 2015, a forecast has been drawn up and I have to stress that this is a forecast, because no one, including the officials of the Ministry of Justice, can know how the situation in the Middle East is developing, how large flows of refugees are going to come and how many of the refugees are going to come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133223	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133224	Thank you to the Minister for an interesting answer. I ask, of course, because the Minister for Trade and Development has clearly stated that the government's proposals for adjustments to the immigration legislation will have an impact on the number of asylum seekers. And I suppose that is why we have not achieved all the savings needed in the field of aid, in other words because the government expects it. I understand from the Minister for Justice's answer here that the Minister for Justice cannot say anything about that, and that is of course interesting. Let's leave it at that. I ask because we are some who believe that the government's relaxation of the alien law, which gradually reaches plus 30, has had an impact on the influx of asylum to Denmark. Then you can always discuss how big it is, but it has had an impact. And, so far, 12,877 asylum seekers have arrived from January to October, and if we are going to go up to the 20,000, which is the figure that the government started to tour a few months ago, then there will have to be over 3,500 asylum seekers a month in November and December. After all, that is a higher number than that which has come in a single month for probably the last 20 years. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether the Minister considers it likely that the government's estimate of the 20,000 this year will hold. And I understand it's only a prognosis, but there's some evidence that the forecast of the 20,000 doesn't hold up. I also ask because I do not want us to be in the position of the Minister to stand up and say that far fewer asylum seekers are now coming because the government has tightened when the truth is that the forecast at first was wrong. And it can be said that it is doubtful whether the 20 000 with what we know at the moment, when the government's austerity has not therefore entered into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133423	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133424	With all due respect, I would like to say that the questioner makes it sound as if it is a target figure we have set out, that is to say that we want why on earth should we work with it in this way? It's a prognosis, that's all. It's a tool. It is an expected access and approach of asylum seekers from the surrounding world to Denmark. It's nothing but that. It is not a hook that can be hung up on, it is not a target number; it is not a competition to reach it. If the developments we have seen in October reflect a new trend, I do not believe that we will be able to reach 20,000 asylum seekers for Denmark either. Is it positive or negative? I do not think it is either, because a forecasting tool is nothing more than what it is, namely a tool that should try to foresee how developments can be. I also hope that the questioner is aware that in my answers to why things are evolving as they are, I am quite nuanced, not very definitive, not very alleged, but I say very frankly and calmly that I think it is a component of several different things, including weather conditions in the Mediterranean. Some people have talked about a train strike in Germany and announced tightenings in Denmark. And there are certainly other elements as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133539	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133540	Should I understand the Minister's reply that the Minister does not think it is likely that the estimate of 20 000 will last this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133550	But there's never been a target number of 20,000. You can't talk about an estimate, it's a prognosis. It is, and has always been, subject to a great deal of uncertainty. It has been stressed over and over again on my part. No one can predict how the flows of refugees change. What we know is that we have the largest flows of refugees since the period just after the Second World War. The neighbouring regions assume the greater part of the responsibility, but Europe also receives many more refugees than we have been used to for a period of time. We saw a very large increase in the number of asylum seekers over the summer. It's been down in October. Is this a new trend? It's too soon to say. If there is a new trend, I do not think we will be able to reach 20,000 asylum seekers in Denmark. But that doesn't change the fact that the forecast for 2014 is up to 20,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133643	Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133644	Thank you. I am asking the Minister because I think I heard the Minister say on TV 2 News and it may be that I have heard the wrong words, and it was not today, but one of the previous days, that you are now seeing a fall and that this may be due to the austerity that the government is putting in place. I would just like to say that I do not think there is any connection between the two. It should not be the case that the government has set, not a target figure, but an overly optimistic view in order to draw a rosy picture of the government's policy working. Because government policy doesn't. The government, if it wanted to limit the number of asylum seekers seeking to Denmark, should roll back some of the relaxations it has made of the legislation. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice, because the conditions for recognised asylum seekers have been improved recently, by giving them the full right to earn a national pension, whether the Minister does not believe, when the Minister now believes in asylum shopping and other things, that it could actually be in danger of attracting even more asylum seekers to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133749	In the question put by the questioner, there is, of course, a premise that forecasts prepared by the Ministry of Justice have been made for political reasons, and they are not. I never get involved in professional judgment. I don't make professional judgements. I did not do that as Minister of Employment, and I do not do that as Minister of Justice. It's a tool, nothing more than that. That is not true when the questioner says that I should have said on TV 2 News that there is a direct link between the announced bill from the government and it has not actually even been adopted by the Danish Parliament yet and then the change we have seen in October. What I have said on several occasions is that the change, I think, consists of several different components. I do not know the exact context, nor does the questioner, nor does any human being in the world. Yes, I think it is a combination of some changes in the neighbourhood, in relation to how many fleeing Syria, and a fall, as we also see in some neighbouring countries, in the arrival of Syrian asylum seekers and in the autumn of the Mediterranean, can also be significant. It may also be that announced restrictions on asylum reach someone's ears when you choose which country you are fleeing to. But the exact composition does not know. With regard to the changes in the area of pensions, I believe that there are many factors here too in relation to why people choose Denmark or another country to flee to. Whether it is the national pension that is the most important, I will allow myself to doubt, but that can be included, I will not reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133923	Thank you to the Minister of Justice and to the authors. Then we go to the Minister of Education, who has been sent five questions, and the first is from Mr. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133940	Thank you, President. Does the number of pupils who cannot continue their education because they cannot find an internship give cause for concern to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133950	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119133952	I would like to thank you for the question, because this is an opportunity to put the figures in public a little in perspective. At the moment it is about 12,000 pupils who do not have an internship in a company, but fortunately it is the case that very many of them, about half of them, have a school internship, that is to say they are in the process of being able to complete their training to become fully skilled. We also know that the vast majority of people who start school practice end up in an internship in a company because companies want them with the experience of school practice. Then there are 4,500 young people who are not in an internship, but out of them it is in fact only 500 who have completed a basic course in which they cannot continue in school practice. So we have to note that the vast majority could actually continue in school practice, but then for various reasons they choose not to do so. But I would like the figure of 500 to be there, i.e. the number actually missing an internship because they have applied for an education where there is no school practice. This shows that there are, in fact, many opportunities for a young person to complete his or her vocational training, even if there are not enough places for practical training in firms.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134100	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134101	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. Our vocational training is based on a foundation called alternance training, which means practical learning in a company and then theory on a school bench, and we have a long tradition of this in Denmark. And if you can't get a training agreement, most people can complete their education through a school practice. In my view, however, the school approach is gradually challenging the whole principle of alternance training, because if we continue to want vocational training as alternance training, then the school approach must not be more than a complement, and I can of course hear that the Minister, like the Left, is very concerned that we cannot provide all the training places that are needed. Does the Minister and thus the government believe that it is high on the agenda that we will get the necessary number of internships? Could the Minister give a brief account of the initiatives contained in the recently concluded Finance Act, which help to give young Danes the opportunity to get a real practical placement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134208	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134210	We in the government are deeply concerned that we are getting far more young people to want to look for vocational training, to carry out vocational training, including the possibility of carrying it out by internship, much like in a company, but if you cannot do so, because it is very short-term whether there are enough work placements in companies, then through the internships where you can get a combination of both work experience and school practice. This is something we have a broad agreement on, among other things. with the Left, and that is because all the parties and I have to say that it is all the parties that are deeply concerned that we are motivating far more young people to opt for vocational training, including the possibility of obtaining an internship. Therefore, there are a number of initiatives that are reflected, primarily in the agreements we have made, both initially, when we made the big internship agreement back in 2012, and now with the very large vocational training reform, where funds have been set aside for the internship-seeking work, to name one among many initiatives. That's about 100 million. kr., we have set aside there as part of a joint agreement between the government and the parties to the agreement, and with the implementation of the growth package 95 million have also been set aside. kr. for the internship-seeking job. So there are a number of initiatives that we have taken together, not least in implementing the great reform of vocational training that we have undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134319	Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134320	Thank you. Yes, I'm sorry, Minister, it was probably a bit of a trap, and I quite agree with the Minister that there is no thought of internships in the Finance Act 2015. It is true that we have a number of agreements, including the whole growth package, which help to secure some sub-agreements, but in the Finance Act agreement that you have just sat and agreed with Enhedslisten and SF, there is not a single initiative that can be internship-creating. After all, we in the Left had proposed extending the housing job scheme, which ensured a large number of internships, so that we could get everyone involved and ensure that they could complete their training in a company so that they might have to pass it much less with a school internship. The think tank DEA has just focused on the internship challenge, and a large survey has been carried out among many companies that actually wanted to hire more students. But you miss qualified students, you think that personal skills are not good enough. You meet, for example. in the business world many students who do not meet on time, who have a great deal of Monday-Friday disease, and who are not reminded of completing the training they have now started. How does the Minister think that we can focus more on that aspect of young people's competences, so that once again we ensure that companies are not frightened, but they are willing to enter into internship agreements with young people who meet on time and who are professionally reminded to complete the training?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134458	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134459	I would just like to say quite briefly that the question put by the Left is very well aware that when we conclude broad agreements, including on the reform of vocational training and the economy, which has also been set aside jointly, this will be translated into the annual financial laws. So it is part of the Finance Act, and I would like to make a small bet with Peter Juel Jensen anyway, i.e. whether the Left will not also vote in favour of the agreements we have made together and which actually promise, among other things. the internship-seeking effort. In relation to the DEA study, it is quite true that it means a lot to employers that it is skilled young, motivated apprentices, pupils who come and ask if there is an internship for them. This is among other things. That is why we have made the vocational training reform with access requirements, so that it is for young people who can and will do what they need, with a clear high-level track, and therefore also with young people who can do what they need when they go out and seek an internship, which is the heart of our vocational training system, which is alternance training with school and internship.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134554	We now have a fellow questioner, and that is Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134600	Hi. Thank you for your reply. Peter Juel Jensen. What concerns me very much is the added value of getting into a real practical spot. There is no doubt that employers subsequently welcome the skilled workers who have the competence to have worked in a real business environment and that they are used to working with the workers and know how a workflow is out there in reality. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, as she has said, the Minister really equates school practice with having a real internship, i.e. whether it is equally good from the government's point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134638	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134639	Now it is the case that we have jointly raised the quality of school practice with the new internships. This is what the internships, among other things. can, is to provide some better opportunities for a package of different kinds of internships. This means that companies can be small companies or some companies that have very specialized production yet can offer a partial agreement, and that you can then create a single package where you can also take some of the internship at the internship centre if it is that the package of companies does not meet the training requirements adequately. And I really think that the best answer to what Mrs Tina Nedergaard is asking, namely whether it is equally good, is that in virtually every case companies end up with a training agreement, including with pupils coming from school practice. There are virtually no pupils, quite a few percent who only get school practice. The vast majority get company practice; it may be that they start school practice, but they end up with company practice. And it's good that we have that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134738	Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134739	Absolutely. When there are not enough internships, it is very positive that the government, together with the Left and other parties, has made an agreement that ensures that as many young people as possible have an opportunity to complete their training. But the Minister is also concerned about the fact that more people enter vocational education and training, and so there is a question that I have to answer as a co-questioner: does the Minister believe that it is more committed to more skilled young people opting for vocational training, that their immediate opportunity is primarily school practice than if the government had succeeded in creating more internships in both the public and private sectors?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134813	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134815	I just want to remind you quietly of something, because I think the common message from all of us is important. Virtually all the parties are behind the initiatives that exist. This applies to both vocational training reform, internship agreement and so on. I have the latest figures: 73,500 students have a training agreement with companies. I think we should keep that in mind. Then it is true that some people have not been able to get an internship. Fortunately, the vast majority of those who cannot get an internship are on training courses where they can continue in the internship centre with an internship package, and we can see that the vast majority with it in hand actually get an internship in a company. We can only see over the years that when growth is really in progress, there will be an extraordinary number of internships for young people in companies. Fortunately, when growth is not as strong as it is, we have the internships, which provide that buffer and flexibility so that they can get training anyway, so that young people are there when they are needed in companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134912	Thanks to the co-author. And then, sir... Peter Juel Jensen, who questions one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119134920	Thank you. As an educational rapporteur for his party, there are many roles to be played. The most important role, of course, is to present its party's own response to the challenges that lie ahead. Another important role is to raise a minister, and that is where I would say that I have now come to a good end. I think I have raised a new minister well and thoroughly. For the answers that have just been given to Mrs Tina Nedergaard are answers given by previous blue ministers when the minister was rapporteur and when the minister was in favour of there being an internship guarantee. All the answers the Minister has just given to Mrs Tina Nedergaard are some which the Minister will actually be able to retrieve from previous ministers who answered the same question when the Minister was rapporteur and thundered for an internship guarantee. It is also mentioned in the Fair Solution, i.e. the whole programme on which the Minister went to the polls. Can the Minister not briefly explain to me what has happened in the minister's world since the Minister has so far turned around? What happened to all the old sales speeches? What have they become of all the arguments after the Minister has become minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135034	The former ministers cannot defend themselves, but I give the floor to the current minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135038	After all, I think that what is good is that there has been a constant common focus on how we could ensure that, when young people were considering vocational training, they could also see that there was a very good probability that they could carry it out. And that is why we have actually strengthened the training guarantee. Among other things, we did. with the big internship agreement back in 2012, and we have done so further with the vocational training reform. This means, among other things, that right now we are in the process of doing so, as the questioner knows, because the questioner has been given the material on the basis of the recommendation of the Council for Basic Vocational Training to expand the number of school placement opportunities for a number of courses. As part of the agreement, we also move from a negative list to a positive list. We are starting to make all the better opportunities visible, so that when you choose an education, you can also complete it if not with an internship, then with a school practice. So what we have done together, and I think that is actually the important message, is that we have strengthened the education guarantee. This was a very important focus of the vocational training reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135133	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. Mrs Tina Nedergaard has the next question for the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135142	Thank you. I should like to ask the Minister whether the Minister and the Government have completely abandoned the possibility of creating more internships for pupils in vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135154	I think it is obvious already in the first round of questions-answers that, of course, the government does not. I would like to say again here that I so much appreciate the fact that, over all the years, virtually all the parties have made a great deal of effort to come up with common solutions in the field of vocational training. That is why the Left and the Socialists are part of everything that has been done by agreements in this area. This is, of course, the prerequisite for us actually to have a workable alternance training system. As politicians, we need to ensure that there is as much quality as possible in school practice. We have done this with the internships, which are part of our common agreements and then we have to do it together with the social partners. This is, of course, the second important part of it: how the labour market can enter and help to motivate the creation of more internships. That is why I am also extremely pleased that both the LO and the DA have not only backed up but have also been behind recommendations on a number of the things we have been able to agree on together, because it has therefore strengthened the training guarantee, which is essential for young people to take the leap and choose a vocational training course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135252	Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135252-2	Thank you. With the Left's Finance Bill, we propose to allocate additional funds to create internships, so there we go before the government, just as we did when we ourselves were in government and actually went ahead with the Socialists. We introduced an internship grant of DKK 70,000. per That is something that the Social Democrats helped to support. I should like to ask the Minister whether the Government intends to reinstate such an internship grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135324	I would like to apologise for the question put by the questioner, since she was not part of the negotiating circle of the Left, when we agreed both, we might say, the big placement agreement and the subsequent vocational training reform. Because there was, in fact, agreement on that, among other things. On the recommendation of the social partners and therefore also of employers, i.e. Danish Employers' Association to phase out the bonus scheme that was introduced. The bonus scheme was good at the time it was introduced, but one could see that the effect that it created more internships simply did not happen. That is why it was in broad agreement, among other things. on the recommendation of the social partners that the bonus scheme be phased out. If it were to be reinstated, it would cost 2 billion. kr., which was to be financed by the AUB, i.e. I am not sure that employers would think it was a very good idea. At any rate, I know that the Left has been very concerned that the AUB should not rise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135414	Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135415	Now I had the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister answer questions in the Chamber yesterday and discovered that she too is very interested in what the Left thinks about things. I already know what the Minister is saying. In fact, I asked the Minister what is the government's intention in this area. What I note is that in the financial agreement that has just been concluded, some money could be found around for various initiatives to strengthen some areas. By the way, this is something you do for money that you've been out borrowing, but peace be with it. This is another discussion. My question is: why has the government not decided to go in and support the area so that more young people can get into a real internship? That is, after all, the position of the government that I am asking, and not that of the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135454	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135456	As part of the reform of vocational training, which the Left also supports, 100 million have been set aside. kr. for e.g. the internship-seeking work, and in addition 95 million have been allocated. kr. as part of the growth package, which is for initiatives in addition to internship-seeking work, so that small businesses too do not have the trouble and difficulty of creating additional internships. So money has been set aside, which is also reflected in the draft Finance Act, which we will then have to discuss and adopt here before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135525	Then there is a co-questioner, Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135531	I have to say that, when I listen to the Minister today, I think that it is a very different person than the person I listened to before the parliamentary elections and before the Minister became minister. At that time, I felt that there was a great deal of commitment to creating internships. I think we share that across the parties here in the Folketing. But today I think it is a system that speaks. I do not think we are hearing about what the Minister himself really thinks and about what he actually wants politically for, for example. to create growth in Denmark. There is no doubt that, if growth gets under way, the Minister also said a little indirectly before the end of the year, it will also mean that more internships will be created. Therefore, it may of course surprise me that when asking questions asking questions I think relevant questions about what can be done are the answer with systems, taximeters and things like that instead of saying it plainly, namely that a draft Finance Act has been put on the table, where there are no growth initiatives, where there are therefore no private jobs and therefore not very likely to be created particularly many work placements.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135646	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135648	Well, I only say that I believe that those who listen to this have not been able to hear what Mrs Inger Løjberg has been able to hear. I would therefore like to say that the government is extremely concerned that we have broad political agreements that significantly improve the quality of vocational training. We have succeeded in this together. This means that there will be much more young people who can and will do what they need to do, so that it is also attractive for companies to hire them as apprentices or pupils. In addition, we have taken a number of initiatives to enable young people to finish, either through strengthened internship placement or through the internship centres, which allow for internship placement packages, so that smaller companies and specialised companies can also offer an internship placement, and so that young people can finish their remaining experience through the internship centres. These are incredibly important initiatives to strengthen the training guarantee so that young people both start and complete the training. I allowed myself, and I regret that, but I mean it from the heart, to be kind because I think it is crucial that we have broad agreements on this. And all I have said is something we have done together with the Left, and I would really like to thank the Left for that, because that is what it is necessary for us to actually have more and many more young people both starting and carrying out vocational training, including internship.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135802	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135803	Yeah, but listen to me, Minister, that's not what I'm questioning at all. I challenge the fact that a financial law has been put on the table, for example. has removed the craftsman's allowance, which, according to Danish Industry, gave 5,000 jobs, of which 400 internships. That's what it takes in a time like this. In other words, I fully recognise that there are broad agreements in this area, and I also said that I believe that we in the Danish Parliament broadly agree that creating internships is a necessity and that it is of course both necessary for growth in Denmark, for the future in Denmark and for the level of education in Denmark. What I challenge is that you do nothing about it when you actually have the chance through a financial law. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135848	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135850	It is a bit strange that what Mrs Inger Løjberg is using as an example is the craftsman's allowance, because it is about something quite different. After all, it is a political discussion that has taken place whether or not the craftsman's allowance should be counted. What is the important discussion is the small part that was in what Mrs Inger Nøjberg said, namely that it allows for more apprentices to be employed as well. That discussion is indeed the very interesting and important one. It is, in fact, a discussion with regard to social clauses. It is to make sure that you, among other things. when the public sector is a provider of large tasks, then also make sure that there are some training agreements so that more apprentices are involved. This is something that the government has been incredibly concerned with and, fortunately, the possibility of applying social clauses has been strengthened. We can see that more and more people are also using them in relation to the massive investment that the government has made here over the years that the government has been there to boost growth. That is the interesting discussion. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Left has glittered by its absence and has not backed the initiatives in relation to social clauses.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135947	Then Mrs Tina Nedergaard has the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119135950	Thank you. What we can see, at least with the financial agreement concluded, is that the red block • the government and its support parties, the Enhedslisten and the SF• do not intend to take initiatives in the field of financial law, which is, after all, at the heart of political work, to ensure that more private jobs are created and therefore room and space are created for more apprentices in private companies. There it is that when the government makes more school placements, which it is so enthusiastic about, instead of real internships, it creates growth in the system. They create growth in schools, whereas with real placements they ensure growth in the private sector, because they in fact bill the work done by the apprentices, plus the fact that the individual learner and apprentice will also have better opportunities for earnings, firstly, secondly, professional development and thirdly, social competences. It is therefore a pity that the government has sat down on a chair called: we have done what we could, and we cannot do any more, and we will not even ask Enhedslisten and SF to support us in taking further initiatives when making a Finance Act. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140057	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140059	I have a great deal of respect for the rapporteur's insight into financial laws, among others. because the rapporteur has been the rapporteur for the budget, and that is why the rapporteur knows very well that when agreements are made, they exceed a number of years. Very large agreements have been made on investment in infrastructure, energy renovations, housing renovations, super hospitals, etc., and all the investments offer opportunities; in addition to providing growth in those areas and providing jobs in those areas, it provides more training places in private companies that offer the tasks. Then it is simply nonsense that it should be a budget law that has been cleared of growth initiatives. There are plenty of growth initiatives, including concrete ones, and I would like to sign them again, because it is in cooperation with the Left, for example, for how to strengthen them. the internship seeker's job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140151	Thanks to both the questioner and the co-author. The next question is also to the Minister for Education, asked by Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140201	Thank you. The question is: Is the Minister satisfied with the government's efforts to secure internships for young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140210	One might be tempted to wonder whether the Left, with all these issues that are almost identical, is not sure that the Minister fully understands the question. I am simply saying this because I regret that I have to repeat, since these are the same questions I have been given, namely that we are deeply concerned about the provision of places for young people. After all, it is necessary for us to have a growth education system that we should also be in practice. If you cannot find a place in a company, then you have to have good opportunities for practically all degree programmes to complete it through school practice at an internship centre, and by far the majority continue from school practice in an internship afterwards. So we are deeply concerned about it, and that is what I have also replied to the other three Left rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140253	Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140254	Thank you, Minister. However, the reason we ask is that we just do not see the road ahead of us, which is set out as the one that the Minister himself talked so much about before 2011. The minister thundered that there were not enough internships. At that time, 8,000 were missing. Today we have figures that vary from 11,000 to 13,000. A lot is explained that so many solutions have been made and that we have made them together. I hear that, and I am aware that we are going with where a tiny mystery can help, but where is the satisfaction, where is the pride, when the figure has grown since 2011, minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140343	I really think it is a pity that those parties that are behind a really good and ambitious vocational training reform and internship agreement with broad support from the social partners are now choosing to use a Question Time to spread a story that there are not enough internships. Right now, and I would like to mention the figure again, because I actually think it is important to tell the young people and the parents there are 73,500 with a training agreement that is in practice. Right now, there are 6,000 people who are doing a school internship. There are 4,500 who then have to be internship, but of them the 4,000 can choose to start school practice. In other words, we are actually faced with 500 young people who have completed a basic course where they cannot move forward, either with an internship in a company or with a school practice. That is the challenge, and that is because we have jointly strengthened the education guarantee, and thank you for that. That is the message we have to say, because it is essential for more young people to choose to seek vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140438	Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140440	But Minister, the Left makes a proposal to show the way, puts forward a financial bill and chooses to maintain the housing job scheme. At the same time, we know that, if nothing else, we could get away from the fact that so many people were in school practice because they could enter a real internship, especially if you went in and made partnership agreements instead of social clauses, which I can hear the Minister think should be the best way forward. When such proposals come forward, why does the Minister not say: I might not have thought of that, but we will take it and, of course, we will make partnership agreements and argue in favour of continuing the housing scheme where there will be jobs? Why does the Minister simply not accept such small roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140532	Now it can be said that it is a little difficult to say yes to small roads when the Left is not part of the Financial Law Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140541	Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140542	It's the government's own choice. Well, the phones have been open all the way through. You could just summon us. We're so ready. We have shown before that we can be ready in no time, and we can also find good solutions with the government. It's been seen before, so it's not an answer at all. Why does the Minister not say to the conciliation circle what the negotiating table will be, that is to say: let us meet, let us make partnership agreements, let the Left make their bid so that we can continue with the housing job scheme in which there will be jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140616	For the sake of good order, it must be said that the housing job scheme was really, really expensive. But it was so Left's choice, and fair enough with it. The Left was not part of the Financial Law Agreement and therefore that arrangement has not been included. But that does not change the fact that we have a common agreement in the sector of vocational training, where we are following up. In addition to the fact that we have set aside concrete money for work followed up in practice, so that small businesses can better set up internships, we have an ongoing discussion with the social partners, which, after all, supports all these initiatives, and it is actually a community between the parties to the agreement and the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140653	Thank you to Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. Then we go to Mrs Inger Løjberg, who has another question for the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140702	Does the Minister consider that there are enough work placements in the companies and what initiatives does the Minister intend to take to obtain further places?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140711	After all, I am pleased that Mrs Inger Løjberg is smiling while she is asking the question, because now almost the same question has been asked before, but we are just going to take it again. I wish there were enough practical places for everyone in the company, but we know something, because that is part of the whole system. When we have alternance training, where we have to be both at school and into businesses, there are fewer or more apprenticeships in companies, depending on the economic situation. Because it's hard. If you do not have orders in the order book, it is difficult to create as many internships as if there is really going under the boilers. That is why there is consensus and broad political agreement between the social partners that, if we cannot have a company practice, we must do everything we can to stimulate more people. Fortunately, you have the opportunity to get better quality through the internships; you have a package of internships and stays in several companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140809	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119140810	If the Minister knew me a little better, the Minister would also know that I often smile, including in debates. But having said that, there is not really much to smile about, and certainly not at all, if you are young and cannot get an internship. I remember what it was like in our reign. I can well remember the very great commitment of the current minister, but as many others showed, to make the government then aware of the lack of internships. And you had to understand that if only the color changed in the Prime Minister's Office, all these problems were solved, and then there were internships for everyone, and then it should probably just go out there. But here too it has to be said that reality has just turned out to be someone else. That is why I think it is a pity that the government has put forward a financial regulation which does not contain growth initiatives. Because I think we agreed, last time I asked questions here just a few minutes ago, that the fact that there is growth in society, that there is growth in the private sector also means that not only the desire to recruit young apprentices, but also the economic opportunities to do so, are actually present, and that the likelihood of taking apprentices is much greater. I can also remember it from my own time as Minister for Employment, namely that when things are going well, everything else is equally easier to take in an apprentice, also because many apprenticeships have been and it is very good to see that you have to be sure that there is quality in the training as well. It is not just having an apprentice, it is also the training of an apprentice, and that there is quality. And if you are afraid that there are not enough orders, you are also afraid that quality is actually not there. That is why I would just like to say once again that I think it is a pity that a financial agreement has been put forward without growth initiatives for the private sector, and I would like to refer again to the housing job scheme, which I think is missing, because according to the Danish Construction Agency I said before, I think Danish Industry, but according to the Danish Construction Agency it actually provided 400 work placements. And it was 400 internships that wanted to warm up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141030	Now I am suffering from the handicap of having been in the field of education for a long time, so I also remember how the debate was back in the 00s under the previous government in relation to the internship situation. What is crucial is the difference, but I will not use it to beat the Left on top of the head with the fact that at that time the government at that time was, to put it mildly, not very fond of school practice. That was the discussion. Should we create a system in which there were better opportunities that, if there were not enough internships in the companies, there would be better opportunities for school practice? It was not the case that you had to take the whole training through school practice, but that you could start, and then everything had to be done to get it into business practice. That is why we are all together and I would just like to acknowledge that we got away from that, because I thought it was completely out of hand that they said that the school approach was bad and that it was only good if they were given an internship. Together, we have taken care to improve the quality of school practice, and we have jointly ensured that school practice is much better able to complete, not with school practice, but in a company. In fact, I think that is what is important, namely that the school approach is the right way forward with the right quality, with the internship-seeking work, with the support of the parties, what is there. For then we can actually get far more young people to dare to choose vocational training because they will not be slowed down by the fact that they cannot be finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141146	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141147	Listen to me, Minister: hopefully there can be no more opinions that the best thing is to get into a company. It is not school practice that must be the best solution. The best solution must be to get out to a real company, get into everyday life and the jargon that is also on a construction site or where you are in an internship. That is why it is crucial to create more real internships. There are currently 4,500 students who need an internship. What's the answer to them? Yes, it is a finance law without growth initiatives in the private sector and without a housing job scheme that would provide at least about 400 of them with an internship place according to the Danish Building Agency. Frankly, I think that's a little pauvert, if I may put it a little square.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141235	I hope, after all, that Mrs Inger Løjberg is pleased that there are 73 500 young people with a training agreement with companies internship. 73,500. I think that is important to say. There are very good opportunities for finding an internship, including in a company. Then I hope that after all, Mrs Inger Løjberg is pleased that of the 4,500 who are not currently internship, only 500 of them have completed the basic course of an education where they cannot continue in the internship centre with a school internship. This means that 4 000 of the young people could do so and could thus finish their education, including with the awareness that if they start school practice, there will be a very good chance that they will end with an internship in a company. For companies will take young people who are skilled, motivated and have that knowledge with them from the internship centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141322	We have a fellow questioner, Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141327	But, Minister, that figure is falling; the number of training agreements has fallen from last year to this year. After all, there is no progression, Minister. You pride yourself on some figures and say that you were aware that in the debate we took when there was another government, it seemed to me that what was going on was too pauvert. However, the number of those who have not had an agreement that made sense has increased. And no, we still don't think school practice is the best. We continue to maintain that it would be best if we were in a real economic activity. So, Minister, it can't help if you pride yourself on having done the job, because the government doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141414	We always have a common task, not least in cooperation with the social partners, to do everything we can to ensure that more work placements are created in companies. I must also say that I think it is actually a huge step forward that we have jointly agreed that it makes no sense to start as a young person on a basic path and then not to move on from there, even if we are talking about training that we need in the future. That is what we have improved; we have significantly strengthened the training guarantee. The vast majority of courses can be continued in an internship centre, even if you do not have an internship in a company. We have made a number of initiatives, and this is also reflected in the Finance Act with 100 million. kr. for e.g. internship-seeking work and the implementation of the growth package, where we are also working to create more internships in companies, including making it easier for small businesses to create more apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141505	Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141507	My picture of a government is usually that you are the forward-looking one, that you are the policy-makers, that you are the one who comes up with solutions and then takes in those from whom you need help. Right now I hear the Minister being very backward and saying: I wait and hear what the social partners are saying and then I do what they think I should do. Because I have then experienced former ministers being an active party that simply said: we meet on Tuesday morning, I think it was, once a month to follow up on what it looks like out there, look at whether we have the opportunity to change something, and get feedback, that is, all the time, to be all the way up on the beat. I also remember that in the Socialist Group there was an opposition which simply fought a battle and continued to challenge that the Minister did not do enough, in other words in the previous government. I understand now why the powerlessness so shines out of the Minister, in other words because there are no solutions; for what the Minister is bringing is not at all solution-oriented. But it may be that we can just break the ice now, and then there will simply be the solution we need. So now I look forward to hearing the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141624	I am quite sure that if the rapporteur spoke to the social partners, the LO and the DA, they would be able to confirm that we have regular meetings, such as those we have. This has resulted in the very concrete implementation of the vocational training reform, on the one hand, the internship-seeking work and, on the other hand, the implementation of the growth package. And I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the social partners, who are so much aware that we agree politically on both an enormous increase in the quality of vocational training, a strengthening of the guarantee of training and better opportunities for school practice in areas where we know we need skilled young people in the future. So I am sure that the experience there is not that we are sitting on our hands in relation to it. I also know that the Left is involved in all these discussions because it is the implementation of a common agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141707	Thanks to both the questioner and the co-author. No, it is now Mrs Inger Løjberg who ends with one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141715	Thank you. I have to say that I think it was the system that spoke today, and not the person who was once very, very committed to everything that was about education, school internship, internship, and how to obtain apprenticeships. I thought it was a system that spoke to me today at least. And frankly, Minister, I must admit that the answer that was given when I asked what the answer really is to the 12 000 young people who are missing an internship, namely that only 500 of those who are not getting an education are simply not in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141758	Honestly, Mrs Inger Løjberg, I do not think it is actually right to share in spreading a message that we must actually have in common and in close cooperation with the social partners. With regard to the fact that young people are under the impression that they can just as well give up vocational training, because there are merely closed doors in relation to obtaining an internship, I would say that this is not in line with reality. A large number of young people are currently in an internship in a company, and the vast majority of young people in the internship queue will be able to continue with a school internship in the new internship centres with much better opportunities to subsequently get an internship in a company. Quite frankly, I do not understand the role of the Left in speaking up a figure which simply has nothing to do with reality. The important message is to say: we are a country of knowledge and production, we need much more young people who choose vocational training and there is much better opportunities for them to implement it with an internship. There are not many closed doors if you really want to pursue vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141858	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg and the co-questioner. Then the final question to the Minister for Education is put by Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141911	Thank you. Why has the Minister not eliminated the unjustified taximeter differences between the commercial gymnasiums, i.e. hhx, and general secondary schools, i.e. Stx, in connection with the Finance Act 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119141925	As the questioner from the Danish People's Party knows, we have recently had a consultation on exactly the same issue. It is true that according to the analysis previously made by the various upper secondary educations, including the difference in the tariff between stx and hhx, there are a number of differences that are agreed, namely that there is a difference in rates, because it is more expensive to run stx than hhx, because the natural sciences fill so much and the facilities for the natural sciences are more expensive. I also believe that the Danish People's Party recognises that there are some reasons why the tariffs are not the same. Then there have also been differences in agreements in the past. The agreements on training have now become the same, so we can see that there is now a difference which is an unjustified difference, and that is what we discussed at the conciliation meeting. What we have also decided to do together with the Danish People's Party as an extension of the vocational training reform is that we are now going in and doing a comprehensive tariff analysis, and here we are looking specifically at the difference between stx and hhx. And we would like to wait until that analysis is there to discuss the tariffs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142032	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142033	Thank you. Now I've been in Parliament for three years, and in all these years we've been discussing exactly this difference between hhx and stx. And at the time it was the case that the Minister almost rejected the fact that there was an unjustified difference. Now the Minister, and she has done so over the last year, admits that there are unfounded differences. The Minister has also been kind enough to inform us that it is just over 4,000 DKK. So far, so good. Now the Minister says that she will wait for the tariff analysis, and that is fair enough. Should I understand from the Minister that if that tariff analysis again shows that there are these unjustified differences, then the Minister will equalise them? Can we then expect, if the Minister is still a minister at the time, that we will have them settled in the Finance Act, so that there is equality for the two secondary schools? I would really like to know that, because we cannot live with the fact that the commercial colleges and the general colleges are not treated equally financially. They both carry out an important task in our education system. So that should be my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142154	The tariff analysis to be carried out, on which we agree, in the sector of vocational training, means that, on the basis of it, we have to find approx. 400 million kr. Annually from 2017 until financing of the vocational training reform. And that's where we're going to look at the rates for stx and hhx. That's why I'm not gonna tell you what we're gonna do. I don't think anyone's been served with that. And I also note that there are no parties, including the Danish People's Party, which have proposed to change the tariffs in this year's Finance Act, because it actually makes sense for us to look at it. After all, the latest major analysis that was made is a few years old, and that is why I think we should wait for the results before pre-discounting what we are going to do at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142232	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142234	We agree that there are unjustified differences. The Minister has also admitted this after a long time. And since we agree that there are unjustified differences, we should also be able to agree that, if the tariff analysis shows the same thing, we will have to offset them. I can say that to the Minister here and now. The Danish People's Party would like to participate in this. So I have to repeat the question: will the Minister, together with the Danish People's Party, help to balance out these unjustified differences?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142305	Well, I would say that it is a little easy for the Danish People's Party to say that it will at that time. For the Danish People's Party could have chosen to have it on its draft budget this time. The Danish People's Party did not, which is why I think we are all served by having that analysis done before we decide what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142319	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142320	Since the Danish People's Party was the basis of support for the previous government, we had the Hhx tariff raised by DKK 5,000. Since then, nothing has happened. We would very much like to help raise it again; what we are really waiting for is the Minister. So shooting it back to the Danish People's Party is too easy. We haven't been invited to the finance negotiations. We have not been included in the Finance Act, so it is far too easy. I just have to call on the Minister once again to answer whether she, together with the Danish People's Party, will help to find the money so that we can balance out the unjustified differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142403	I just find quietly that the Danish People's Party did not even include this in its own draft budget. That is something you come up with before you start a financial law process at all. But I don't think there's any reason why we shoot this thing in the face of each other. I would like to acknowledge that the previous government, with the support of the Danish People's Party at that time, on the basis of the tariff analysis that was carried out, raised the tariff. At that time, everyone agreed that the problem of unjustified differences, apart from the agreements, which were different, had been resolved. Now there are common agreements, and that gives more flexibility in terms of how to put it into practice in the individual schools. And this is when we have calculated it and see that there are some new unfounded differences. That is why I think it should wait for the tariff analysis on which we agree and then we will take a position on what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142441	Thank you both to the questioner and to the Minister. Now there are three questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, also called the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs, and the first is the question put by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142500	Thank you. What steps will the Minister take to help parents of children with autism who are now being pressured and stressed by many municipalities with sanctions and instructions if parents cannot have their children in the school offer in which they have been placed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142518	Thank you for the question. Municipalities have a clear duty to help all children in need of support, including children with autism, there are a great many opportunities, and municipalities can offer, for example. educational support at home or a contact person if they consider that exactly that will help the child. But the action taken must be aid and support for the child; it must not and cannot be used as a sanction against the child or the parents. That is unacceptable. This applies regardless of whether some bets may be given by force and without parental consent, because there are strict requirements as to when bets can be started just without consent, and that is only if it is for the child's good. Moreover, parents' instructions can only be given if it is the parents' unwillingness that is the problem. If it is inability to deal with the child's problems, the municipality should instead help the parents with it. Finally, we have a very thorough system of complaints in which the decision of the municipalities is checked by both lawyers and child experts, who are looking into whether the rules have been complied with. I must honestly admit that I cannot imagine that there are municipalities that are forced to remove children simply because parents cannot or will not send their children into a school offer in which they do not thrive if there are otherwise no problems with the child or family. And if that were the case, I have no doubt for a second that the matter will also fall into the appeal system. I think that is worth noting as well. My view is that the current system ensures both the best for the child and the legal certainty of the family, and I therefore believe that there is no basis for new measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142704	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142705	I find it deeply worrying that the Minister is saying that the Minister is always confident that the system is working. The system also fails you can just see how it is in the Danish Parliament, and also in the official work and ministries. The system is not flawless. In the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, we have received a worrying letter from which I would like to quote. It says in this letter: "Parents of children with autism experience municipal threats and weakened legal certainty. "Then they write on: "The National Association of Autisme (LA) can document that municipalities are pushing parents of children/young people with autism with sanctions and imposing forced removal in the worst case because parents cannot have their children in school. Students develop school migration and, at worst, psychiatric additional diagnosis such as anxiety and depression because they are stressed in the school provision in which they have been placed. Many of the cases should involve VISO, but the municipalities reject it. LA has several examples of a weakening of family legal certainty when parents appeal to municipal decisions. Then I find it deeply problematic when the Minister says it is the duty of the municipalities. Yes, but if the municipalities can't handle this, the minister will have to help them. So it is the Minister's duty to act when there is a worrying letter like this, which the Minister has also received. At the same time, an article has also been written about it at folkskolen.dk, where it is just described how these parental instructions are issued by letter, and then studies of parental ability are initiated. I find it problematic that the Minister does not act, but simply says that it is the responsibility of the municipalities that the Minister has confidence in the system and that everything is so good. Because it's not. We are getting these letters, and this is not just about autism; you can take the whole area of disability and look at the legal situation of parents who have disabled children.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119142915	Thank you so much. What I explained was the rules and framework for the area. I pointed out that municipalities have a duty, as I started by saying, to help children in need of support. I didn't say everything was okay. I fully agree that the systems fail. I think most systems do, and that is precisely why we have some remedies. That's one. The second is the mentioned letter from the National Association of Autism. I take that too seriously, and that is also why the Ministry actually has a meeting with the National Association. As far as I remember, it is 16 December and that is exactly where we are taking this point. We do that because, of course, we take it seriously. One cannot ignore such a letter, and that is why it is of course also being discussed. As I said, I do not remember exactly, but I think it is 16 December that we have a meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143023	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143024	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister is now having a meeting with the National Association of Autism, also so that they can hear about solutions on the part of the Minister, because these are solutions that need to be found in situations where a child is in great difficulty because of autism. Then it is not parents' instructions or young orders or threats of forced removal that help in such cases. Families must have all the help and support and guidance they can get from the local authorities. So I look forward also to talking to the National Association of Autism about what they have got out of the meeting with the Minister, and whether the Minister is also acting on the basis of what he has said, and whether he might also write a letter to the municipalities that this and the procedure are not okay. Then we have to see if the municipalities are listening to the minister. I don't know if the minister has any experience of whether they do. But we certainly expect some action to be taken by the minister too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143127	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143129	In fact, I have experience of the municipalities listening, and I think that is very good and also pleasing. There is no doubt about that. In fact, we do not disagree on the premise. I am absolutely sure that we are on exactly the same side when it comes to wanting to take care of the children we are discussing here at the moment, in other words children with autism, and their families too, who are in a vulnerable position. There we are in no way in opposition to each other. And if there are any shortcomings, it is clear, as I also say, that my ministry is going to meet with the National Association of Autism. That's why we're also putting this letter on as a point, so we can discuss it and also hear it from the National Association itself. Mrs Karina Adsbøl is also welcome, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl usually does, to grab me and have a chat over a cup of coffee and hear what has happened at that meeting. The questioner is always welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143228	Thank you. I welcome that. It's always nice to come over to the minister and have a cup of coffee. What has to happen is that we have to find solutions; there has to be some action. Because, as I hear it, the Minister says that it is totally unacceptable if this happens in practice, that is, if parents have been threatened because they have a child who has difficulty in going to school because of anxiety and depression, because there is simply no room for the child in school. But should I just understand that the Minister then agrees that action is needed and that this should not be done? There simply needs to be some solutions on the table when the Minister has had the meeting, in terms of how to prevent families from being threatened with forced arrests and instructions of other things in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143324	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143325	It must be understood, as I have already said, that I cannot in any way, and I sincerely believe this, imagine that there are municipalities that are forced to remove children simply because parents do not want to send children to school where they do not thrive. Again: It will fall into the appeal system. I've never experienced anything like this from my experience with that system, so I can't imagine it. Nevertheless, as I have said a few times now, my ministry, which has a meeting with the National Association of Autism, will put it on the agenda, and then I will look forward to turning the things that we have talked about, together with Mrs Karina Adsbøl, too, and then we will see what else that path will bring us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143413	Then we should have finished with question No. 11. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. The minister can stay seated, because there's one more questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143425	Thank you for the floor, and my question is as follows: will the Minister explain why refugees coming to Denmark with the government's new proposals can receive a full Danish folk pension, and is it not discrimination against, among others, refugees coming to Denmark? foreign dancers who don't have the same opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143444	Thank you. It is true that the Minister remains in a whole cascade of questions from the Danish People's Party. Thank you, too, for the question from the questioner. With the agreement in question, which Christian Langballe refers to, refugees are again given the opportunity to take up a full national pension. The pension depends on the number of years of residence in Denmark, but refugees are now again credited with the number of years of residence in the country of origin. In fact, this has been the case in the past, and I am quite satisfied that the government, Enhedslisten and SF have agreed to ensure better conditions for refugees once they retire in Denmark, because refugees cannot, by their very nature, be presumed to have supplementary pensions from their country of origin. The agreement is that, with effect from 1 January 2015, we are actually reintroducing the legal situation from before 2011 when the VK government changed the rules. At that time it was called a harmonisation of the rules based on an argument that the rules of income became the same for refugees and other foreigners and Danes who may also have resided in other countries. However, it is a very formal consideration which does not take into account that other foreigners and Danes will normally have chosen to move to Denmark themselves or have worked in other countries and that they will usually have earned pension rights for the years in which they have not lived in Denmark. This does not apply to refugees. That is why there is no discrimination against foreign dancers. In fact, we are just returning to the rules in force in the past, and I think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143633	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143634	Well, I can tell you that we do not consider this proposal, which is contained in the new draft budget to be reasonable at all. And so there are many reasons for this, among others. the fact that it is discrimination. I have spoken to someone who has been working in Canada for 15 years and for this reason cannot obtain a full pension that feels discriminated against, even in relation to this bill. I do not think it is fair to make a difference in the way we do in this relationship, and I wonder why the Minister considers it reasonable that a person who is a refugee and comes to this country should be able to come in and get a full national pension in relation to other people having to spend 40 years in order to achieve this in this country. I do not think that is fair at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143744	I tried to listen to a question; I found that very difficult, because I did not think there was a question other than we disagree about fairness and that it is discriminatory. So I would like to reiterate that my approach is that it is non-discriminatory and that we are really bringing the legal state back to what it was before 2011 when the former VK government changed it. I don't remember exactly, but I think it was after pressure from the Danish People's Party, which is why I am of course not surprised that we disagree exactly in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143828	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143829	Yes, yes, but I do not think we are getting any closer either, because the government, despite claiming that it will tighten up a lot of relationships, relaxes, relaxes and relaxes. And this is also the case here, where you say to refugees who come to this country, which would be an incentive to apply to Denmark at all, that pensioners must spend 40 years earning a national pension in this country, while as refugees they can get it immediately. I think that is unreasonable, and I do not think we are going to get the answer either, because I do not think the government can answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143909	Yeah, you could do that. Where we also disagree, as Mr. Christian Langballe himself says is, in terms of whether it will cause more to come up here. We're not gonna agree on that. When you are a fugitive, when you may have seen your loved ones killed, seen your children killed, seen murders, rapes and things that most of us can only imagine, I don't think the first thing you think about is: Hey, here I can get a national pension, or here I can actually get yours and that. That's my assumption. I think it is about one thing, and I think it is a human condition, that I think it is actually quite universal, and that is that you make sure you get to safety, and I actually think that applies to these people too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143957	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119143958	But that is probably the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. We hear reports about and know that there are people coming here because conditions are better. I can't think people in that way. What we are saying in this is that it is unreasonable that there should be discrimination in the way that is done, both in relation to people who have earned a retirement pension through these 40 years, and people who have lived abroad and come back to Denmark and who cannot therefore receive a full national pension because they have not earned a full national pension. Then there comes a fugitive up here who can get full folklore pension almost from day one we think that's unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144041	Danes and others who have been abroad have been aware that they do not at the same time have the right to earn a full national pension, and in most cases other schemes have also been made. It is by its very nature that it is not always possible when you are exactly fleeing, and that is what we are actually correcting again. These are rules that have also been applied in the past, namely that the number of years of residence credited to the country of origin in Denmark is credited. But that is true, and I can also hear that: we do not agree. We have a different attitude towards people on the run; we have a different view that economic poverty as a folk pensionist in this case can lead to social poverty and still continue to be. But I've tried to answer as well as I possibly can. And as I started by saying: I do not believe that this is discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144143	So we are done with Question No. 12. We can move on to Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others. 13. It's still gone, sir. Christian Langballe, and it is again addressed to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144151	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144153	Thank you for the floor. The question is as follows: when currently approx. 300 derogations per month in relation to language requirements for the acquisition of citizenship, will the Minister explain what effect it has on integration that people cannot sufficiently understand the Danish language?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144212	Thank you for that, and also thank you for the question, this time too. First of all, I would like to set the framework for the answer. As the questioner, I assume, is well aware, the question of the conditions for granting Danish citizenship to the Minister for Justice is raised. And it is also the case that it is the Committee on the Rights of the Child who decides whether or not to grant a derogation from the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship, a committee which I think I am not entirely sure that the questioner himself is part of. At least that's my assumption. I am not aware of the extent or practice of derogations from language requirements in cases of Danish citizenship, so I will of course leave it to the Minister for Justice to comment on it and, incidentally, our excellent committee on citizenship. I have therefore understood the question as how I see the link between language skills and integration, which is also really, very important, and there should be no doubt about that. The mastery of Danish is clearly a fantastic and very, very important key to being integrated into Danish society, but of course it cannot in any way stand alone. For the language is one thing, but an understanding of and of course also an acceptance of the fundamental Danish values and also an active participation in both civil society, but clearly also in the labour market, are, like the language, important elements in terms of precisely being integrated into Danish society. Of course, there is a greater chance of getting a foothold in the labour market and, moreover, of becoming part of social life, which is of course an important, important framework for integration if you speak and understand Danish. It is therefore perfectly clear that Danish education is also a central part of the integration programme, which both refugees and family members are offered. So in other words, the language is one of the most important keys to achieving a beautiful and fine and fantastic integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144418	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144420	Thank you, Minister. I was, in fact, well aware that exactly as far as the issue of derogations is concerned, it is not the Minister I should like to ask. I'm a member of the Committee on Bodily Rights myself. I'm the president of it. But the reason why I ask is, of course, that I believe that the language is absolutely crucial to becoming Danish at all, to command at all with the Danish. If you don't know the Danish language, you never become a Dane. Then it is just that I think it is problematical and it is not because I am beating up a position as to why a majority in the Committee on the Rights of the Child grants so many derogations because what I think is grotesque is that the derogations are so much granted in connection with the acquisition of citizenship, knowing that, for becoming a Dane, the language is something absolutely crucial. That's kind of what I just want to hear from the minister. The basic question is: Is not being able to the Danish language a crucial condition for becoming a Dane and thus also obtaining Danish citizenship? That's the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144538	I fully agree that Danish is crucial. After all, the questioner is doing the very clever thing about getting some things mixed up with the Committee on Bodily Rights and Derogations. If I were the rapporteur and stood on that side, I would say: hey, it is the President who is standing there, and then you can ask yourself something somewhere. Yes, I understand that the chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child is smiling, and there is good reason for that too, because that is where the question, among other things, arises. can also be set. But where we are in complete agreement, and it is a good thing to find some agreement. I am very pleased that this is one of the rare times when I am very, very much in agreement with Mr. Christian Langballe is exactly in this area. The language is so important, and that is the key to entering the labour market, into social life and, of course, to understanding the cultural codes and peculiarities that exist. You cannot skip some places, because there of course you have to learn the language and all the nuances that come with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144641	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144643	Now I think the Minister is aware that because you are chairman of a committee, you do not decide what that committee votes or what arrangements it makes. However, I would ask you quite specifically whether it is not problematic to grant derogations in relation to certain language requirements which are absolutely essential for obtaining Danish citizenship, that is. to become a Dane. My question is as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144711	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144713	Yes, sir, but now Mr. Beckett is pulling. Christian Langballe it to such an extent, because it is not something that belongs to my resort area. That question must of course be put over in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, where it also belongs. What falls within my area of responsibility is, of course, the new citizens who come here; it is the integration programme; it is not what is so glorious that we now also see that Danish can be understood and spoken at many different levels. It's suddenly got a lot of nuances. I speak Danish in one way, sir. Christian Langballe speaks Danish in a different way. We have Prince Henrik, who speaks it in one way, we have Mogens Camre, who speaks it in another way, and we have Henrik Sass Larsen, who speaks it in a third way, i.e. a minister. So it's spoken in many ways, but what's the essence, what's at the heart of it, is that it's exactly the key to getting a foothold in Danish society at all levels, despite the fact that there are so many nuances in the glorious language. That is why some of it has to be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, but on the whole value of the language, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144838	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144839	Well, I don't think I have any more questions to ask, so I thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144845	Does the Minister have anything to add?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144847	I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144849	Then we got through Question No. 13. We can thank the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. He's done, too. On the other hand, we can welcome the Minister for Business and Growth, whom we were just informed of also has a name, and it is good to know, even though in this Chamber this is called the Minister for Business and Growth, and we must always remember that. Question No 1, by Mr McMahon 14 to the Minister for Industry and Growth has been appointed by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119144918	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister consider it a democratic problem that the creation of money in society is outside the control of the National Bank and can the Minister explain the economic consequences of the fact that the money creation privilege is placed with an ever-decreasing number of private financial institutions, cf. the opinion of the National Bank's most recent quarterly overview from the third quarter of 2014 in the article "Money, credit and banking services" that money in the modern economy is created through loans from private banks and mortgage institutions, and that when a bank grants a loan to a household or business, the proceeds from the loan will initially be credited to the borrower's bank account. Therefore, a loan will often initially be matched by a corresponding deposit and thus by an increase in the amount of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145006	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145007	Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to explain how money creation is taking place here in today's society. It is not every day that I get to ask such basic questions. In order to answer the question, I think it is important to make it clear first that it is many years since we had a so-called trade economy, where, for example, we had a trade economy. paid for an item with another item. And it is also a long time ago that we only paid our purchases with cash in the form of banknotes and coins. Today, we use electronic debit cards to a very large extent when we make purchases, and thus bank deposits become part of the creation of money. There is no single concept of money supply that gives a clear picture of the liquidity situation in society. The changeover between money and other financial assets is smoothing from cash to bank deposits to short bonds, where liquidity and value stability are gradually reduced. Before ever more money was used in the last century to use deposits and payments through cheques, money meant cash over which the National Bank had full control. Today, households usually pay by account transfers from the buyer's bank to the seller's bank, for example. via Dankort. Deposits have become as liquid as cash. From now on, the relevant definition of the money supply will probably develop further in line with innovations in the financial sector. In Denmark monetary policy has not played a major role in the creation of money for many years. The national bank has an instrument, and this is short-term interest rates, and since 1982 the national bank's short-term interest rates have been used exclusively to control the exchange rate, i.e. the exchange rate policy. And the fixed exchange rate policy vis-à-vis the euro means that the ECB, for example, will reach the euro. If the short-term interest rate is lowered, the National Bank will follow up by also lowering the short-term interest rate. Otherwise, it would be more attractive for foreign investors to buy up Danish bonds, and such a purchase would increase the demand for Danish kroner, which would thus be strengthened in relation to the euro. And the fixed exchange rate policy has now served Denmark well and contributed to economic stability for over 30 years. In my view, it does not make sense to talk about a democratic problem with the way money is created today. Citizens and businesses can demand the liquid assets they need at the current interest rate. And with regard to the declining number of banks, there are no indications that it should have had any financial consequences that the money creation privilege is placed with a decreasing number of financial institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145245	Thank you, Minister. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145247	Well, I appreciate the Minister's reception of this question, because sometimes it may also be nice to get up in helicopter perspective and discuss these a little overarching things. And now the Minister is a minister of the banks and has also been involved in the work on several bank packages, and one of the reasons for this question is the development that has been in the money supply and where one can at least discuss whether it has not had a major impact on the financial crisis which has also hit Denmark very hard. In 2013, there were 863 billion. kr. in circulation, of which a small part, approx. 6%, physical money. However, since 2003 alone, it has increased by 400 billion. kr. In other words, compared with the amount of money we have today, 400 billion has arrived. kr. to alone since 2003. And we know why this has happened; it is not so hard to figure out. It was because there was a time when a great deal of money was borrowed from the banks. And every time a loan is made, money is created, so to speak. Of course, it will be cancelled again if people pay back their debts. But when more money is borrowed and it happens at a faster pace than is being repaid, then there is an increase in the money supply. I also know that the Minister has been out criticizing some of the things that happened during the financial crisis. And there is my question to the Minister just whether this does not concern such a fundamental part of our infrastructure and that it is so important for society that it is problematic that it has been decoupled from the National Bank and has come to private hands, in other words as to the extent to which there can be an increase in the money supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145426	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145428	I would like to say that I fully share the concern of the author of the question, if things can go wrong in the financial sector and if there are speculative bubbles, such as. triggers a new financial crisis. But the amount of money available today is an expression of the demand for money. Of course, when it comes to demand, there is someone who has to assess whether there is credit behind the money that is now being generated, and that is to say, is there a real fortune behind the money that is now being demanded? As long as there is, and this is what we have secured with one bank package after another, the amount of money as such is not something that should worry us. On the contrary, it may be very good, because it may also be an expression of increased credit in society. The fact that there is increased credit is very good, because it helps to boost the activity of society. But as long as there are solid assets behind the demand for money, there is nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145517	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145519	I am very pleased that the Minister is just commenting on this: there must be coverage and there must be solid assets behind it. But it's not like that. There has to be some coverage for what the banks are lending, and we had that discussion at the latest in banking package VI: to what extent should there be coverage in relation to the bank's capital injections, etc.? But when the banks give a loan to Mr. Jensen of DKK 100,000, it is not the case that they have DKK 100,000. from a mover Olsen, who has set $100,000. Into an account, and then they lend it to Mr. Jensen. It's not like that. It's not one for one. After all, it is some money that is being created at the moment the debt is being created. The money is created through debt, and there I am just asking the Minister about • and there is no full coverage • whether it can be problematic that the banks can help to create money through debt to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145627	With all due respect, I think the questioner is messing things up a little. If we look at the banks and their funding, we can say that they must have some equity. They then go out and lend other money in a large money market, typically an interbank market where they actually get the necessary money. So the money is real enough and they are out there and they are spent, but it is not the case that a bank should have 100 per cent. Standing in equity in relation to borrowing out. You can, if I may say so, gear the capital contribution you have. After all, we have made sure that the whole basis on which the banks are founded today is extra solid, so the way in which the banks borrow money today has actually become extra secure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145706	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145707	I agree that some of the things we have done, as the Minister and previous ministers have also done, have done better today than it has been. However, as the Minister himself says, there is leverage, in relation to what banks can borrow, in relation to how much they have to hold themselves, so to speak. And, of course, we saw during the financial crisis that things can go wrong fast, compared to, for example, the situation. If something happens, the interbank market will freeze. If there's a panic in the market, everything stops all of a sudden. So my question is: when things go wrong, it has happened before, and perhaps it will come back to that again, is it not a problem that money creation, the increase in money in society lie with some private actors with very little governance on the part of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145757	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145759	No, I don't think it's a problem that it works the way it does today. Because the alternative would really be awful. What if we all had to go back to trading in cash and we had to ban cheques and ban electronic transfers and other things? That would be incredibly unfortunate, I think, to go back to it. I would very, very much not recommend that to anyone. Behind the fact that there is a crisis and that there is something freezing to it may be the interbank market and all kinds of liquidity. There is, of course, that you have to try to prevent it by having a healthy economy and having sound instruments. And the questioner's party and the government have made countless interventions to ensure that it will not go wrong again. So that's the happy message from this background. But that has little to do with the money supply, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145850	So we are done with Question No. 14. I thank the Minister for Business and Growth and thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. We move on to the next minister who has made himself available to the Danish Parliament today, and that is the Minister for Trade and Development. The first question to him is No. 15, and that's by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145910	Thank you, sir. President. Since Hamas is the second richest terrorist organization in the world with an annual turnover that rounds 1 billion. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I must inform you that there is an error in the text of the question. It says 2 billion. Dollars, but it's gonna have to be 1 billion. U.S. dollar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145933	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119145937	Thank you for the question. The Danish development cooperation with Palestine is focused on four areas: firstly, support for improving municipal services; secondly, support for the work of the British NGO Oxfam in Gaza to improve the competitiveness of small businesses; thirdly, earmarked support for the payment of salaries and pensions for public servants; and finally, fourthly, support for the work of the Palestinian Ombudsman and civil society organisations on human rights violations in Palestine, both in Gaza and in the West Bank. In addition, humanitarian aid is provided through the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Middle East and Danish humanitarian organisations and therefore also our emergency aid efforts. For all this support, it is provided through common mechanisms such as the World Bank, the EU, the UN and donor consortia, which have extensive control mechanisms built in. No funds are channelled directly to the Palestinian Government or to the Ministry of Finance of Palestinian Self-Government. In addition, Denmark has its own control mechanisms in the form of monitoring visits and financial inspection visits. So, of course, we ensure that no Danish aid funds are made available either directly or indirectly Hamas. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the earmarked support for the payment of public employees' salaries and pensions includes public servants in both Gaza and the West Bank. However, in both places it is only people employed by Palestinian self-government, and therefore not by Hamas, who benefit from the aid, both Danish funds and those of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150128	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150129	I would like to thank the Minister for answering the question. The reason I have chosen to ask this question is, among other things. the report which Forbes published not so terribly long ago and which could be read here only on 12 November. Here they are actually reflecting on this with, for example, how much money is being made available to terrorist organisations that have political power in different countries, and especially in Israel with regard to Gaza. And, of course, the report says that part of the internationally granted money goes through donations to Gaza • either from other Arab countries or from other countries. It means giving funds that end up with Hamas. That is why I wonder why we can reject it. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister chooses to reject and say that Hama's share in the Danish support crowns is neither indirect nor direct. But I just wonder why Forbes says it applies to all the countries that have given donations to Gaza, so to speak, that Hamas takes its share of the cake. And that is actually what I am asking the Minister to make clear whether it is correct or whether it is something Forbes has misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150255	Then it's the Minister of Trade and Development.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150257	Now I haven't had the opportunity to get into Forbes' report. It is not mentioned here in the question. Of course, if it had been, I would have done so and could perhaps reply more fully to what that report is about. The only thing I can say and explain here is how Denmark actually pays out funds to Gaza and, at the very least, to Palestinian self-government. And there is, as has already been said, the fact that we do not channel money directly to the Palestinian self-government or the Palestinian self-government Ministry of Finance; they go to international organisations working in the area and to Danish NGOs, and there we have control systems to ensure that the money reaches where it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150348	Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150349	Thank you. Yeah, well, that, among other things. According to the report, since the very famous elections in Gaza in 2007, when Hamas came directly to power, it has been found that they went from having very difficult access to money to being able to collect both personal taxes and to get their hands on corporate taxes and other subsidies via their political body. There it is that Forbes has been looking at how things are going with the donations coming to Gaza. And the report concludes that it is now in English, but I think I have read it so reasonably wisely that Hamas also takes part in all international donations donated to Gaza from Arabic and other countries. It's clearly described in this audit report, and there, of course, I'm just asking if it's something with which the Minister for Development has also had experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150453-2	Again, it would have been very good if the questioner had indicated that questions would have been answered on the basis of a report by Mr Forbe. Then we would have had the opportunity to prepare my answers better than that. We are also happy to answer written questions about Forbes if it is of interest. I cannot talk about what other countries are doing; I can only talk about what Denmark is doing. And as I have explained, we are very, very careful that the contributions made by Denmark go for the purposes that they should and that they do not reach in the hands of Hamas. Of course, we will also ensure that this happens in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150537	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150538	Well, there's the answer to the questions, so I don't mind us moving on to the next one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150546	Nor do I assume that this gives rise to the Minister's spending more time on this issue. I'm sure he can do that in the future. So we move on to the next question from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150556	Thank you. In the context of the Cairo Donor Conference in October 2014, a total commitment of 31.8 billion was made. kr. to the reconstruction of Gaza. Does the Minister consider that this gigantic appropriation is a reasonable priority in relation to the financial framework available, for example, for other and major development policy measures, for example under the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Organisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150626	At the international conference on Gaza held in Cairo in October, a total international commitment of some 32 million was announced. kr. Half of that amount is assessed earmarked for Gaza and the amount covers the period from 2014 to 2017, and the average annual contribution thus amounts to approx. 8 billion. kr. This includes the overall commitment from the donor circle to both immediate humanitarian aid, the longer-term reconstruction process in Gaza, but also the expected support for the entire Palestine as a whole. These figures can include: compared with the fact that there are estimated to be around 17 million refugees worldwide, of which as many as 5 million are Palestinians. The UN organisation for Palestinian refugees has the mandate of Palestinian refugees and stands in the absence of a functioning state in many areas with overall responsibility for the social and economic conditions of refugees. In addition, this summer's conflict in Gaza has caused massive destruction, among other things. schools, health clinics and farmland. According to the UN, the humanitarian crisis appeal for the occupied Palestinian territories in 2014 is currently only 40%. financed; the exceptional crisis appeal for Gaza from August of this year has now been financed by 79 per cent. following the Cairo conference. In addition, I can mention that, in 2014, the UN Refugee Organisation has provisionally received contributions of EUR 19 billion. and that the world's refugees are also supported by a large number of other organizations and host countries, so the total real cost of refugee-related assistance is quite much higher. However, in view of the massive destruction in Gaza, the high number of Palestinian refugees and the fact that the appeal for a crisis for Gaza was only financed by 34 per cent. Before the Cairo conference, I consider the priorities to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150840	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119150841	Thank you, sir. President. But I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the question. The reason why we have chosen to ask this question is, of course, that we want to have a dialogue with the Minister about this, with the priorities between the different places where there is a humanitarian need not only in Gaza but also elsewhere in the world where there are very many refugees. And perhaps many people have wondered about something, because if you look at the latest budget figures I have been able to find on UNHCR territory for a year, you will see that it is USD 5.3 billion. It is, in fact, USD 0.1 billion less than what has been donated through the Cairo donors' conference, which promised USD 5.4 billion to rebuild Gaza. There is a slight contrast to the fact that there are more than 50 million refugees worldwide, which has been agreed at least in the past, unfortunately is an increasing figure, and that has reached 50 million. However, only 1.8 million people live in Gaza, and that is why it may seem to us from many quarters that it is just as much money to spend one place on humanitarian efforts and reconstruction efforts when there are many other places that are also hot spots in the world. And that is the distribution assessment, which I would like the Minister to reflect on a little more. In other words, we are spending USD 5.3 billion in one year via the UNHCR for refugees with over 50 million, but at the same time we are using a donor conference to raise USD 5.4 billion alone for the reconstruction of a country where 1.8 million people live. And that is where we believe in the Danish People's Party that you could have gotten a lot more for that money if you had gone out and had invested a little more widely also many of the other places in the world where there are people who have really bad living conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151037	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151038	It is, of course, the case that Denmark makes a humanitarian contribution to virtually all the places in the world where we have major humanitarian crises, including Gaza, and we are also giving much more money to other parts of the world than we do to Gaza. What we are looking at are the appeals made by the United Nations. Actually, they're the ones we're looking at. We are looking at where the greatest needs are and where there is a need for someone to come up with funding, in other words where there is under-financing of the effort. There it is, for example. in Iraq at the moment, that there is a great deal of over-financing, or at least a great deal has been achieved in terms of funding, i.e. 200 per cent. In Gaza, therefore, only 40% have been financed, and that is why we give priority to Gaza.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151129	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151129-2	Thank you. I recognize that the Minister is allowed to give priority to what the Minister wants, and the government must of course do so, as long as there is a majority for it in the Folketing, but that does not change the fact that at some point the money box is empty. Surely we can agree that there is always a certain lack of resources, and therefore there will always be a need to prioritise everywhere, including in the public sector and also in public finances. We can see that, for example. Qatar has given a thousand million dollars for the reconstruction of Gaza. It's the biggest donation ever made. That is, of course, very good and sensible of them. But what we just think in the Danish People's Party is that we really need to be sure that we get as much relief and reconstruction and what we otherwise call it, good governance as possible all the other places where we make an effort with the Danish aid funds. So we can see that it seems that we are spending far too much money on a conflict in the Middle East, specifically in Gaza, and that is why we then choose that there is less money for other activities. What I want the Minister to confirm is that he agrees that the priority should be the way it is or whether he believes that it could have been done differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151241	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151242	It is quite clear that although, fortunately, in Denmark we are helping to fund humanitarian efforts in many parts of the world, and that the Danes in this way, and we also know that there is support for the world's poorest and for people in need, these funds must, of course, be given priority. That is also why we are looking at where the Danish funds are most needed. That is why we cannot simply look at a population of 1.8 million in Gaza, because there are 5 million Palestinian refugees and, unlike elsewhere, there is therefore poor funding. That's only 40%. That is why Denmark is joining Gaza.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151332	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151334	Yes, but once again I would like to say that I recognise that there may be different assessments of it, but precisely at the donors' conference in Cairo there were actually very many people who said that at least those who had a critical approach to the fact that there was too much focus on the material reconstruction of Gaza and that there was too little focus on the long-term solutions. That is what is somewhat in contrast to what I think we know just now that the Middle East crisis has not ended in Gaza. Well, we can spend a lot of money rebuilding Gaza and building new schools and all this, but it won't take long to destroy it once it's built. We know this from past experience, which is why it is perhaps the long-term solution that should be given more attention. And that's where we think you're spending the money wrong. We believe that it is better to spend them elsewhere and more widely on many of the other conflicts around the world, where there are many people who experience death, destruction and misery than it is to spend so much money on one specific conflict, the very conflict in Gaza.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151439	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151441	I believe that all Danes who experienced the war in Gaza and saw what it meant compared to that 20%. of all private homes have been destroyed in Gaza, that schools have been destroyed, that health clinics have been destroyed, that thousands have been killed, that children have been orphaned, well understand why it is important that we give priority to Gaza, especially when only 40 per cent is reached. has been financed by the funds that are really needed. And it is true that there will be a need to give priority to this, because if the Danish People's Party were to gain power in this country, there will be a lot, much less money to give to humanitarian efforts and to the very poorest and those who are exposed around the world, so I am proud to be part of a government that maintains a high level and has the social and human vision that we must help the very poorest and the weakest in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151544	Then we finished Question No. 16. Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party and to the Minister for Trade and Development. We move on to the Minister for Transport, who is the next minister to be on. And that is Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17 by Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151605	I would like to start by reading the question: can the Minister state whether the Minister agrees with the ports of Guldborgsund that the port of Orehoved will not be worse when the new Storstrømsbro is finished?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151616	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151618	Thank you for the question. When the new Storstrøm bridge is completed, Zealand and Falster will be connected via a piece of modern and, I must also say, much needed infrastructure for both runway and road. I am quite sure that will also benefit the nearby ports, including Orehoved Harbour. At the moment, the Road Directorate is in the process of designing the bridge, and it is also noted that access conditions to the port from the land and sea side after the construction of the bridge must be in order. As the project now looks, it is intended that a new guide will be built to Orehoved Harbour, which has an appropriate distance from the new bridge, which will after all be moved, compared to where the current bridge is located. The new sailing will have at least the same depth as the existing sailing. In the case of access roads to Orehoved Harbour, they are not expected to change when the new bridge is completed. As far as the time during construction is concerned, I have been told by the Road Directorate that it is very aware that access to the port from the land and sea side is in order, i.e. also during construction. It is also the case that the port of Orehoved was not designated as a work port for the Storstrøm bridge. It was just Nakskov. However, as has also been fully public in the process, there is the possibility that the port may operate as such. place of delivery when e.g. shall be transported recovered materials from the sea or other materials for use in the construction of the bridge. In such cases, the port may experience an increase in heavy traffic on the roads. If genes come out of it, i.e. because of the increased heavy traffic to and from Orehoved Harbour, it will be possible to build a temporary working road west of Orehoved City. The port will, of course, experience some changes during construction, but I do not see that the port will be placed at a disadvantage, so as to get to the point now when a new modern bridge is ready, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151827	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119151828	From the Danish People's Party's point of view, we are very much in agreement with the Minister that this is the goal, and in order to return to the bridge construction too, it is a fantastic bridge construction that is coming and which also gives ports an opportunity for that matter in both Vordingborg and Orehoved, because heavy traffic can now both drive south and north. It is therefore also so important that what is happening in the water should also do so, that ports should also be given the opportunity to move forward. It is therefore also the case that some local people expect there to be cooperation between, among others. Vordingborg Harbour and Guldborgsund Harbour. It is also possible to expand the port of Orehoved. It is the case that an EIA report has been launched, which is examining the possibilities of expanding Orehoved Harbour. What has unfortunately happened is that, when Guldborgsund Harbour was in dialogue with the Road Directorate, it has not been as clear as the Minister is here today as it is to indicate that, of course, every effort is being made to ensure that the ports of Guldborgsund, including Orehoved Harbour, are in as good a position as possible, even after the bridge has been completed, and this is particularly a matter of access. After all, the first sailing routes that were laid out turned out to have to be sailed by pilots almost every time you had to go to. It has also been found that the bridge is very close, we are talking about 500 metres, and it is really close to a harbour with such a large construction. That is why the sailing path becomes incredibly important: that you get something that is safe to sail, especially in relation to the development possibilities that lie when the bridge is finished. After all, the Minister is right that the bridge also provides some synergies in relation to the two ports located on both sides of the bridge. I am, in fact, pleased if the Minister here today, and perhaps that is why I have called the Minister down here, will give a commitment that, of course, we are doing everything possible to ensure that the crossing of Orehoved Harbour, which is affected by this, because new sailings must be made, can take place under conditions which are as good as possible, also in relation to what we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152020	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152021	Well, I can confirm that. After all, we are still away at an initial stage of the project down there, which means that we have not yet started seriously. But the principles which I have now put forward here are those under which one will work, that is to say a new guide with at least the same depth as the one we know today, but of course also with appropriate distance to the new bridge, which will be the nearest neighbour to Orehoved Harbour. Experience from visits to ports shows that hinterland infrastructure is therefore one of the key parameters for developing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152058	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152100	I would like to say to the Minister, who is talking about the road, which is of course the most important thing in the question that has been raised, that there are plenty of opportunities in the hinterland; especially at Orehoved there are many large agricultural areas. But then there's the maintenance of the roadway. It is the case that the sailing that is being made now is going to cross the current. And then I would like to ask the Minister, although it is not certain that the Minister can answer that now. I do not expect that either. If it turns out that it is a victorious who is sanding, is the Minister prepared to give an answer today that it will of course not be Guldborgsund Harbour, who will face the challenge that a new sailor will be much more demanding in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152140	I would just like to say yes, but I simply need to know the premises, because the issue of shipping lines is a really big issue for our ports, and there are no uniform conditions today. You have to be honest and say that. Some of it is historically conditional, and the other is geographically conditional. This will probably require us to know exactly what the cost today is to the current victorious and know how they will change. I do not know enough about the current conditions in the Great Power to know whether it will be a further burden on the economy, but I understand that the question is raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152218	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152221	I do not really have much more to do with the first question I have asked, other than to say that I am glad that the Minister in the Chamber has said that when you make major infrastructure projects it could also be elsewhere in Denmark it is of course important that you take the synergies with them, but that you also look at the challenges that may be associated with them. Now that we choose to use something that's gonna be close to 4 billion. kr. on building a Storstrøm bridge, it would be really a shame if it did not provide all the synergies, even when the bridge is finished. That is why I am pleased today that the Minister is saying that the challenge of another player, in this context a port, subsequently in connection with a bridge construction, is being taken very seriously. It may also be compliant elsewhere in Denmark, where major infrastructure projects are being carried out. So I would like to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152305	You're welcome. There is no doubt about this, and I think it might be possible to make a general call to the whole of the province that such historically massive investments are currently taking place precisely in the part of the country we are talking about here, namely the South Zealand, Falster and then down to Lolland with Fehmarn, which is sensible for society. Many of them have been in demand for a long time, others offer completely new opportunities, and so it is about seeing and grasping the opportunities that are coming. That is why I think it is only positive when you say locally: well, we have opportunities and we want to help develop them. There is a need for development in that particular part of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152343	Then we finished Question No. 17. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 18, and it's still gone to the Minister of Transport, and it's still gone, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152353	This is, of course, a question which follows on from what has been said in the past, and the Minister has now answered it very positively. But the question is: does the Minister agree that we should develop Blue Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152403	Thank you. I can, of course, give a brief answer and say: yes, I agree that we should, and we do. Blue Denmark is a lot of things, and I am not the only minister who deals with it. My responsibility primarily goes to the quayside, and it is therefore the hinterland infrastructure which is the responsibility of the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport and our agencies. But Blue Denmark is far more than that. It is also the shipyards, the shipyards we have in Denmark at the moment, they are the shipping companies of which we have many, they are logistics, they are the service companies and, of course, the ports, to name but a few examples. One thing is common to Blue Denmark, and that is that the maritime sector is one of Denmark's strongest industrial strengths. As I have said, I am responsible for the ports and for the hinterland infrastructure, and it is then the Minister for Business and Growth who is responsible for many of the other areas relating to Blue Denmark, including the Government's Wake-up Plan for the Blue Denmark. I have no doubt at all that ports are important. I think that most, if they are as fortunate as we politicians are, to be invited to look at the ports of Denmark, will be surprised at how much activity, how much development, how many investments, how many jobs there are in the maritime business clusters in Denmark. This makes ports important transport hubs, which is why we ensure through state investment that the arrival of Danish ports is at the top. As a very specific example, just before the summer holidays, we have implemented a number of projects that improve the conditions for wind turbine transport between a number of ports of unloading and production sites, which have been called, in popular or at least in ports, the wind farm for ports, for 45 million. kr. Yesterday I actually visited two ports, I visited both Aalborg Harbour and Hirtshals Harbour. I was fortunate enough to be able to take the first spade to a large new rail freight terminal at Hirtshals, on which Dansk Folkeparti is in the settlement. It was a great day for Hirtshals, and it is an important step forward in Denmark. So we invest in Blue Denmark, and when it comes to the backland infrastructure, it is my responsibility that we continue that investment rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152614	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152615	Thank you, Minister. I also expected the Minister to say something similar. I have also read "Growth Plan" for the Blue Denmark, and it is important and positive in many respects. Of course, when I ask this question, it goes back to the previous one. Because when you look at Storstrøm, there is actually quite a lot of development opportunities for the ports, both for Vordingborg Harbour and for Guldborgsund Harbour. For what we can see, when we look at it, is that where in the Sound, which is very well sailed, is only 7 metres deep, there is actually at the depth of the Storstrøm 10 metres, and therefore one can say that it is the main stroke when one looks at the shipping traffic, also from the former Baltic and elsewhere; then it is that way up through. And that is why, when you get a Storstrøm bridge where you can drive the rubber wheel traffic both north and south, there is really a great opportunity and opportunity to create new jobs in this area that is so badly needed. So the question here was, of course, whether the Minister supports the idea that the infrastructure both on land, as the Minister has a great deal to do and there is a lot of it and in the water must have the best opportunities. And there I could also understand from the Minister's answer to the first question that it is part of the Minister's work when you are completely finished in relation to the Storstrøm Bridge, and that the way in which you service the ports in the area around Storstrøm Bridge should of course not be hampered by the fact that you make some good infrastructure on land, but where you see sadly, we can say, with this cap on the move the bridge, so it gets very, very close to a port where it is only 500 metres, and that is therefore in these terminology very close when we talk about ships with a depth of 10 metres. But there isn't really much now. I have several questions left, but I clearly sense that the Minister is replying that this will be part of his future work, also in connection with implementing the Storstrøm Bridge, and I am actually very pleased with that. So I have no further questions, but I needed to hear it from the Minister, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152802	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152804	Thank you for that, and thank you for bringing this subject up. This is something that we historically, because of our geography and history in Denmark, have as a strength position. But competition in the global world is such that there are no positions of strength that will just remain there if we do not take an interest in it, debate it and are ready to invest, and that can only happen if there is political support and interest in it as well. So thank you for bringing the questions up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152829	Yes, I understand that the Minister of Transport and the questioner are so in agreement that it is wise to stop here, and we are doing so, and we can also do so calmly, because both the next minister, who is the tax minister, and the next one, who is Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen is ready. That is why we are going to move on to question No. 19, addressed to the tax minister by Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152851	Does the Minister of Taxation consider that it is in accordance with good legal certainty that in a case where a person who lives abroad but has a residence in Denmark and works during his/her stay in Denmark, it was decided that 3 days' work was not enough to trigger tax liability, and that in another case it was decided that 7 working days triggered tax liability as well as imprisonment for 1 year and 9 months and a considerable fine?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152921	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119152922	The questioner asks me to compare two specific cases, and for reasons of principle I do not want to go into them in detail, and I think we have already mentioned this in this Chamber. I would just like to mention that in such cases it is usually the case that there are rarely two cases which are the same, as people's work patterns and stays vary greatly. In addition, I would like to make a few general comments and observations. It is a priority for me to ensure the legal certainty of citizens and companies in the field of taxation. A precondition for this is the uniform application of the rules to taxable persons with similar circumstances. Therefore, there should also be no doubt that there must be full transparency about the management basis of SKAT, including the practices of SKAT, which must be fully accessible to all. This is the legal guidance that employees of SKAT have to base their casework on. This guide is updated twice a year by SKAT's legal department, with new rules, new judgments, decisions and new practices. Thus, it is also SKAT's legal department which assesses whether a judgment or another decision is relevant to SKAT's practice and whether it is therefore necessary to send out a steering signal, etc. The legal guidance thus ensures that uniform decisions are taken and thus contributes to ensuring legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153052	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153053	Last Wednesday I tried to get the tax minister to tell you a little about the Minister's view of good legal certainty. I asked whether it was okay to invoke confidentiality about a change in the equation guide, knowing that the change that is being made is also important for other taxpayers. I had to understand the Minister that it's okay. Then we'll know. Today I am trying to obtain the Minister's personal view of fairness in terms of tax liability and punishment. A person who does not live in Denmark may work 3 days without tax liability. Another person works 7 days and is sentenced to prison for 1 year and 9 months and a million penalty. Does the Minister consider that there is proportionality between the offence and the amount of the penalty? Three days of work triggered no tax liability, seven days of work triggered prison for one year and nine months plus a huge fine. Is that okay, Minister? I ask for the Minister's understanding of reasonableness in this, and the Minister does not have to cover himself behind specific cases. There is, of course, a general response to whether there is a proportionality between three days, which does not trigger anything, and seven days, which triggers prison for one year and nine months.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153228	First of all, I have to correct the questioner, because it is true that the questioner in this particular case is based on a case which the questioner has taken a fundamentally wrong view of. That is why we cannot deal with it in the way the questioner suggests. In relation to the specific cases, it is true that if there is criminal liability, it is not SKAT that carries out a case alone. The fact is that it is the police and the prosecution that are coming in. In that case, the role of SKAT alone is to help clarify and clarify the course of the case, and I can now see from the President that my speaking time is being spent ■ if questions of criminal liability are to be raised, it is the prosecution that is going to have to go over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153329	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153331	It's a trick for smart, tax minister, just like saying that SKAT is one thing, and then there's the police and the prosecution. I assume that the case has been raised by the police and the prosecutor's office at the request of the SKAT, since they probably haven't discovered this case themselves. However, I understand from the Minister that it is quite all right for a person to be free of tax after three days of work and for another person to be sentenced to prison for one year and nine months after seven days. If, then, the reply given by the Minister of Taxation last Wednesday, in which he defends that decisions can be taken with confidentiality, yes, and double confidentiality for the taxpayer with the three days, so that the taxpayer sentenced for seven days should not be made aware of the change in practice, does the Minister of Taxation not think that we are facing some legal problem? The only thing I am asking for is to have the Minister's personal view of the right and fairness in the area for which the Minister is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153447	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153448	Now I think the questioner is perhaps in the middle of two different cases, because first the questioner mentions a case in which a sentence has been handed down on a relatively long period of imprisonment and then mentions a case in which a sentence of seven days should have been handed down. It sounds very strange, but there I may find it a little difficult to relate to the specific cases. In any case, however, it is my opinion on the first case, which the questioner is referring to, that it is not the case that a final conviction has taken place which gives the long prison sentence; I am aware that an acquittal has been made. So, in this particular case, I think it is worth remembering that, in a trial which is always able to defend itself and use the information which is otherwise available, and if that is the case, then it is also announced into the system, and that is what I am aware of in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153549	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153550	I think it is strong tobacco to hear the Minister here give us these missing answers to this. In one case, the person is sentenced to prison for one year and nine months because there was no knowledge of the change of practice in the SKAT, which was kept secret and covered with professional secrecy. I assume, then, that a tax minister is concerned about the legal certainty of the citizens, and I assume that this is something that can keep a tax minister awake at night if you can sit and watch a person be sentenced to a fairly long prison sentence after Danish conditions of 1 year and 9 months, and then just knock out his hands and say, "That's how it is." So, Minister of Taxation, I am trying today to get the Minister to deal with the fact that while a person is being sentenced to tax, another person is sentenced after 7 days of work to prison for 1 year and 9 months. Is it not something that can keep the tax minister awake at night, sending people to prison on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153653	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153654	I think I have understood how the mistake occurred before, and it was that the questioner mentioned the seven days as being seven days in prison. Maybe that's where it went wrong. So this is the same case. If I know the underlying case correctly, then it is also a matter that has been closed, by the way, with an acquittal, and this has happened over a year ago. This should also end the specific case. But it does not seem to be for the questioner. I do not know what is driving this repeated tramp around in that particular case, for example. is because you have a personal chasing in relation to selected employees in the SKAT, or whether the questioner is otherwise personally involved in the specific case. But I know that it would suit the questioner that he took part instead in a more constructive and forward-looking dialogue; I would do so, and at least if one were to pretend to be interested in legal certainty in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153746	That was Question 19. We have come to question 20, which is the last of the day. It's still gone, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, and it's still gone the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153755	Does the Minister of Taxation consider that it is in line with good legal certainty that the tax authorities can wait a few years to publish a new practice in tax matters when you are aware that during the same period citizens are subject to tax liability, fines and penalties according to the old practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153813	Clearly, it would be a matter of legal certainty if it were to be the case, as the questioner describes. Happily, it doesn't. As I also mentioned in my answer to the previous question, ensuring the legal certainty of citizens and businesses in the field of taxation is a priority. A precondition for this is the uniform application of the rules to taxable persons with similar circumstances. There should be no doubt that there must be full transparency about the management basis of the SKAT, including the practices of the SKAT, which must be fully accessible to all. SKAT's practices must be fully accessible to all. If SKAT considers that e.g. a judgment or other decision is a matter of principle and therefore has an impact on SKAT's practice, it will be made publicly available. It can, for example, be done. the transmission of a steering signal which is published and subsequently incorporated into the legal guide. This is the legal guidance that employees of SKAT have to base their casework on. The guidance, as I have mentioned, is updated twice a year by SKAT's legal department, which also assesses whether a judgment or other decision has an impact on SKAT's practice and whether, therefore, a steering signal, etc. should be sent out. The legal guidance thus ensures that uniform decisions are taken and thus contributes to ensuring legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153940	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119153941	I do not think I am really in a position to get the Minister to take a position on questions of citizens' legal certainty, but I will try again anyway. How long does the Minister think it can take to publish a change of practice in relation to the equation guide? After all, as the Minister rightly says, the changes take the form of steering signals, but how long does the Minister think it is reasonable to go from a decision on a new practice to publication to the public? Is that supposed to be right away? Is that supposed to be after three months? Is it supposed to be after 1⁄2 years? Does it have to be after 1 year? Is it supposed to be after two years? Is it supposed to be after three years? I'd like to know where the minister is in those cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154025	However, I have explained what the practice is, i.e. that at least twice a year the legal guidance is updated and that control signals are also being broadcast on a regular basis. But it is no different from the fact that the matter, which I have the feeling that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen continues to return to, and is not of a nature which suggests that the change in practice which Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen is so busy. In other words, this is the case, and we have also been very clear about communicating in the Treasury, both in the past, and while I have been Minister of Taxation, that the change of practice which is taking place is taking place in connection with a conviction, as the questioner has mentioned in previous questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154127	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154128	The cases that I have taken an interest in, the tax minister, are cases in which the tax authorities make a positive decision against the taxpayer, in other words they agree with the taxpayer. Even if you agree with a taxpayer, it may be important for others. That is why I am surprised that it is possible to impose professional secrecy on such decisions, double professional secrecy, as people in the same organisation who are subject to the same professional secrecy as the person who made the decision cannot be informed of the content. It may well be that the Minister thinks this is completely trivial, but I would just like to point out, Mr President. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I mean, it violates my legal awareness, and that is why I am so interested in hearing what the Minister's legal certainty says in those cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154235	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154236	I am incredibly happy to live in a country where one is able to appeal against a judgment, and where it is also the case that if there is the necessary basis to reverse that judgment, it is also done. Isn't that legal certainty, sir? Claus Hjort Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154253	Then it's mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154254	Now I'm talking about SKAT. The Østre Landsret rescued the person in question. Had it been for SKAT, they would have stood by 1 year and 9 months. That is, of course, the fact of the matter, Minister of Taxation. Then the tax minister should not come running and say that the person in question was rescued. It is, of course, SKAT that has brought the matter to light, and that is what I think is so obviously unfair in this matter. However, I have tried in vain to persuade the Minister simply to reveal his view of the right and fairness of this society, but the Minister is not very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154333	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154335	Actually, I think I'm very sympathetic. I would point out that, in the present case, a steering signal was changed in the light of the given case, because the judgment given changed a practice exactly. It was then modified in the control signal. So I have to admit that, first of all, precisely here I am very pleased that the claim that it should be SKAT, which is a charge, is not true; this is happening through the prosecution. Secondly, when we live in a state governed by the rule of law, if a court changes a decision and thus creates a new practice, then it will also subsequently have the consequence that practices change as quickly as possible. I think I have explained this very clearly. But I am also aware that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen has a different perception of reality on this point when it comes to the actually applicable conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154437	That was the end of Question 20. Thank you, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen and thank the Minister for Taxation. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141119154448	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 20 November 2014, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
