ParlaMint-DK_20141210130005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 89 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and the Law on General Housing, etc.) Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen): Bill L no. 90 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Adult Training Support (SFU), Act on Active Employment Efforts, Equalisation Act and Law on Institutions for General Secondary Education and Adult Education, etc.) Bill No. L 91 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the accreditation of higher education institutions (No prequalification of new courses by aggregation of existing courses)). Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 92 (Proposal for a Law amending the Trade Marks Act, the Design Act, the Patent Act and the Law on Models of Use (Strengthened Action Against Piracy in the Establishment of an Enforcement Unit, etc.)). Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill L no. 93 (Proposal for a Law on Powers of the Future). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Danish Parliament Esben Lunde Larsen (V), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Annette Vilhelmsen (SF), Per Stig Møller (KF) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG) have informed me that they want to withdraw the request for training and research. The question is: Will the Minister explain the impact of the government's dimensioning model on individual educational institutions, including professional academies, professional colleges and universities? • Haste query (no. F 13) has now lapsed and the first item on the agenda is therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130124	When Mr. Peter Skaarup has some difficulty in getting there, we start with Question No. 2 to the Minister of Justice by Mrs Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130140	Can the Minister explain why, during Question Time of 5 November 2014, the Minister stated on the Government's asylum bill and the changes relating to family reunification that, and this is a quote, it is the Ministry of Justice's assessment that as much as is possible within the Convention has been tightened, while in a committee's reply to the Danish Parliament as well as in a consultation on 3 December 2014, the Minister has stated that, quote, as regards the question of limiting access to family reunification, the Ministry of Justice has not determined whether a longer period than 12 months will be in line with Denmark's international obligations?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130228	The Government's proposal will only allow for family reunification during the period until the resident's residence permit under the proposed provision of Section 7 (3) of the Aliens' Act may be extended after 1 year if Denmark's international obligations require permission for family reunification. The opinion of the oral answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (Doc. S 208, as the author points out, concerned this period, i.e. the period until the temporary residence permit may have been extended after one year. As can also be seen from my first reply in reply to Question No. S 208, the Ministry of Justice has not determined whether a longer period than 12 months will be in line with Denmark's international obligations. And with regard to this, i.e. whether, within Denmark's international commitments, the period of one year could be extended to, for example, 14 months or 18 months, it is certain, on the one hand, that if the period of one year is extended, less emphasis could be placed gradually on the temporary nature of the stay, including the length of the residence permit. It is precisely this temporary nature to which the Ministry of Justice has attached considerable importance when assessing the proposed scheme. On the other hand, it cannot be said, and that is what we discussed at the consultation a short time ago, that there will be clear contractual obstacles to defer access to family reunification to, for example, 14 or 18 months. So to put it very briefly: within the 12-month period family reunification will only be granted if we are internationally committed, and that is what was in the wording that we have probably tightened as much as possible within the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130416	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130417	It is almost tempting to say that if the Minister of Justice had been involved in a quiz programme, one would have asked whether this was the final answer. Because it must be said that chaotic conditions have prevailed, not only when it is precisely about family reunification and the little tightening up that has been planned there, but in general on the territory of the Ministry of Justice here recently. We are also seeing it in these days when it is something quite different that is chaotic: the report that is so much debated. However, I would like to say that I find it totally unacceptable that we have not been able to get answers from the Ministry of Justice or, rather, we have been able to get that, but the answer has been different, depending on the day that has been asked, in relation to whether what has been tightened, what can be done within the conventions, or whether there was not. And you can't even say that it depends on who you've been asking. Karen Hækkerup has said one thing when she was a minister, and the Prime Minister has said another thing, but the current Minister for Justice has had no less than two explanations in this area. At one point the explanation was that what was expected was tightened, that was what the Minister of Justice replied to me down here in the Parliamentary Chamber to an oral paragraph 20 question on 5 November and when we got a little further, the explanation was that it had not been fully determined whether what could have been tightened. I mean, it's just to say that it's totally unacceptable for the Folketing to be put in a situation where you can't get clear answers. For me, this dispute shows everything about total chaotic conditions in the Ministry of Justice. And again, I'm tempted to ask if this is the final answer. For me, it sounds a bit like a speech bypassing and as something where the officials have tried to sit very close to text and see if it could be moved around a little, and if in some way one could have understood it in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130631	But the good thing about Mrs Inger Støjberg is that no matter what subject we are discussing and no matter what I am Minister for, there are always chaotic conditions and things always sail. And now it is a new area over which the questioner has embarked. It must, of course, be the case that the Folketing gets clear answers, and that is also why I summed up my answer by saying that within the 12-month period that we propose with L 72, family reunification will only be granted if we are committed internationally. And that is probably what has been tightened up as much as it is possible, unless the international conventions are to be denounced.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130707	Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130721	Well, I don't know if the minister thinks everything's going. I haven't said that everything is sailing. I haven't mentioned that at all today. But it has to be at the Minister's own expense. All I know is that when we were on the conciliation a week ago, when I asked about this and told the Minister that the Minister had said two different things, the Minister could not answer. But it is a good thing that within a week, at least with help, one can say, of a little trickery and some text study, one way or another can try to avoid it. It just doesn't change the fact that there are completely chaotic conditions. If the Minister cannot see it, then I think the Minister is the only person in this kingdom who can't see that at the moment. chaotic conditions prevail in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130757	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130758	Oh yes, I am referring to previous questions that I have received from the questioner and where it has been said that things were sailing and where incredibly many words have been used in that way. It is always easy to swing up to such rhetorical heights, and that is not far from the questioner. When I was given a specific wording for consultation, I asked for an opportunity to see the context in which it had been said. And I actually think that's okay for you to do as a minister. Of course, we can choose to make this a battle for words, or we can get back to the material: what is the situation in the area of asylum? And I would recommend the latter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130834	Then it's Mrs. Inger Støjberg in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130835	Joh, but when we on the Left, and when I have asked about this, it is precisely to get some substance into the debate, but it is just very difficult to get substance into the debate when you get different answers. I do not think it can be so difficult to answer whether we have tightened up what we can or whether there is still room for austerity in relation to compliance with international conventions. Well, I kind of think that if it's not substance, then I don't know what it is. But the Minister does not have to stand up at all because the Minister got the transcript from the Parliamentary Chamber, and it was not the case that the Minister said it once, because the Minister said it all three times on 5 November.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130917	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130918	But, as has been said on several occasions, it is the case that when it comes to accessing family reunification only during the first year, if international obligations so require, it is difficult to see how to tighten more unless one wants to move down the road of starting to terminate international conventions. We do not want that. Then there is the question: can the period of 12 months be extended? There is the fact that we on the part of the government have said that it is not something that has been investigated, but it is also not the case that I am going to stand and say to the Danish Parliament that it is not possible to do so. So that must depend on a concrete legal assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210130958	The question is closed. The next question is also to the Minister for Justice, and this is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131009	The question is: is it the view of the Minister that the controversial Eritrean report of the National Council of Foreign Ministers is still factually and professionally well founded when two staff members of the National Council of Foreign Ministers appear to have paid sick leave to protest about the report's conclusions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131026	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131029	Let us take a little prehistory for the discussion, which also takes up a lot in public space. In August 2014, the Foreigners' Board informed the Ministry of Justice that the Board did not find the available background information on Eritrea fully updated. The government had therefore decided to carry out a fact finding mission. When the immigration authorities in Denmark deal with asylum seekers, they need to know the conditions in the country where applicants come from. Information about the situation in the country of origin is therefore something that the asylum authorities are following very closely, and that should of course be the case. The Foreigners' Board has a special documentation office, which is responsible for collecting background information on the situation in the relevant countries, including: By going out. The Country Documentation Office is increasingly providing background information through missions where country advisors themselves travel to the countries concerned. They collect information through meetings, among others. with the country's authorities, international organisations and NGOs. Since 1983 we in Denmark have had an asylum system in which asylum cases have been dealt with independently of the political system. That's smart. As Minister of Justice, I will not go into dealing with the specific asylum cases. Here, as I think we should do, I am complying with an arm's length principle. It is a right principle, it is an important principle, and I also think that it is a principle that should be upheld, even if one disagrees with the material, regardless of which side of the Folketing one might come from. The arm's length principle applies to the specific treatment of asylum, and it also applies to what may be produced by different reports. Therefore, as with all other background material, it will ultimately be the Refugee Board which will decide whether the new information on Eritrea should be relevant to the specific asylum cases and what importance they should have. Serious criticism of this report has been made of no one, I think, and that is why I have asked the Foreigners' Agency to explain the progress of the preparation of the report, and I have asked for that statement to be made as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131244	Free Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131245	Thank you. Since I submitted the question on Friday, there have been a number of positive things that had to be handed in by 1 p.m. 12. As I have said, the Minister has commissioned a statement on the matter, and since then the Foreign Affairs Council has withdrawn part of the conclusion, so that asylum can still be granted to conscientious objectors and illegally left Eritrea. At the same time, however, we have also seen that there is an experienced official who writes at least today that Berlingske has disagreed so much with the conclusions of the original report that he has taken sick leave and, moreover, according to his own statement, has pointed out that there were problems with the report along the way. Does the Minister not think that it is most unusual for a board to ignore warnings and deliver such a poor report as is evidently the case here? And does the Minister not think that it is reasonable to believe that the board could directly or indirectly have picked up some kind of real or imaginary political signal that has caused one to plunge into this project in the way one has?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131359	I'm not the one who's asking the Danish Parliament. However, I think that Parliament will have to consider whether we should stand and deal with specific staff matters in the Parliamentary Hall of the country. I also think that we need to consider the wording of the question asked whether I believe there has been political interference. For my part, I can say that there is, of course, no such thing. I'm the Attorney General of the country. I am not drafting country reports on Eritrea, Burma, Afghanistan, Iraq or any other country, and why on earth should I do so? Are we quite sure that we want an asylum system in Denmark, where successive ministers and politicians must make themselves overjudges of the situation in the individual countries from which asylum seekers come? I think you have to stop and think carefully before you continue down that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131445	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131447	I believe that we all want an independent asylum system in which the treatment is based on reports that we can at least rely on. In my opinion, this has not been possible in this case, and I think that is also clear when the Immigration Authority itself resigns because of parts of the report. But the Minister must agree with me that it is not every day that an official is seen standing up like this, and I think that is something that I would call for extra attention. I think there's been a lot of uncertainty about this report, so maybe you should withdraw it. Does the Minster himself think that it seems that there has also actually been the necessary independence in the Foreign Affairs Council in the case in question? Or does the Minister think that it is possible to overreact to a kind of political signal here or perhaps have acted on the basis of a misguided assessment of political wishes and that in future it may be necessary to ensure that those who make these reports do not respond to imaginary or real political signals? I am thinking of the fact that the government was very, very strong in saying that it was a problem with the large flow of refugees from Eritrea and that this should call for an investigation and that the procedure should be suspended. Is it not obvious, then, to think that there is a governing body, thinking that you have to make a little effort to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131612	I have to say that I find it difficult to answer whether there should be imaginary signals, and I also think one is moving very far down a path here. I would like to have an asylum system in Denmark that is independent of us politicians. And that applies no matter who sits in the Folketing and whoever may be the minister. That is why, of course, we also have to consider that, in the current situation, if I am to be the chief judge on a specific country report on a country in the Horn of Afrikas, will Søren Pind or another minister be the chief judge on reports on Afghanistan, Iraq or Syria in 2, 4 or 6 years' time? I think you should think really, really good about it. Having said that, of course, it should not be the case that the Foreigners' Board produces reports at any time with a result or content that you think someone wants. It must be done objectively and professionally and on the right basis. As far as staffing is concerned, I think it should be dealt with where staff matters are dealt with. And I think so too, for the sake of the people involved, is not in the Assembly Chamber. And then I just have to say again that there is a reason why I have asked for a statement, and that is, of course, because, among other things, there is. has raised criticism of the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131721	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131723	I am pleased that the Minister is saying that these should be professional and factual reports. In any case, I think it can be said that there has been some criticism of this report. We also agree that staff matters are not something to be dealt with in this Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister's basic position on this whole issue. In one of today's articles in the Berlingske Tidende, one of these officials is asked this question: Is it your opinion that Jakob Dam Glynstrup is the head of the ERIT report's office? Yeah, he says. Why? he is asked. He answers: I don't want to go into details. Does the Minister not think that this indicates that there has been some kind of pressure in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131814	The fact is that I am the Minister for Justice of the country, and I can completely reject the fact that I should have interfered in that report. I would not dream of interfering in that report, I would not dream of interfering in the handling of asylum issues by independent authorities. It would be wrong to do so, and I have no preconditions for it. To put it bluntly and respectfully, I do not think that there are any other politicians in Denmark who are involved in the discussion about the Eritrean report that is necessary to assess the conditions in Eritrea in relation to Danish asylum practices. When such a heavy criticism is raised of this report, I think it is natural to ask the board to explain the progress of the report, and I have asked for it, and now I am awaiting that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131903	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131910	The next question is: does the Minister not think that, in view of the much criticism of the Eritrean report from the Foreign Affairs Agency, it is time to produce a new report with a second opinion and the inclusion of some more sources, including the UN?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131925	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210131928	It sometimes seems that the arm's length principle, which everyone pays tribute to in principle, comes under pressure very quickly when it comes to responding to the public debate. In other words, if we want to have independent asylum authorities in Denmark and I assume that a majority in the Danish Parliament will continue to be my very, very strong recommendation that you do not start with political interference in the asylum procedure in Denmark, and it does not matter who sits as Minister of Justice and who has the political majority. If it starts to be up to changing political majorities to assess who can obtain asylum in Denmark, on what basis they can obtain asylum opportunities, and how the procedure should be carried out, then we will of course form the basis for a completely different asylum practice from what is currently the case. As far as the specific country reports are concerned, it is the responsibility of the asylum authorities; it is the task of the asylum authorities to ensure that there is quality in the material available and, of course, always to assess whether the material they have is sufficient and what other material they need to include in their treatment. And it goes without saying that the authorities are also responsible for securing as strong a knowledge base as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132040	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132042	I am not asking the Minister to interfere in the asylum procedure either, but we have a report which has been criticised from right to left and at least so much that the Minister himself thought it was time to ask for a statement. And it is of some importance to the people that this is about, namely people from Eritrea, if a report is flawed in the way that is the case. After all, the Minister himself says that there must of course be quality in these reports, but when it turns out that there is not, the Minister must have given some thought to what we do about such reports. Is this gonna have some consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132124	Sometimes it may be very good to have an experiment of thought. Of course it can also be dangerous, but let me try anyway: Should you then have the country reports, which form the basis for Danish asylum practice, in the Parliamentary Chamber? In other words, when a new country report is made on South Sudan, Somaliland, Burma, Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Chechnya or Russia, do we need them in the Parliamentary Chamber? So we're gonna read them all? Are we going to vote on whether or not, for example, we are going to vote? Does the description of Chechnya seem right or wrong? We need to be careful. I understand that you want to respond to a public discussion, and I would very, very much like to be sure that the Danish authorities have a right, correct and quality-oriented knowledge base, but I would really be careful that we should start politically determining the content of country reports in the field of asylum as in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132222	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132224	I think the Minister must take a position on the fact that there is a report which is quite essential to asylum treatment and which is very flawed. I think you can take a position on that as a minister, but I understand you do not, because there are others who need to take a position on that. Then I would just like to ask the Minister whether the current case gives rise to consideration of changes in the organisation of how such reports are made so as to prevent officials who are, after all, subject to the Minister's instructional powers, and who are typically very, very responsive to political signals, from producing reports that are colored by actual or imagined political preferences rather than reports that are sober and objective. At least I think we can see that things have gone quite wrong on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132320	It is true that it is my job to have opinions. It is also my job to keep a cool head, perhaps not least in a situation where there is a collective risk that this will not happen. Of course I have opinions. I am following this area at least as closely as the questioner does, and perhaps even closer. My task is, of course, to be sure that the Danish asylum authorities are functioning as the law has once been set up, and that is therefore on the arm's length principle. Having said that, I would like to say that Parliament must at least consider the consequences of what is being asked of me. Because if it becomes the case that changing justice ministers have to deal with the country reports that are coming, whether the countries from which asylum seekers are seeking asylum, is the questioner quite sure that this is the right approach? I am happy to discuss it, but is the questioner sure that is true, because what then next comes a country report that some may have divergent views about? If we are to have it in Parliament, then we must vote on it, and how are we going to do it? We need to consider that the Danish authorities handle the knowledge base on which they work correctly. If serious criticism is then raised, I would ask the board for a statement, but I really would warn against cutting down the arm's length principle, even if there is a heated public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132443	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132445	What exactly has been the problem with this report is that we have not been able to trust it. Now we have resigned from some of the conclusions. I am not asking us to have every report in the Chamber. We have not had that in the past, and we will not have it in the future either, but I think that the Minister should take a little interest in how such a report has been put together in this way and how the conclusions can be reached in spite of so much other knowledge about Eritrea. Then I just have one question at the end, because I can feel that we are not going to make any progress on this, and we also have a consultation at some point, and then we may get deeper into some discussions about this. Does the Minister consider it reasonable to leave the rest of the report? A great deal of it has now been overruled, but does the Minister not think it would be commendable if it were to be withdrawn altogether, so that we do not allow it to be part of any kind of procedure, because I would have serious reservations about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132545	The point is that if we are to enforce an arm's length principle, and if we are to have independent asylum authorities, it will be extremely difficult if I have to assess on a case-by-case basis whether or not I want to comply with that principle. What about the specific asylum procedures? A specific asylum seeker is refused. If I disagree with that as Minister of Justice, should we have a system where I suddenly tell the board that I don't agree with it? No, we're not. If the Immigration Authority decides that an asylum seeker cannot obtain asylum, it will automatically be transferred to the Refugee Board, which is far away from me as a minister. That is the way it should be. Whether it is the Foreigners' Agency or the Refugee Board, the authorities are obliged to obtain and relate to and have access to as much knowledge and information as possible. This applies both to Eritrea and to other matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132638	The question is closed. Then we go back to the question that was listed as No. 1 on the agenda. It's for the Minister of Justice of Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132649	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that today there are 530 fewer police officers in Denmark than three years ago, and that police tasks are thus downgraded, and does the government intend to increase the police force so that there are sufficient staff to carry out the tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132708	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132710	I do not think that the questioner was given the idea that the Danish People's Party is part of the multi-year agreement which is the basis of Danish police and the police economy, but I think that can be very good for listeners and viewers to know. For that means that the current government and the Danish People's Party agree on the conditions that apply to the Danish police. And as the questioner knows, the multi-year agreement here exceeded a more result-based management of the police, which I assume is also supported by the Danish People's Party. At least you're part of the settlement. This means that the number of police officers is no longer subject to any measures of strength, and all this has been wanted, because the political parties, including the Danish People's Party, which is part of the multi-year agreement, have decided to do so, can be said to have confidence that the police themselves give priority to resources within the framework of the multi-year agreement. I also think it is important to say that we have just had a meeting in the conciliation circle where the questioner himself took part, and in a number of areas we can see that things are actually going very well, and we are doing better in terms of crime in our society. Having said all that, we must, of course, ensure that we have the police force that is sufficient to combat crime in Denmark. But things are going pretty well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132838	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210132840	Well, it is quite right, as the Minister says, that there is a conciliation in this area, but that does not mean that there can be different views as to whether you should have more police officers or fewer police officers or the same number. And there we have the view in the Danish People's Party that more policemen are needed. We do, of course, for this reason that the police themselves say that there is a problem and that there is a challenge. I found right here for the occasion what Claus Oxfeldt, President of the Police Union, says about this situation, which is currently with the Danish police. He says to Denmark's Radio on 28 November: The consequence is that we have to give priority to hard work, and where the people have a clear expectation that the police will come forward, there are very many times where this unfortunately does not happen. I think that the Minister for Justice should try to listen to that rather than say that there is a settlement and that we cannot do anything about it. I expect a little, or I expect a Minister for Justice to take stock of the situation you have among the citizens and not just listen to what management may sometimes have an interest in saying, because there is a result pay, and everything has to look good. You can understand that, but when the private officers say no, and when the private officers almost agree, when you talk to them, they say they have too few resources, it's something the government has to look at, and then it's something the Minister of Justice has to look at. If we look at what resources really are, then I have to say that there is another development going on, for example. the other Nordic countries. If you look at Norway and Sweden, you see that more police officers are coming, and why is that? Well, that is because international crime has increased. We have more people travelling across borders and doing crime, and it will be harder to investigate what has happened because the perpetrator may be in Warszava or Vilnius or Bucharest or somewhere else. So I would like the Minister of Justice to come back to this and tell the Danish Parliament and the public what the government is doing with thoughts. Is it sustainable that the police force has been cut by 530 men over the last few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133055	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133104	As the Minister of Justice, I always decide whether we have the most effective fight against crime, because that is what we need. To be able to live in a safe society with a knowledge that one can move freely, that one can be in one's own home, that the problems that are, I think, are something quite, fundamentally important to all of us as citizens of Denmark, not least when one, for example, is able to deal with. as parents send their youth out into the streets and alleys and even into the nightlife. I'm glad I'm not even there in time. But that doesn't change the fact that the Danish People's Party will have to take responsibility for the Danish police too. I am happy to answer questions, but when you are part of a conciliation group, you have also been involved in making decisions about the economy which is at the heart of the Danish police force, and you have to stand by that, including the form of governance that we have chosen, namely that it is the police that must give priority to resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133146	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133148	I think the Minister is a little disloyal as Minister of Justice here. After all, the Minister of Justice must ensure that there is law and order in the country, that there are enough policemen to carry out that task, and that we, for example, are able to do so. do not have parallel gang communities where you have someone other than the police to enforce law and order. And this is a current issue that we see around the country. I would also like to ask the Minister for Justice if it makes no impression at all that there are more and more people hearing stories from citizens who are dissatisfied with the fact that the police do not have the opportunity and time to come when they call. We have, for example. seen that a lot of break-ins are being committed in Denmark, where the police have no time to get out and record clues and instill the security it would be for the citizen, that a strong policeman or two will come out and see what has actually happened, what has been stolen, and whether there are any clues they can find.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133240	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133241	I think it is important that the police are present. I think it is important not to commit crime. I welcome the fact that in a number of areas, such as agriculture, agriculture and fisheries, this is a very important issue. As far as the number of notifications is concerned, in fact, the right way is going, and so is breaking and entering. That's really positive. Does this mean that we are in the goal that there is nothing to discuss as far as the Danish police are concerned? No, and that's probably never gonna happen, by the way. I would also like us, in the way the police organise their work, to have a balance between the very effective, also on the investigative side, where the Danish police are good, while, of course, we need a police force that is present. I also have quite a lot of confidence that the police are good at prioritising their resources, and I certainly intend to stand by the agreement that has been reached, among other things. of the questioner himself, that it is the police that must give priority to resources within the overall framework. Then, in the conciliation circle, we can discuss, when we are going to start a new multi-annual agreement, whether we want to change some of the priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133343	Sir. Peter Skaarup, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133345	The minister talks a lot about the fact that we now have significantly lower crime rates. So what do the policemen say about it, what does the police union say? Well, the chairman, Claus Oxfeldt, says exactly about the situation: "There are a lot of dark figures. There's something that's never gonna be reported. We have parallel societies where you know it's not being reported to the police. We hear from both police and private people that there are more and more tasks that you would normally ask the police to do, you do them yourself. It's for me in a nutshell what this is all about. Will we face the fact that there is a development in progress where we have fewer and fewer police officers and have criminals who have become more skilled, among other things. because they are going back to Eastern Europe or where they are coming from, and will we respond to that? And I would like to repeat my question: would the Minister not consider whether, on top of the appropriations available now, more police officers will be required to carry out the task that we want the officers to solve on behalf of all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133447	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133448	Well, there is every reason to distance ourselves from parallel societies, for all reason, and it is whether we are talking about criminals or we are talking about social codes or other things that keep people down. I would also like to say very, very clearly that if you are exposed to crime in Denmark, you must always report it. It will be my only, clear and simple recommendation. One should never be left behind, and one should not put up with as a citizen of Denmark, in our society, if someone has different views on that issue. You have to report it if there is something criminal going on and, of course, you have to expect things to be done in a proper way. There are dark figures on crime. I do not think it has come as a result of this multi-annual agreement. I think there's always been dark numbers, and I guess there's always gonna be. Some of this comes from the fact that it is precisely crime. And, of course, we have to do what we can to find out behind it, so we have the right knowledge of what is happening in this area. But I think we should be careful not to be so pessimistic when we can look at a number of key figures that things are going in the right direction, including what I am almost fond of • that there is significantly lower crime among our young people. We must welcome this, while at the same time resolving the problems that remain.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133600	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we turn to questions to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133616	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: will the Minister be prepared to change the rules on cash benefits so that remuneration as a judge is not deducted from cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133633	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133634	Let me first state that I think it is important and also good that people take on the task of judge and that it is important for democracy that we have judges from all walks of life. Having said that, it does not change the fact that the cash benefits part is the lower financial safety net and that the principle is that you first have to live off your own money before there is talk of the municipality joining. That is why you also have to support yourself with the money you, among other things, have to support yourself. sheep to be a judge. There are also other professions such as jury, witness or member of the municipal council, where cash benefits are also offset. Basically, however, I believe that the cash assistance system, as we know it today, is characterised precisely by the fact that it helps people who cannot support themselves. I also know that the questioner has been concerned about whether transport costs are offset against cash benefits. I can say that I do not think it is reasonable for cash aid recipients who are judges to bear their own transport costs. I have therefore asked my officials about this and they state that the immediate view of the Ankestyrelsen is that there should be no deduction from the cash allowance for the transport allowance. If there are cash benefits recipients who have been deducted from the cash benefits for transport costs which they have been covered for being judges, I would actually urge them to complain to the Ankestyrelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133753	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133755	Thank you. That is a clear speech from the Minister, and it is also very good, but when we look at the situation with judges and I agree with the Minister that it should be the case that it is widely composed of all sections of society in Denmark, when it is a bourgeois ombud. It is a little remarkable that someone who participates as a judge is set off in cash benefits, but if you sit as an electionor in municipal elections, parliamentary elections, you are not counted against the cash allowance. It is also a bourgeois ombud. That is why there must be a certain level of equality. If you do not have to be offset for remuneration in connection with a civil tender in an election, is it reasonable that you should be set off against the cash benefits when you are appointed as a judge and have the costs thereby incurred? Moreover, in the example I have already mentioned to the Minister, it is precisely one who has driving costs to the court where he is to participate as a judge, but does not receive subsidies for driving from the municipality. It has been rejected by the municipality that he can recover his driving expenses, which means that when he is finished as a judge and has received the remuneration as a judge, he actually has a minus in his account because the expenses he has in relation to being a judge exceed what he receives in order to be a judge. When it is set off in the cash benefits, he has expenses, and I think that is quite unreasonable. He has handled the bourgeois ombud for which he has been appointed, and fits it. And as the Minister says, we must ensure that all aspects of society are covered here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210133955	Sir. Bent Bøgsted is right that there are places where we've excluded this. We ourselves, both parties, are part of the cash aid reform. I didn't have a share in it at the time, sir. Bent Bøgsted, and that's why this didn't come along, but there are examples I'd like to admit. I think it's a little different to be a judge. I don't think you can quite compare it to being the President-in-Office of the Council. Fortunately, it is not so often that, if so, it is like being a judge. I think that the principle that cash benefits are the lower safety net we have and that it is set off if you make money next door is an okay principle. May I say in concrete terms, and I think that I was very precise in my first answer that I think as Mr. Bent Bøgsted that you should not have a deficit on it, and that is why I said quite precisely that, after the consultation I had with my officials, I mean that when it comes to the driving allowance there, you have a good case. I would actually like to go so far as to urge you to turn to the Ankestyrelsen. I believe you have a good case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134059	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134100	Thank you. Is it to be understood that the Minister will take steps to ensure that local authorities ensure that driving allowances are paid to those taking part as magistrates? Because in this situation, the municipality has refused to cover the driving costs, and this may well be high driving costs. If you live in a place where there is no public transport and you somehow have to leave and have to rent a car or hire a taxi or whatever it is to get to the court, then it may well be a big expense, and if you don't get them covered, you have a big minus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134139	Now I'll be careful, because I'm not a complete expert on what driving is like when you're a judge. The way I understand it is that you get a driving allowance as a judge, and if the municipality then subtracts it from the cash benefits, that is what I think there is an unfairness. And if that relationship is valid, I actually think you should go to the Ankestyrelsen. But with the reservation that I am not an expert on it and have not fully prepared me to answer just how the driving costs are reimbursed, my answer is that if it is a refund that you get and it is then deducted from the cash benefits, then I think it is unfair, and then my specific recommendation is that you go to the Ankestyrelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134222	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134224	Thank you. Now, of course, I don't have to make myself aware of how this is going on in the municipality, but what I understand is that he doesn't get riding expenses covered. There is no coverage of driving costs. He is paid the remuneration he receives for being a judge. Finally, if it is the case that he still has to bear the cost of being a judge, is there any way that he can step out of that system at all? Because I understand from him that you can't. Once appointed a judge, you can't say no and you won't be in that system anymore. But will the Minister investigate whether there is any possibility of stepping out of that system at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134259	Minister for Employment
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134301	I would very much like to look into that. I don't want to answer here today because I'm not an expert on bourgeois ombuds. It is, of course, a duty that we have as citizens and what opportunities we have to renounce in relation to it, it would be unreasonable for me to start answering here today. But on a question from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, I would very much like to make sure that there is a quick answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134321	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs of Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134335	Thank you. I have put a question to the Minister because the Minister for Berlingske News Agency, in connection with the publication of the latest ghetto list, has stated that we have some areas with very great challenges. I could not agree more. If the Minister is of the opinion, then I am surprised that the Minister, at the last settlement, did not propose targeted ghetto measures to address these very major challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134406	Thank you. Now it is an old-fashioned political trick to make part of a statement and then not make the whole statement. I was actually delighted that, for the first time, it went the right way since these lists of particularly vulnerable residential areas began to be published, but it is still the case that we have particularly vulnerable residential areas in which there are great challenges; I think the citizens should have that. But on 28 November I concluded a very broad housing agreement with the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the SF on the use of the Landsbygningfunden funds. I have to say that this is a very good agreement, which ensures continued strong efforts in the vulnerable residential areas, and that this is not least a broad-based agreement that all the parliamentary parties minus the Left and the Liberal Alliance are involved in, and of course has also put their mark on, and then it is a four-year agreement. I think it is important, when we talk about vulnerable residential areas, that you can see it as going on, by having a strong consensus on what should happen in these areas. So the time horizon and the broad conciliation circle ensure a high priority and a very stable effort so that the exposed general housing areas can become attractive alternatives to settlements elsewhere in the general or private housing market. In the housing agreement we have also secured 465 million. kr. per year for 4 years for housing social interventions in vulnerable residential areas, and up to half of the money can go for rent reductions. The housing social funds are combined with renovations for 18 billion. kr. in the period 2015-2020 and infrastructure changes for 940 million; kr. helping to strengthen the competitiveness of general residential areas. The housing social funds and, to a large extent, the renovation funds are targeted at the vulnerable residential areas, and the infrastructure pool is initially targeted at the particularly vulnerable residential areas. As a new feature of the housing agreement, the residential areas which are on the brink of becoming particularly vulnerable are also included, and this is not an indication of a lack of priority, but an expression of a special priority in relation to the vulnerable residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134606	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134608	Well, then, I would like to say that we are delighted that the Minister chooses to continue the initiatives that we now recognise that there are very great challenges in these ghetto areas, so I would like to go further and say: well, we want to get rid of this more, and that is why we want to go in and give some new tools. Why has the Minister not given any new tools at all to the housing companies that are the places that go on the ghetto list? Why has the Minister not given them some new tools when the Minister has just emptied the entire Landsbygningsfonden up to 2032 and then does not even come up with any measures that should help to avoid this ghettoisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134702	I have to say that I think this is a strange discussion and perhaps it reminds me a little that the Left thinks the redberries are a little angry. We have a new housing agreement which, after several weeks of negotiations, the Left has chosen to remain outside. The left chose to take the hammock rather than take responsibility. Left insisted that they would only make a 1-year-old or max. Two-year housing contract for some much smaller amounts for the vulnerable residential areas than the ones we ended up agreeing on in the conciliation circle. So I certainly do not think it is an appropriate response to the serious problems we face in the vulnerable residential areas to make such short agreements without a long timescale. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm knows very well that both the housing social initiatives and the overall and renovation plans run for quite a number of years. So I think it sounds a little hollow when the Left criticises the fact that the particularly vulnerable housing areas are not given priority in the housing agreement. Fortunately, however, we now have a housing agreement with which many billions of dollars have been set aside for the holistic efforts in the vulnerable residential areas for the next four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134755	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134756	I must admit that I am very disappointed that such an important political issue as the problems in the ghetto regions is being used to make political jokes. I simply do not think that is appropriate. I wonder how it can be that no new initiatives have been put in place, some new tools to ensure that we can get out of the ghetto list better, that we stop having problems, i.e. these very major challenges that the Minister admits there are in these areas. But the Minister spends all his speaking time on political teasing. I would like a concrete answer. Why have no specific tools been provided to help these housing companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134834	Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134836	I have to say that, no matter what Mrs Louise Schack Elholm says, it is not political teasing. The left chose to be outside a housing agreement. For max. One or two years would be set almost well and well 11⁄2 billion. kr. off. Here we have set 18 billion. kr. off. So this really is an expression of a lack of responsibility, and it is an expression of the fact that you yourself want to tease and do not want to take responsibility for our vulnerable residential areas. But let me now say that the resources of the Landsbygningsfonden are of course a hard priority in creating safe and general housing areas, and that is because I believe that security is absolutely fundamental to people's quality of life and no one will settle in a place of insecurity. That is why I am also pleased that this housing agreement gives priority to security, as opposed to the last agreement that the Left made in the area of housing welfare. In relation to the infrastructure pool and the renovation framework and the housing social efforts, security is the highest priority in all areas. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm knows that too, because she has read the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134931	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann who is the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210134934	Thank you. It is actually a little strange to sit here and follow the debate, because once again it is symptomatic of the current government to spend time criticising the Left instead of delivering the good answers itself. And that's why I'm here today. It's actually to get the good answers from the government representative here, the minister for town, housing and rural areas. If we take a exposed residential area like Vollsmose, I think it is really pleasing that you have decided to strengthen the infrastructure to tear down a building and build a road through Vollsmose. I would like to acknowledge that. But that does not solve the problem of the very existence of a parallel society in Vollsmose. If you look at the statistics from the government's ghetto list, you can see that 67.1%. of the inhabitants have a non-Western background and that 3.23 per cent. of the residents are doomed. So it is a very parallel society. And I would like to ask the Minister: how do we solve the problem of parallel societies in Vollsmose?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135049	Now I explained that security will be the most important theme, both in terms of renovating, so as to ensure that dark paths are avoided, and that criminal prevention is taken into account, but also in relation to housing social efforts, where an action plan is now also to be drawn up on what happens if there is a disturbance. At the same time, we are also doing so in relation to the infrastructure problem, which is a priority for security. And then may we not be allowed to rejoice at the efforts the government has made over the last three years, which have meant • contrary to what happened under the previous government • that crime has fallen all over the country, including in the vulnerable residential areas. Last year, crime fell by almost 13 per cent, and in most of the 34 residential areas now being measured by the National Police, crime is lower or similar to the national average. It shows that we are on the right track. For the first time in many years, things are going the right way. And there are, in fact, seven residential areas which have gone off the list of particularly vulnerable residential areas and which have fallen below the threshold for the number of people sentenced. So we actually do a lot of things. But at least I take a strong stand against parallel societies. We must then correct this, also in relation to the poor performance that was made in the last ten years before we came to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135159	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135201	Well, there is no doubt that I share the Minister's ambition that there should be security for all citizens of Denmark wherever you live. It has to be said that this is not quite the case in the ghetto regions. After all, the government has changed the criteria for when to be on a list. And you can say that if you look through the list, you can see that even with the modified criteria, there would be more areas that would still be on the list if you took the old criteria. This means that the inhabitants of the areas are still largely descendants of non-western, non-western countries, they are not closely associated with the labour market and the areas have a high concentration of criminals. So I would just like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that real progress has been made in those areas, or is the reason why they have gone off the ghetto list, in fact, just that they have messed with the criteria a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135258	Now I understand that we need to talk about the criteria in the next question, but I would like to say that things are going the right way. In fact, there are two areas less in the most recent inventory than there were before, 31 compared to 33 earlier. I think it is positive, but of course we can all hope that things will go even faster, and I would like to admit that I do. I am also pleased that we have reached a broad housing agreement. But I can hear from the Left's approach here why they are not in it. They don't want to make long-term bets. Two-year contracts with 1.5 billion. kr. Compared to the 18 billion. kr., we dropped off. And I would like to say that the challenges we face require more than such short amounts of money. I would therefore like to say that the criteria reflected in the list also reflect the challenges facing vulnerable housing areas in terms of security, employment, integration, income and very short education. There, of course, we as a society must take action, but when both crime and the number of particularly vulnerable residential areas fall, we are getting on the right track for the first time since the list began to be drawn up. I think Mrs Jane Heitmann should also be pleased about this. And then, of course, we need to step up our efforts with what we know to work, which is why we have also made a toolbox in this area, cooperation agreements with the six largest municipalities in the country on how we are going to tackle this issue in a targeted manner, and a police effort has been made with the SUB areas, where it now seems to be working in relation to crime as well. In fact, as a Left Member, this should be welcomed rather than being so pissed off that you did not come into a housing agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135425	Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for the final round of this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135430	Thank you. I have to say that this is deeply disappointing. The Minister does not specifically answer the questions, but chooses to throw mud instead. So let me just make it clear why the Left isn't in this home settlement. But it is not the Left, because the Left does not think that there was any ambitious approach to the ghettos that could justify a four-year agreement. The Left took up the Minister's presentation in relation to the economy, and I am therefore very surprised that the Minister did not think it was a sensible level. The only requirement we made was that it was a two-year agreement. I would say to these tools that I am still really sorry that the Minister does not have any new tools for the ghettos in this housing agreement, and that is exactly what we were worried about, and that is why we criticised the fact that it should be so long an agreement, because we believe that something needs to be done. But I have to give up getting an answer, I think, from the Minister, to why it is that the minister has not made any new ghetto measures. It must be either because the Minister has not been visionary enough, or because the Minister does not think there are any serious problems in these ghetto regions, because the Minister will certainly not answer that question. After all, the minister only throws mud every time I ask why no new tools have been provided to help housing associations get rid of these ghetto problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135544	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135546	In fact, I think it is the case that all parties in the Folketing think it is really important that we break up these particularly vulnerable residential areas and make a special effort to reduce crime and that we get fewer people on the list of these particularly vulnerable residential areas. But we have discussed this. I would like to say that I believe that with this broad agreement we have made a continuation of the good work that was also done under the previous government in some of the areas where we are now putting in extra with security, which will be the main element. The whole plan will be followed once a year. We are now saying that we must also break the negative social legacy. These are new points in relation to what was stated in the previous housing contract. So I really think it is disconcerting to me that the Left is trying to launch itself as a very responsible party when it only wants to make a two-year agreement. The previous government actually played out with a four-year agreement, which we have then improved along with a number of parties. But the Left wouldn't be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135643	The question is closed. The next question to the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs is also by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135653	The next question, as the Minister himself mentioned, is more about the very criteria of the ghetto list: does the Minister believe that it is appropriate, as far as the preparation of the ghetto list is concerned, that the criterion of crime has been changed from a 4-year-old to a 2-year-old average? That is what the minister did very shortly ago so that the ghetto list has become more sensitive to the kind of small fluctuations referred to in the article "Therefore the increase was tampered with by the ghetto list" from Vejle Amts Folkeblad? That article says that it is because two criminals have moved out of the neighborhood that the Løget has gone off the ghetto list.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135730	Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135732	I certainly believe that the new way of determining the particularly vulnerable residential areas actually gives us a better opportunity to identify the problems that exist in the vulnerable residential areas. With the new inventory method, we have supplemented the three previous criteria with two new criteria: education and income. At the same time, we changed the inventory of non-labour market residents and the proportion of sentenced people from four-year-old to two-year-old averages. The aim of switching to two-year averages was to speed up the recording of changes in the area. In this way, we focus more on the current situation in the particularly vulnerable residential areas. It was in fact the case with the previous criteria that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's party helped to make, i.e. the four-year criteria, that the list was based on figures up to five years old. In my view, this was not sustainable. After all, the criteria are a kind of temperature measurements of the areas, and it is now the case that if you want to know whether the patient needs treatment right now, then it is of no use to base oneself on a treatment that is up to 5 years old and an old temperature measurement that does not work. So it is with both municipalities and housing organisations and the government and the police that we are making an extra effort to get more people into work, to reduce crime. And that is the new thing, namely that we can actually see that there are more people in our vulnerable residential areas who now also have a link with the labour market. So it's important that this bet can be read in the numbers. When it starts to go better in an area, it should also be possible to see fairly quickly the consequences of it on the location of the area on the list. And, of course, if developments go the other way, we must also be able to see it, and that must be reflected in the figures. It was, moreover, at the request of a large number of housing organizations and municipalities that we changed from four-year-old to two-year-old criteria in these two areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135911	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210135913	So the minister thinks it's a good thing if now I don't know why the two have moved out of the area... the two had gone to jail for some rape and come back in a year, that then comes Løget at once more. These fluctuations, i.e. small changes that happen, mean that an area goes off and on the list in time and early. The Minister thinks this is a good thing, because then you can see some quick changes. But can it not also be a disadvantage because you cannot make the long, tough move because you are sensitive to some small movements? It may also be that they may have moved to rehousing, because you are in the process of some renovation in Løget. I do not know, but in any case it must be a challenge, at least it is pointed out even from the housing organisation, that you are sensitive to two residents moving out of the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140003	I would say that it is natural for a list of particularly vulnerable residential areas to become more sensitive to fluctuations in the number of sentenced people, for example, when you go from a 4-year average to a 2-year-old, but it was based on as many as five-year-old figures. In other words, the housing associations said that we have now, in cooperation with the police, made a huge effort in relation to the crime prevention effort, but we cannot read it from the figures. It was not appropriate, and it was also a wish of the housing organizations and of the municipalities that we should change it. But when one is based on objective criteria, one cannot avoid that minor changes in criteria values, i.e. the limits, can mean, when one is close to the border, that one goes in or out of the list, but it was a desire to reflect more topicality and reflect the good work one does around.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140049	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140051	This change in the ghetto criteria has also had an impact on what some areas are on the ghetto list. For example: Aldersrogade in Copenhagen is off the list, despite 73 per cent. of the inhabitants have a different background from Western or are descendants of it and that they are also above the limit of the number of convicted. This means that according to the normal rules I do not of course know what the 4-year average is for doomed from the time before the Minister changed it, Aldersrogade would have gone on the ghetto list because there would be a great risk of parallel societies when you have 73 per cent. with a non-Western background, and you have such a large share of criminals. Instead, an area like Priest Bakken, Syrenparken in Esbjerg, is on the list. Here's 35%. residents who have no Western background. That may surprise me, because normally when I think about what a ghetto is, it is a matter of a place where there are parallel societies and where there is insecurity, and I would be much more worried about Aldersrogade than I would be about Priest Bakken and Syrenparken in Esbjerg just like that. Does the Minister consider that it is a comprehensive picture that Aldersrogade with more than 70%. with a non-western background has come off the list, while an area such as Priest Bakken in Esbjerg with just less than a third has been added to the list?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140218	Thank you. Now I will not judge what Mrs Louise Schack Elholm thinks is worst in one way or another. I would like to say that if you have areas with very, very low education rates and only primary education, then that indicates that there are some huge challenges in the area, because Mrs Louise Schack Elholm probably knows as well as I do that if you have to cope with the Danish labour market, you have to have an education. Fortunately, the young people are going the right way. In relation to income, if there are very low incomes in the area and you live on transfer income, it also provides a breeding ground for black economy, gang crime, etc. So that's why we brought it. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is trying to define ethnicity or the number of sentenced people as the only decisive thing. That is not true, because there are plenty of other parameters that need to be included. We think, of course, that the criteria we have drawn up, where, unfortunately, the Left would not be included, reflect the greater the challenges faced in the vulnerable residential areas, and that is where I think they are really being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140313	Then it is Mrs Fatma Øktem as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140318	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister something. I have read the Minister's statement to Danmarks Radio that with the criteria there are, you are breaking the curve in the ghetto area. I would like to ask the Minister: when you choose to make such a fragile set of criteria for the definition of when something is ghetto or not, by making a change from a 4-year-old to a 2-year-old average, the Minister will not reply to the fact that, for the sake of my colleague's question, two people or a single person can actually decide whether you are on the list or not on the list. Is that breaking the basket? I think it is very irresponsible that one day you can get off the list and then you can go back on the list three months later. Will the Minister not answer whether that is correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140419	In fact, as I have also said to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, we wanted two-year criteria, because we can then better reflect the efforts that have been made, rather than, as in the previous list made by Mrs Fatma Øktem's party, having been able to go up to five years before we could see whether the effort that was made worked. It is in fact the case that two-year criteria and the extension of education and income give a much more accurate picture of these vulnerable residential areas. I would like to say that when I said it went the right way, it was also because we can see it. Both in relation to the number of people sentenced, what I explained in the last question • crime has actually fallen very much also in our vulnerable residential areas • but also because we can see that more and more people are getting involved in the labour market. I think we should be pleased about this rather than hanging ourselves in a triviality about certain limit values. Because when you make limit values, it will always be the case that some will lie inside or outside. However, we must welcome the fact that the special effort that can be made when you are on this list of particularly vulnerable residential areas lasts five years after you have been on the list. So it is not the case that the opportunities that have been offered for preventive action simply disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140520	It's Mrs. Fatma Øktem again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140523	I assume that the answer means that the list can actually be changed by the fact that two or three people have moved, if the crime criterion is what it is all about. So you can get off the list and put it back on the basis of a few minor changes. Something else which the Minister mentioned a great deal earlier and which I hope it is okay to take up here is that security is fundamental. That is clearly what we in the Left think, and we are delighted every time some people get to work. I should also like to emphasise this point. Because we believe that work must be worthwhile at all times. So we will be pleased every time there are some who go from passive support to employment. When security is paramount, as the Minister said several times to among others. My colleague Jane Heitmann, does the Minister think that these criteria help to create greater security? Because in Bispehaven, I know there's no great security. I would like to ask whether the Minister has any special tools to help create greater security.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140634	Now I thought it was the criteria for the designation of special residential areas that we were dealing with now because there was an opportunity to listen before. Mrs Fatma Øktem may not have heard what I said about the security effort. After all, we say that in all areas where we put in and give money from the Landsbygningsfonden in cooperation and with a broad agreement, in which I am delighted that the entire Folketing, both sides of the Folketing, is represented except the Left and the Liberal Alliance, we put security on the agenda. May I not say, on the specific criteria here, that when the decline in the number of particularly vulnerable residential areas emerges so clearly with the changed method of inventory, it seems that we have had the curve broken. We can actually see that things are going the right way in many places. In fact, things are improving in several of the vulnerable residential areas, and this is due, among other things, to: government policy, including our economic policy. So I agree with Mrs Fatma Øktem that we should welcome the fact that more people are going to work and that fewer people are being convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140725	Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140728	I have to say that it is disappointing, but it is not surprising that I believe that this government has watered down the ghetto list in this way, so that you get the result you want, namely fewer ghettos, but it is only because you have watered down the criteria. In addition, a settlement has been made where there are no measures to deal with the ghetto problems that exist. I think that the government is underestimating the problems in the ghettos, the security problems there are, and I think we should do something to solve these problems instead of watering down such a thing as the ghetto criteria, which means that it does not really matter whether there are parallel societies or whether there are many criminals in a residential area. I must admit that it is whether there is insecurity, whether there are parallel societies that I use to define a ghetto area, not whether people have received education or whether they are unemployed. Education can be a means of helping them further, and unemployment is not the reason why it is an insecure area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140817	Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140819	May I not say that, compared with the two-year average that we have now made, there was a considerable built-in sluggishness in the four-year statement, which went back as long as five years. I have not heard the Left say that they want the four-year criteria back, which in fact meant that the actual situation in the areas was very different from what the figures showed. That's how it works when you're based on numbers that are up to 5 years old. That is why we have chosen to go from four-year-old to two-year-old criteria. So may I not say that I am really more disappointed that the Left, as Parliament's largest party, chooses not to take responsibility for such a central part of Danish society. I'm disappointed in that. I am disappointed that only two-year agreements will be made, but fortunately there was a broad circle in the Folketing, a very broad majority who would take responsibility for continuing the strong efforts we have made over the last three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140905	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. The next question is to the Minister for Education by Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140918	The question is: what is the Minister's view that social sciences take up so much in general secondary schools after the reform of secondary school in 2005, while at the same time it has proved easier to pass in this subject than in other more hard subjects such as mathematics, physics and German?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140933	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210140935	It is true that social sciences take up a lot after the 2005 reform. If we look at the figures from 2014, we see that 27.3%. of the students had social studies at A level in the course of study and 27.8 percent of the students had social studies at B level in the course of study. But if we look at the subject of mathematics, we see that it also takes up a lot in the secondary school reform after 2005. And again, if we look at the figures from this year, we see that there were 27.6 percent who had mathematics at A level, and there were actually 37.1 percent who had mathematics at B level. So it is two major subjects that take up both social sciences and mathematics, but it is also true that there is a great difference between dumping rates. This is something that we are concerned about in the government and that we are going to discuss in the high school circle. Just briefly, because there is a possibility of several rounds: we simply want to go through the subjects, we want to look at the assessment criteria, we want to look at the professionalism of them, and we want to make an analysis of whether there is a uniform professional quality in the subjects, because of course it should not be the case that there is a difference in the way we can look at some of the figures there are. So it will be part of the discussions on the government's high school initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141041	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141042	Thank you. I am glad that you want to do so, and I would say that the question has been asked here before we had the game where it has been mentioned that many of these things will be done. With regard to the figures, let me add that today there are 61 per cent. This is an increase of 22 percentage points since the secondary school reform. There are indications that it is a high priority or a highly desired subject. And when you look at the dumping rates and the grades, you can understand it, and you can really be afraid that it is a cuckoo-young subject that pushes some other subjects away. It can be seen that German has fallen very sharply and French has fallen. Mathematics A and physics A have also fallen. So those really fucking hard subjects have fallen, while a softer subject like social science has gone forward. And when you look at the dumping rates and grades, which are so radically different from the hard subjects, you can understand why they do it, and you can fear that some people are doing it as a strategy to get some high grades. And if they lack physics, mathematics or German, they take it in supplementary courses, as you can do during a summer holiday, and it does not relate to the overall exam result. This means that you have access to the good and sought-after studies, and you have thus avoided having the difficult subjects to weigh heavily on the diploma. It is very expensive for society, but it is of course also not good for Denmark that the sharpest brains use their brains to perhaps find an easy way to university instead of finding the way where they are actually enriched with some really tough and strong subjects. That is why I have chosen to keep the issue in this Chamber, because I would like to be absolutely sure that the Minister will have emphasised that this is really a point and something that we need to look at very seriously in the forthcoming negotiations on high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141246	Then I would like to confirm here that we are concerned about exactly the same issue, namely that there must be a uniform level of professional gravity in the various subjects, and we are embarking on an analysis. Now we have to agree in the upper secondary school circle on what we do in relation to upper secondary education. But it is also in other parts, that is to say, to reduce the number of courses, so that we are sure that they have two A-level subjects as a starting point, i.e. they have two A-level subjects. at a high level, plus a B level or a C level. So there is also a professional tightening up in the individual courses of study in relation to what we have proposed. It is also something that comes, by the way, among other things. German for the benefit, but also the other foreign languages, because there will be more courses of study where foreign languages must be taken at the continuing level, and thus German at the A level will also be strengthened by it. So we have a look at exactly the same concern that the questioner has and I look forward to discussing it in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141336	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141337	Thank you. In any case, there is reason to associate social sciences with some difficult subjects, so you are absolutely certain that they do not do it as an easy shortcut. You really have to think about how to do that. If one maintains the possibility that one level can be raised to another as it is today, one will still be able to risk them being able to use it as a shortcut, and I would warn against that very much. At the same time, however, I would like to say that these studies of dumping rates have also shown that a subject such as biology also proves to be easier to go to. It is a subject which one wants to prioritise in the government's proposal. So there too I think there is reason to be vigilant.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141424	That is also why what we are going to do first is look at the five subjects where we can see that there is the most difference, and then we will do an analysis of professionalism in relation to them, i.e. also on the basis of the dumping rates. But we will then look through all the subjects on the basis of it, because of course it should not be the case that some people think that there are some easy shortcuts. We can also see that a lot of people choose upper secondary education, not least in mathematics B and natural science, and that is why we propose it in what is the government's proposal in several courses of study. But it still has to be so and I think it is important to stress that you should also be able to choose some really good professional and linguistic packages. It will then be with either three or four foreign languages, and for them to have the time at all to get the professional gravity and immersion, there will not be the same requirement for mathematics and natural sciences. I also sense now that there is an agreement that there must also be an opportunity at a really high level of professionalism to be able to have some linguistic studies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141517	Mrs. Marie Krarup, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141519	We can only agree that it is extremely important to make some professional packages where there really is synergy and high professional level. When you talk about a uniform professional level in all subjects, I can be a little concerned that you can get the idea that, instead of raising the bar in, for example, the bar. social sciences and biology begin to lower the bar in mathematics and physics and German, where you can see that you have the very high flunks. It is extremely important that we maintain high professional quality in high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141551	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141553	What we are looking at in connection with the subject of biology is that young people who choose biology at A level have the idea that it then gives access to biology at the university, which one can understand, but it does not have the professional gravity to do so in isolation with biology at A level, which is why we are going to look at among other things. the course so that it actually gives access to the university. So it's a professional tightening-up. On the other hand, we can see that the experiment on biotechnology, which contains the professional level required for a number of scientific training courses, has fortunately been well sought, and it will not now be an attempt, but a permanent opportunity, to offer in high schools in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141631	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Education. The next question is to the Minister for Health and the Prevention of Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141643	Thank you. If the Minister shares the view expressed by Ulla Astman of the Social Democratic Party, chairman of the Health Committee in the Danish Regions, in relation to the government's reservation of 50 million. kr. to overcrowded hospital wards in 2015, and I quote: "If you think it gives finances to more beds, I'll have to call in the house. For bedrooms in a 24-hour hospital, both nurses and doctors and the physical space for beds are required. ▪ Ulla Astman says so to Ritzau on 11 November 2014. And does the Minister believe that the funds are sufficient to put an end to, for example. Overcrowding rates of 175,9 and 131,8, respectively, which have been shown by the press in relation to Svendborg Hospital during 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141732	Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141736	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141738	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141742	Thank you. That was a clear answer. Before the 2011 elections, the Social Democrats and the SF promised to add 1 billion. kr. annual to combat overcrowding. S and SF wrote in their joint health issue, "Security about health" that one will fight the overlay with a boost of the medical area by 1 billion. kr. For more beds it means that 1 billion. kr. had to make sure that no patients were to lie on the hallways every year. I would just like to ask the Minister here: I hope he can reply just as accurately and briefly: when will the billion be added?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141817	There we probably have some of the core of the Left's attack manual, in which the Left leads: Lifts: No beds in the corridors of the medical wards. Reality: Still patients on the hallways and no initiatives other than an analysis of the need for more beds. It's just like so much else in the attack manual, it's all bullshit. With the Finance Act, 750 million has been set aside. kr. The better it will be, the better it will be, the better it will be, 1.5 billion. kr. The new hospital structure, which will also help with the problem, will add 41.4 billion. kr. A total of 950 million has been set aside for the last three years. kr. off. So it has to be said that we are ample in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141858	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210141859	Minister, I think it is so sad and incredible, and I have actually just told the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs, and so symptomatic of the Red Government that the only thing that can be brought about is an attack on the Left. Imagine, here you give the Minister the opportunity to tell us what the government wants and which way the government will go, and then the Minister spends his time criticizing the Left. Is it because you really have nothing to do with it? I asked the Minister earlier when the billion kroner will be added, and then the Minister will give us a long list of how some of the overcrowding that we have seen may be and in part can be accommodated. But when will the billion kroner promised in his own health proposal to combat overcrowding by lifting the medical area to more beds be written by the Minister's own party? I'm trying to ask you again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142003	But then I will have to answer the same question again, because the questioner obviously has not listened to what I have answered in the first place. Now I say it a little slower, maybe it'll seep in. The Finance Act does not provide, as stated in the question, 50 million. kr. A total of 725 million has been set aside. kr. over the coming years to strengthen efforts against overcrowding yes or no? Yeah. With the health strategy the sooner the better it will be paid out 1.5 billion. kr., such as: should be used to reduce the number of acute admissions and rehousing of COPD and diabetes patients by more than 20%. Does that help? Yeah. With the new hospital structure, money has been set aside so that we can create a structure to ensure that we get a much, much better patient flow, and finally, with the economic agreements, 950 million have been set aside. kr. So when the questioner explicitly asks whether money has been dropped off, she just has to do her homework so she can see: yes, that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142102	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Thranum as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142109	Thank you for the Minister's reply to the questioner. I tried to listen, and then we'll see if I got it right. In any case, I would like to ask: then it is not correct when I think that only 50 million have been set aside. kr. in 2015, 100 million. kr. in 2016 and 150 million; kr. in 2017 in order to solve this problem of overcapacity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142142	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142145	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142149	I can then wonder where we have these figures from, but it is only gratifying if the Minister thinks that in this context substantial more money has been allocated. In other words, the Minister is not at all concerned about the problems of heavy overcrowding around our hospitals, which are of course causing some problems and which have not been resolved. When does the Minister imagine that these problems have been resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142213	But that's when you look at the Left Health Act in the Finance Act, you see there's nothing. There's money for cancer treatment, yes, and then there's money for the private hospitals. But general health care has to pay 460 million. kr. in savings to finance the Left's gift region for the private hospitals in the health field. Does the questioner think that it causes more or less overlays?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142249	Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142254	I would like to start by saying that I think the Minister has a really boring attitude. I am actually surprised that the President of the Folketing does not stand up and speaks in the way the Minister speaks to members of the Folketing. I think it is disgraceful that you should listen to something leaking in. In fact, I think so, and I am surprised that the Minister speaks to other people in this way. Having said that, I would just like to ask nicely and properly that I hope, in a good tone, that now it is not only Ulla Astman who has questioned the government's priorities, the president of the regions, Bent Hansen, has actually stated that the 50 million. DKK set aside for 2015, is not enough to solve the problem. Health economist Bent Møller Hansen has said, and I quote, that it proposes as a tailor in hell, and the chairman of the Medical Association, Mads Henrik Koch Hansen, has called the amount symbolic, and one can understand that. Now I would just like to ask the Minister, in all remembrance, if he can confirm that the 50 million. kr., reserved in 2015, only reaches 100 nurses at national level.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142359	Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142401	I think the boring thing here is not how things are said. I think that the boring thing is what is said, that the Left, against better knowledge, is pulling out figures that are not linked to what is the government's actual policy, that we must continue to wander around the Left's attack manual with claims and figures that are detached from the reality there is. It may be that the questioner feels offended that things are being said straight out of the bag. I feel offended that you keep making numbers that you know aren't true. We stand in this Chamber and allow ourselves to continue to make figures which we know are not true. I find that shameful.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142446	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Health and Prevention. The President shall not receive any criticism of his or her chair. The next question is to the Minister for Industry and Growth by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142505	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: On the occasion that it is now more than 1 year since the storm river Bodil hit Denmark and many families became homeless, many of which still live in containers, vans etc. and must expect another winter in these primitive living conditions, and that these families and others have not yet been clarified by insurance companies and the Storm Council on their situation, will the Minister state his opinion on whether this is a decent way in which society treats citizens who, without their own fault, have fallen victim to a natural disaster?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142538	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142540	It is the case that the period between the storm flood hit in December 2013 and now has been marked by significant changes in the regulatory framework in this area. A broad majority in the Folketing has significantly expanded the coverage of the scheme and introduced a cap on the self-risk. In this way, the victims have been given the opportunity to recover the costs of resettlement and to obtain compensation which is considerably higher than under the old rules. The rule change is a clear advantage for the injured parties, but has also meant that the proceedings have been extended, as many cases have had to be dealt with several times. The storm in December 2013 caused the second highest number of reported damage in the history of the scheme, and it is only a small residual group where the case has not yet been finally settled by the companies. It is therefore only approx. 6%, corresponding to 179 of the cases notified, which lack a final decision. Almost 2,800 cases have therefore already been settled. Part of the outstanding cases are actually settled and awaits only the reporting of variable costs, such as electricity consumption. Against this background, the Council's secretariat estimates that it is actually under 3%. of the cases notified, i.e. Approx. 90 cases in which no decision has been taken on the determination of claims. The remaining cases are complex or extensive, or there is another good explanation why they have not yet been finally settled. These may, for example, be cases where mold has subsequently been discovered in the house and where the repair process and hence the processing process take longer, which all other things are equally beneficial to the victim. The Council Secretariat is in continuous dialogue with insurance companies on the unfinished business in order to speed up the process. And Insurance & Pension has urged that if the victim believes that the insurance company is stalling, then you can contact Insurance & Pension so that they can look into the matter again. It is also important to be aware that in many places the repairs to individual homes are in full swing, but the work takes a long time. For those cases, the question of the amount of compensation has been settled by the insurance companies, and now only the craftsmen have yet to complete. In conclusion, it is important to say that we must bear in mind that all procedures are and have always been dependent on the agreement of two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142807	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210142808	This is probably one reality that the Minister describes here. But many of the storm - flooded, and many of them, are experiencing another reality. I would like to emphasise this point. We have seen over the past year that insurance companies are making every effort to help those affected by the storm, but there are indeed insurance companies that are not doing so. There are some who have made a really honest effort. That is, for example, the case. Safe and Alka. And then there are a lot of insurance companies that haven't made this effort. It is a little strange that under the same conditions, under the same law, the same amendment of the law that has happened, there are some companies that can find out, and then there are others who falter with things and drag it out. That is very unsatisfactory for those who suffer. After all, many of the citizens concerned are still waiting for the insurance company to deal with their case so that they can cover their financial costs by the storm. The financial cover that insurance companies have not yet helped all citizens with must even be provided for money that is not the insurance companies' own money, but is money that has been paid up by all fire insurers in Denmark, not to insurance companies, but to this fund, which then has to cover the costs. So it is neither tax dollars we are talking about nor the insurance companies' crowns. It's a quite third dollar paid by the fire-insurers. Some insurance companies leave their customers in the lurch and lock them in the way that they hit citizens in a totally unsustainable situation. Today there are still many insured persons whose situation is thus unresolved. This means that there are many who have great personal aftereffects of this, and this applies to both the individual and the individual's family. I would like to ask whether, on the basis of what the Minister has said, the Minister will take further action against the Storm Council and the insurance companies in order to enable them to clarify the remaining cases quickly. It is quite untenable now that we are facing winter, that people have to live in vans, containers, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143025	Now I tried to answer nicely and properly, on the basis of what I get from the information, explain how many cases are unfinished and explain how many are really left. That is why I am not here acting with a different view of reality than all sorts of others. I am acting with the real perception of reality, which means that I am being told what the actual figures are against this background. And that is that we have 90 cases left out of over 3,000 after a year, on the basis that we have made as many legislative changes as we have made, and also the consideration that we have to respect sometimes that people can come back and say: Hey, we have actually found that mold has also been added. I don't think it's alarmingly many we have left. It is, of course, terrible for the people who suffer, but it is not alarming for many. So I do not think it is an expression of the fact that insurance companies as such have not done their job. In fact, I think they have done so to a great extent here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143122	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143124	It may be that it is not alarmingly many. And we're not gonna fight over the number, because it's kind of secondary to this. What this is all about is that those who actually remain have been waiting for more than a year now, and so they must have as good treatment as those who could get their case done quite quickly with flexibility on the part of the insurance companies and the Storm Council. If the figure is 90, it may not be alarmingly many, but it is at least alarming for those who are actually left, because they live in the situation that they do not know where they stand. That is why they need urgent clarification. Their psyche suffers, and we know from experts that this is a great psychological strain. So once again: will the Minister not really get to grips with the insurance companies and the Storm Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143211	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143212	I will do so, but I also hope that the questioner will slowly recognise that the problem is not all-over-shadowing and all-encompassing. In fact, a lot has been done to get rid of all these cases, and we now have the last 90 left. I said in my reply that Insurance & Pension has said that there are some places where you find that the reason why you don't really finish this case is that the insurance companies are murmuring, so you have to contact them. Then they will personally, all the leaders in there, get to grips with it and ensure that the matter is speeded up. But in some places it is just the case that if you have some craftsmen who haven't finished, or if you've suddenly found mold like that afterwards, then they can't finish things so quickly. That's why we have some of these last cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143302	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143304	I am glad that the Minister here, in public, says: just come to us if someone is not being treated properly or quickly enough, because it is incredibly important that people have that opportunity. It is not certain that everyone has been aware of that, I do not know anything about that. But it still puzzles me a lot, based on the people I talk to, the ones I get email from, and the ones I'm contacted by the fact that it's only 90. We're not gonna fight about that. As I said, whether it is 90 or 120 is a minor matter, but we can clarify that through a written question to the Minister. Then we can clarify how many there are, where they are, how much time there is left and things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143354	I would very much like to answer written questions. Finally, in relation to how much time remains: I had a recent meeting with the insurance industry, where I asked: How quickly can you do this? When do you expect it to be finished? Does it take two months, three months, six months? Then they say that if it were up to them, they'd do it fast. The problem is sometimes that there is no agreement, for example about the amount of compensation, or that there is an opportunity to object where there is a dispute about some of the things, that new things have arisen or that the craftsmen have not finished building or anything else. That's why it's dragging on a little bit. So they can't quite give some answer to it. But I would urge you to either contact Insurance & Pension or me if you think it's going too slowly and you want it to be done a little faster finally if there's something we can help you with. We will only be happy to help if there are some citizens in trouble here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143441	So is Question No 1 by Mr McMillan-Scott. 10 completed, and I would like to thank the Minister for Industry and Growth. Sir. However, Flemming Damgaard Larsen will be here for a moment, because he also has questions for the Minister of Transport, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143452	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143456	Thank you for that, President. The question is: what is the Minister's position on the fact that Hvalsø and Lejre Stationer will not have an improved stopping pattern after the northwest railway has been extended by double track for 1.3 billion? kr. Between Lejre and Vipperød?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143514	Thank you for the question. In connection with the new 2015 roadmap, passengers from Lejre and Hvalsø will experience improvements. There will be trains every half hour for a longer period than before, there will be shorter travel time, and there will also be more seats. But in general, it is the case that driving planning is always a balance between faster travel times and higher frequency, i.e. more departures. If you want public transport well, you must not forget the faster travel times in the great travel flows. We have plenty of experience with that. The latest is from the establishment of a regional lightning train system between Herning and Aarhus, and this has led to an estimated passenger increase of approx. 10% within 3 years. I mean, the train will obviously be more attractive to more people when travel time is shorter. The Ministry of Transport has estimated that it will involve a total net loss of time to stop all trains on the northwest track at all stations of almost 180,000 hours a year. If stopping alone in Hvalsø and Lejre, it will be a loss of 31,000 hours a year. The passengers passing through here must also be taken into account, and that is what DSB is trying to do in the upcoming road map when DSB deploys a train that does not stop between Roskilde and Holbæk. As the owner of DSB, I have an obligation to let the company look at the whole thing when drawing up timetables, which is why all wishes cannot always be taken into account equally well. However, the prerequisite for the roadmap can be changed, and I therefore believe that it would be natural for DSB to keep a constant focus on whether the roadmap on the Northwest Railway contains the right balance between continuous and stopping trains across the commuter towns along the route. Overall, I expect that the new double track, in combination with DSB's new roadmap, will bring improvements for all passengers on the northwest track, including in Hvalsø and Lejre.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143723	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143724	Thank you for your answer. Now it was the case that the development of the North-West railway took place with the intention of increasing the capacity and speed of travel on the West Railway, so as to create the basis for more train departures, better timetables and reduced travel time. Thus, when the bill was adopted, the commuters were expected to improve the operation of the train. But with the new roadmap, the Lejre- og Whale commuters won't see them getting this improvement. Now the Minister is saying that there will be more trains, but then I would like to ask the Minister: how many is it, how many is it in a day and at what time of day? Because that is very important, among other things. especially for the commuters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143811	Yes, it certainly is. I only have 30 seconds here, so I'll be brief. Whale Lake and Lejre gets extended regular half-hour operation. Today's till 8:00. 18, but with the new road map, it's till 8:00. 20. So there is more time on the day, that is, from 1 p.m. 6:00 p.m. 20, where you have a regular half-hour drive. In addition, they are given more seats, something that is really in demand by the questioner himself too, because there are therefore more general departures where they do not have to fight for the seats. Finally, I would like to say that the double track will also result in fewer delays, which have also been afflicted for a long time, i.e. with the single track, because there is more robustness and stability when you have a double track so that you do not have to wait to the same extent for delayed trains.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143854	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143856	That is to say, in the period from early morning until noon. 18.00 there is no improvement, and that is where the commuters in particular need improvement, and then small improvements are made between 8 a.m. and 9 p.m. 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. and otherwise not. Even later in the evening, when people are going home from social or cultural events in Copenhagen or Roskilde, or where it can be, there is no improvement either. So it's hardly an improvement that's happening. That improvement is only formal and not real. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210143932	I do not agree with that. That is a real improvement. I myself was on the track at the opening of the double track, which has really been sighed for. The fact that there have been more seats meets a huge wish. I have also answered many questions from the questioner although on that very subject. There may be now, because there is more capacity. The second is that there has also been a very high demand for fewer delays. It can also be fulfilled now. There will therefore be an extension of the period of time of the day in which there is half-hour operation, namely for a longer time in the evening. I'm a commuter myself, and I just want to say that sometimes it happens that you don't get away from work before 8:00. 6:00 p.m., and it might be good to have the extra time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144009	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144010	I understand that the Minister will not reply to how many train departures actually come from Lejre and Hvalsø Stations, but constantly speak of an improved half-hour drive. But how many more flights come from early morning until noon. 6:00? It could of course be very interesting to know, because the commuters and users, i.e. passengers, do not see more train departures coming. That's one. The second is: If a train just drives by because it is continuous, it doesn't matter if there are more seats, because you can't get on the train. Well, this bites itself in the tail. For those who use the train and who would like to use the train, it is essential that they can come on a train and that, when they come along, it can go quickly and that there is also a short frequency between flights. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144059	I fully agree with the latter. I think all rail travellers in Denmark agree with that. When I highlight it with more seats, it is because today, when you go to Lejre or Hvalsø on the train towards Copenhagen, you have to compete for seats with those who have gone further on the stretch, in Holbæk or elsewhere. It is clear that when you have to, there are fewer seats. When there are more departures on a whole stretch, there will naturally also be more seats in the trains that then stop there. So that's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144140	That's question 11. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, and I can also thank the Minister for Transport, because there are no more questions for him today, so he has to do without it. The Minister for Taxation can then, in turn, welcome the fact that there are a few for him, and the first is Question No. 12 from Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144159	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144203	Will the Minister explain why officials are treated differently in the lawyer's investigation carried out by the Minister on the basis of the Tax Commission's report on professional misconduct, so that one, Head of Department Peter Loft, has been returned and the other, tax director Erling Andersen, is at work while the investigation is being carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144233	I would like to start by saying that I think it is a bad thing that I would like to make clear if we are going to deal with specific staff issues in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is a bad thing because we in this House should talk about politics; and then it does not really make sense to discuss staff matters here in the Chamber, as it is limited what one can and should say as a minister or as a member of parliament on such matters. In that light, it's kind of hard to get a debate going. But since the questioner has asked about the two specific staff cases, I will of course answer as well as I can now. The fact is that, as you know, the Tax Court has found that incorrect information has been provided to the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. This is, by its very nature, a serious matter. But the Commission has not made an assessment of whether anyone can be held responsible for that part of the matter. I have therefore asked the lawyer Jørgen Vinding to make a legal assessment to determine whether some should be held accountable for the Ombudsman's part. In relation to the part of the case concerning the Ombudsman, no conclusions can be drawn until the lawyer has made his assessment and the necessary follow-up has taken place. In this respect, I find it difficult to see that the fact that I have launched a lawyer's assessment should be an expression of discrimination against the persons involved in this part of the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144407	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144408	Of course, I hear what the tax minister says, but frankly, I would like to say to the Minister that a lawyer's investigation has been carried out on two officials, that is to say by former Head of Department Peter Loft and by tax director Erling Andersen, to see if they have committed professional misconduct in connection with the correspondence between the authorities and the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. So it is an investigation into the same possible wrongdoing in the service. All logic, all decency, all sense of justice, if such a thing can at all be mentioned in the context of the SKAT, then the minister says that those involved are treated equally. Nevertheless, the two persons are treated differently. Former Head of Department Peter Loft is suspended from his job and must not appear, while Director of SKAT, Erling Andersen, continues to function in his job. Why this discrimination, I would like to ask the Minister. There must be an understandable explanation for this difference in the treatment of the two. I cannot understand why two employees in the same case should not be treated equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144520	As I have said, I find it difficult to see that the fact that I have initiated a lawyer's assessment should be an expression of discrimination against those involved in the part of the case concerning the Ombudsman. As far as the details of staffing for the people involved are concerned, as I said, I do not want to discuss specific staff issues in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144542	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144542-2	Frankly, I do not think that a proper explanation has been given as to why former Head of Department Peter Loft should be suspended while the case is being dealt with, whereas tax director Erling Andersen goes to work every day. After all, it is very difficult to understand why both of them should not either be in work or be suspended on the basis of the Tax Commission's report. Does it not matter to the Minister of Taxation that the law investigation is seriously overruled by the Chairman of the Tax Commission and by lawyers because of the lack of legal certainty and that the discrimination between Peter Loft and Erling Andersen contributes further to the picture of a lack of legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144630	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144631	In principle, I do not want to go into specific staff situations and answer questions about them, but I do note that it sounds as if Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen uses a wrong title in relation to one of the two persons to whom he refers. I assume that this is due solely to the fact that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen has not been updated about the information that has been provided by SKAT's management. That does not change the fact that I am still basically not going to deal with specific staff matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144705	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144706	I have to say, then, that the Minister is not in a position to give a plausible explanation of why there must be a difference between the two officials if they are examined in a lawyer's inquiry commissioned by the Minister. And I can hardly free myself from anything other than thinking about the idea that we are going to continue to think about whether it has anything to do with a party community with one of the parties to the dispute. Should not the Minister of Taxation be freed from suspicion and put the two officials on an equal footing during the legal investigation and possibly later civil servants' proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144743-2	In any case, I am glad that the questioner has just stated that an official's case is not an established fact. That also shows that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, as a former minister, is well aware of the consequences that it may have when conducting an investigation such as that currently being carried out by the reported lawyer, and that it would therefore be wrong for me, as a minister, to deal with the specific staff case before it is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144816	So we are done with Question No. 12. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 13, but it is the same people who are involved. It's still the tax minister, and it's still Mr. Knox. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144829	What legal considerations has the Minister made in relation to Chapter 4 of the Civil Service Act in connection with the legal investigation initiated by Mr Peter Loft and Mr Erling Andersen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210144844	It is a really bad idea, as I said in my answer to the previous question, S 439, to deal with specific staff issues in the Assembly. However, as I also said in answer to Question 439 the case is that the Tax Court has found that incorrect information has been provided to the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. However, the Commission has not made an assessment of whether anyone can be called to account for that part of the case, and that is why I have asked Mr Jørgen to make a legal assessment as to whether anyone should be held responsible for the Ombudsman's role. If the lawyer considers that an offence has been committed, he shall also assess whether disciplinary responsibility should be exercised on that occasion and what penalty should be imposed in that case. I would like to stress that there is nothing unusual in asking a lawyer to make such an assessment. As I also made clear in my answer to question 439, in relation to the part of the case concerning the Ombudsman, no conclusions can be drawn until the lawyer has made his assessments and the necessary follow-up has taken place. In relation to the question put, I would like to stress that, if, in the light of the lawyer's assessment, there are grounds for believing that an official has committed an offence of service, the necessary follow-up will, of course, be carried out in accordance with the rules in force, including those laid down in the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145023	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145024	I understand, of course, that the tax minister is not concerned about legal certainty in the context of this lawyer's investigation, which the Minister has commissioned as a follow-up to the Tax Affairs Commission's investigation into the PM's tax case, and this despite the fact that on 4 November 2014 the Chairman of the Tax Court, Land Judge Lars E. Andersen, has clearly informed the Ministry of Justice that he does not believe that the testimony can be used during the legal investigation, as it will significantly conflict with the legal certainty of the witnesses. Now the Ministry of Taxation is not known to attach considerable importance to legal certainty, but the clear statement by the President of the Commission that these explanations cannot be included in the assessment must, of course, lead the Minister to make it clear to the lawyer Jørgen Vinding that the explanations cannot be part of the assessment basis. If the Minister does not do so, he does not accept the Chairman of the Tax Court, Judge Lars E. Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145133	The dialogue that I have with Mr Jørgen Vinding, the lawyer, I do not intend to explain here in the Chamber, as it covers a matter relating to staff matters. However, for the sake of understanding of the matter, it is important for me to stress that my own system in the Ministry of Taxation is inadvisable in relation to the follow-up to the Report of the Commission on Taxation. I therefore consult on this matter instead with the Modernisation Agency and the Ministry of Justice, and I have full confidence in the advice I receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145205	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145206	Chapter 4 of the Staff Act clearly states that if the official is suspected of having committed misconduct in the service, this question must be dealt with by means of an official's examination of the legal certainty attached thereto. Interrogations must be appointed, assisted, etc., and this is not the case in the law investigation. If Jørgen Vinding, a lawyer in charge of the investigation, considers that there have been misconduct in the service, the official shall be entitled to carry out this matter and any penalties imposed on it through the legal guarantees provided by an interrogation in the service. What, in the view of the Minister, is the relationship between these things? What is the legal certainty of officials?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145255	I would like to repeat my answer from the initial answer, which I have just stated and I would like to stress that if
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145319	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145319-2	This means that the Minister agrees that if the lawyer Jørgen Vinding considers that there have been criminal offences in the service, then the officials are entitled to the legal guarantees which lie in the course of an official hearing. However, lawyer Jørgen Vinding was asked by the Minister to make a legal assessment on the basis of the Commission's report in order to determine whether there have been professional misconduct in connection with the correspondence between the authorities and the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament in the matter, in other words in a vertical way contrary to the President of the Commission. It is, of course, quite unheard of for the Minister of Taxation to try to circumvent the provisions of the Civil Service Act by asking the lawyer Jørgen Vinding to propose a sanction. I know, of course, and I have repeated this at times that legal certainty is not a core competence of the Minister, but this must, in general terms, be a cover, I would say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145421	I think it is incredible that a former minister should be heard to such an extent that he is botanising in a staff case, which is quite clear as a minister, under no circumstances should he enter into concrete terms, and I think it is, in fact, absolutely unheard of that a member of the Folketing should enter into it at all. I think we should just let this matter go its course and then ensure that the lawyer can carry out his investigation. And in this context, of course, I am consulting both with the Modernisation Agency and the Ministry of Justice; and it is advice that I am quite confident about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145503	We thank the Minister, and so we are done with Question No. 13. We have come to Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14, and it is also to the tax minister, and the question has been asked by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145521	Thank you. The question is this: does the government intend to continue to introduce an advertising tax which leads to job losses and higher consumer prices, in the light of recent announcements about the advertising tax from Enhedslisten, SF and more members of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145537	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that the advertising fee is part of the 2012 Finance Law Agreement between the current government, SF and Enhedslisten. The tax is intended to reduce the amount of household advertisements and thus be based on environmental considerations. The revenue from the advertising tax is intended to finance the green cheque supplement, which was also part of the Finance Law Agreement. In the government, of course, we stand by the agreements we make. However, both SF and Enhedslisten have recently stated that they would like to look at alternatives to the advertising fee. At the same time, we note that the revenue from the advertising tax will be approx. A third less than what we expected when the agreement was concluded. This is simply because the volume of advertising distributed to Danish households has fallen more sharply than expected, even though the tax has not yet been introduced. We will discuss these matters further with the parties to the agreement. The government will therefore call Enhedslisten and SF for a meeting in the new year. The circumstances surrounding the advertising tax law mean that the amendment, which is currently on the legislative programme until January, will be postponed until March. I should also like to stress that the possible abolition of the advertising tax requires the necessary funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145701	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145702	Well, that sounds really good. That sounds really good, and I can say that when the crowd falls, it's no surprise to me. Because, as the rapporteur of the Left in this matter, I have told four tax ministers before the present one that the revenue expected to be collected was unrealistic, and the government has now come to the conclusion that it has to acknowledge that it was. I should like to ask the tax minister whether the reduced revenue that is now being said to be coming has also taken into account the loss of revenue that will be in Post Denmark. I have received a reply that Post Danmark will lose revenue equivalent to 70 million. kr. Annually, because Post Danmark will also have to pay tax and thus is expected to have a smaller turnover. It was one: Post Danmarks 70 million. kr. Counted in the equation? I actually liked to know something else. Now the Minister says that SF and Enhedslisten have approached, but what does the Minister think, and what does the government think? Do you think it is a good tax? Have you listened to the criticisms made by the trade union movement, which expect the loss of up to 600 jobs? I myself took part in a conference organized by among others. HK, and among other things: The LO Vice-President was on the platform. I did not see anyone from the Social Democratic Party in the panel, because the Social Democrats' participant, Thomas Jensen, had to resign at short notice. So it has been a little difficult to find out what the Socialists really think. Can the Minister state his position and that of the government as to whether the advertising tax is appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145846	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145847	The government stands by the agreements we make, and it is clear that if the parties to which we conclude agreements wish to discuss a particular matter, then we are also discussing it. That is what has been agreed, and that is what I intend to do, namely to call the Enhedslisten and the SF for a further discussion, and I have also stressed, as I said, that if it is the case that this tax is not to be implemented, then we have to find a corresponding revenue in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145917	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145918	Yeah, I get that. That is what the Minister said at the outset. Now I asked two questions to which I had hoped for answers. One was about the 70 million. kr. from Post Danmark. If the Minister does not know the answer, that is fair enough. Then you just have to say it, and then you have to check it out. For that figure will, of course, get the revenue even further down. The second question was: what does the government think? In the light of the debate which has taken place and the requests which, among other things, have been made, we have changed our position on the reasonableness of the advertising tax. have been from the comrades of the trade union movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210145951	The government enters into agreements on different implementations of different policies, and of course we stand by them, but it is also clear that if there is a desire to discuss it in a different context, we will of course also take those discussions. Of course that's clear. In relation to how the revenue calculations are made, I am quite sure that there is one of the incredibly many questions that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has put forward along the way, which illuminates this, and if not, we can at least follow it up. So if it is the case that the amount of paper to be used to print advertising articles in Denmark has decreased, the number of papers to be used to answer questions in this case has at least increased accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150041	Then I have noted Mrs Inger Løjberg as a co-questioner, and I have come to Mrs Inger Løjberg now, so I give the floor to her.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150047	If the number of papers to be used to answer all the questions, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has submitted, outweighing the number of papers to be printed on, there is obviously good reason for this, because this is a serious matter. This is a very serious matter for the many, many hundreds of people who are about to lose their jobs. That is why I can only be, I dare not say confidently, because it is perhaps a very big word when you are dealing precisely with the Socialist-led government, but at least I look more confidently at the future, in that negotiations have been called for in the red circle. So I'm actually just gonna try to follow up on Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen's question. What does the Minister intend to do with these negotiations? You don't just call for negotiations. I know that from my time as a minister just for the good time, you gotta have something on your mind, and what's that all about? I would like to ask the Minister that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150150	It is clear to look at the views which have been expressed, among other things. SF's and Enhedslisten's page. It is clear that it would be very strange if we did not listen to those views when they are aired, even in the press, and it is clear that this is a matter which, for obvious reasons, has great attention. There has been a lot of talk about the number of jobs involved here, and the estimates used in the industry are probably somewhat overrated, at least in relation to what has been the basis for decision-making. But that does not alter the basic fact that if it is the case that there is a desire to discuss the tax and whether it might be replaced by something else, then of course you have to do so. However, this presupposes that the proceeds which would otherwise have been entered on the basis of the 2012 financial bill will be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150244	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150245	But we are not simply calling for discussions. We must have an objective in these discussions. That is how well I know a minister's calendar, even if there is no longer any insight into lobbyists and anything else in a minister's calendar or there should be no insight into it in the future. But does that mean that the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e.g. the employees on e. the employees on e. the employees on e. Stibo and Graphic Dipak in Skive and many other places Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Because if that is to be understood, I would certainly welcome it, but it is perhaps always a little dangerous to take the pleasures in advance when we are dealing precisely with a social democratic government headed by Denmark at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150331-2	I have already said very clearly that we intend to call SF and Enhedslisten for discussions on this in January, and in connection with that I have the expectation that we will then reach a conclusion. Once again, I must stress that if it is the case that the tax is not to be implemented, then we have to find a corresponding revenue in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150353	Then we go back to the original questioner, who is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150358	After all, it is difficult to derive so much from what the Minister of Taxation says, because not so much is said. So I will conclude by asking for the additional green cheque that the advertising fee was intended to finance. Now, thank God, the advertising fee has not yet been introduced, and hopefully it will never be, but the green cheque has been paid out, so somewhere the government must have found the money for the additional green cheque without an advertising fee. Is the Minister confident as to whether it is possible to find financing for the relatively small expenditure we are now talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150440	Whether or not we find such a thing will also depend on the dialogue with the parties involved, i.e. SF and Enhedslisten. It is clear that these are discussions that I intend to keep in confidence with those parties until we reach a conclusion. It must necessarily be the case that, when you have an agreement, the political discussions are also taking place in the political sphere. I am confident that we can reach a conclusion there too. I do not think it would be useful to botanise further in this, but, as I have said, the announcement on my part is that there will be a meeting which will be held at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150517	That was the last answer to question 14. Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, and I would also like to thank the tax minister, because he's finished too. It is also the case that this was the last question today, so Question Time is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141210150532	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 11 December 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
