ParlaMint-DK_20141008130000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill no. L 4 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the tax of electricity, the Law on the tax of coal, lignite and coke, etc., the Personal Tax Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 5 (Proposal for a Law on the conclusion of the Protocol amending the Double Taxation Agreement between Denmark and Ireland), Bill No. L 6 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the conclusion of Protocols amending the Double Taxation Agreements between Denmark and Belgium, Luxembourg, Singapore and Austria respectively. Bill No. L 7 (Proposal for a law on the conclusion of the Protocol amending the Double Taxation Agreement between Denmark and India), Bill No. L 8 (Proposal for a law on the conclusion of a double taxation agreement between Denmark and Ghana), Bill No. L 9 (Proposal for a Law amending the VAT Act, the Tax Control Act and the Equalisation Act. Bill No. L 10 (Proposal for a law amending the Share Advance Tax Act, the Equalisation Act, the Corporate Tax Act and various other laws. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Morten Østergaard): Bill no. L 12 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Free Communes, etc.) Minister for Employment (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 13 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy. Bill No. L 14 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Holidays. Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 16 (Proposal for a law on employee investment companies. Bill No. L 17 (Proposal for a law on the repeal of the law on the nutrition of certain food businesses and amending the Law on catering and alcoholic beverages, etc.) Bill No. 18 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Competition. Bill No. L 19 (Proposal for a Law on Danish Tourism). Transport Minister (Heunicke Magnus): Bill No. L 20 (Proposal for a Law on Public Roads, etc.) and Bill No. L 21 (Proposal for a law on a new fjord connection at Frederikssund). Minister for Culture (Marianne Jelved): Bill No. L 22 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Radio and Television Activities. Bill No. L 23 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the distribution of profits from lotteries and horse and dog betting and the law on the promotion of doping-free sport. Bill No. L 24 (Proposal for a Law on Higher Artistic Education Institutions of the Ministry of Culture). Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 25 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Bill No. L 26 (Proposal for a law amending the adoption law. Bill No. L 27 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Justice (Karen Hækkerup): Bill No. L 28 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the Faroe Islands on the care of the courts and the Law amending the Law of the Land Register, the Law on bankruptcy and other laws). Bill No. L 29 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Liability. Bill No. L 30 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 1 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the tapping of fibre cables). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Trine Mach (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 2 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of general VAT on all types of tattoos). Christian Juhl (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 3 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the halving of the recovery period for unemployment benefit). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-4 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stronger efforts to conserve Danish rune stones). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 5 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the rules on criminal records). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 1 (Will the Prime Minister explain the government's value policy, focusing on the challenges arising from immigration, which press/forces the Danes to change their way of life and behavior and correct immigration for the sake of immigrants?). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Karin Nødgaard (DF): Request no. F 2 (What can the Minister say about the Government's digitisation policy and the requirement that from 1 November 2014 all citizens should have an e-Boks to receive mail from the public sector, and will the Minister do so voluntarily to join the digitalisation and e-Boks?). Søren Espersen (DF), Claus Hjort Frederiksen (V), Villum Christensen (LA) and Per Stig Møller (KF): Request no. F 3 (What can the Prime Minister say about the general situation in Greenland, including the dramatic budget deficit, about the now very bleak economic prospects, about the dramatic increase in unemployment, about the lack of investment, about the increase in poverty, about the problems caused by emigration, and about the plans of the government to assist Greenland in the country's deep crisis?). Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr (EL) and Christian Juhl (EL): Enquiry no. F 4 (Will the Minister explain how the government will meet the target of working conditions by 2020 with the target of 25 per cent? fewer serious accidents at work, 20 per cent. fewer mentally overloaded and 20 per cent. less with muscle and skeletal overloads, e.g. Of your back?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 6 October 2014, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure presented: Report on ensuring the possibility for North Atlantic MPs to participate in the Question Time with the Prime Minister. 6). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. September 2014 submitted: Report on the supervisory activities of the parliamentary year 2013-14. 5. The report will also appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141008130437	The following electoral groups were notified: a group of 92 members: Social Democracy, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Enhedslisten, Javnadarflokkurin (JF), Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG); a group of 87 members: Left, Danish People's Party, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party and Sambandsflokkurin (SP). There is a proposal from the groups on these names. The names of the elected can be found on the Danish Parliament's website and in the Parliamentary Times. At the same time, the groups have put forward proposals for the election of the President and Vice-President. Only one has been proposed for each of these posts, and the names are also included in the Parliamentary Times (cf. (see below). Election of 16 members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure: The election was: 1 Mogens Lykketoft (S) 2 Bertel Haarder (V) 3 Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) 4 Lone Loklindt (RV) 5 Per Clausen (EL) 6 John Paulsen Paulsen (S) 7 Karen J. Klint (S) 8 Ole Hækkerup (S) 9 Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) 10 Torben Hansen (S) 11 Camilla Hersom (RV) 12 Jonas Dahl (SF) 13 Stine Brix (EL) 14 Birthe Rønn Hornbech (V) 15 Kristian Jensen (V) 16 Flemming Damgaard Larsen (V) 17 Hans Christian Schmidt (V) 18 Søren Espersen (DF) 19 Peter Skaarup (DF) 20 Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) 21 Brian Mikkelsen (KF) 1-5) 1 5), together with 16 elected members). President: Mogens Lykketoft (S) President: Bertel Haarder (V) Election of 17 members to the Committee for the Verification of Credentials: elected: 1 Julie Skovsby (S) 2 Karen J. Klint (S) 3 Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen (S) 4 Mette Gjerskov (S) 5 Thomas Jensen (S) 6 Camilla Hersom (RV) 7 Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) 8 Frank Aaen (EL) 9 Pernille Skipper (EL) 10 Peter Christensen (V) 16 Peter Juel Jensen (V) 12 Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 13 Hans Christian Thoning (V) 14 Bent Bøgsted (DF) 15 Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) 16 Leif Mikke Mikke (LA) 17 Mike Legarth (KF) President: Peter Juel Jensen (V) Vice-President: Julie S. 7, supervision of the processing of persons who are subject to detention by the provisions of Paragraph 71 of the Constitution. Høbenhavn (Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søn Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Søren Sten Sø (Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten Sten The election was: 1 Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) 2 Lone Loklindt (RV) 3 Jonas Dahl (SF) 4 Stine Brix (EL) 5 Kristian Jensen (V) 6 Peter Skaarup (DF) 7 Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) 8 Brian Mikkelsen (KF) Chairman: Henrik Dam Kristensen (S) Vice-President: Kristian Jensen (V)]
ParlaMint-DK_20141008130535	The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 9 October 2014, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. ]
