ParlaMint-DK_20141009100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 15 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the status of temporary workers in the event of the posting of a temporary employment agency, etc.) and the Law on Labour Law and Trade Arbitration Courts. Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill No. L 31 (Proposal for a law amending the law on hunting and game management. Minister for Education (Christine Antorini): Bill No. L 32 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on secondary schools, home schools and hand-working schools and various other laws. Bill No. L 33 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Production Schools. Minister for Health and Prevention (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 34 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Health and the Law on the Authorisation of Health Professionals and Health Care. Bill No. L 35 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pharmacy. In the case of pharmaceutical companies, veterinary departments and pharmacy sales, a modified procedure for the granting of pharmaceutical authorization by the Danish Health Service and contributions to the recruitment of hospital pharmacists, the abolition of the admission of pharmacists to the State guarantee on borrowings, etc.) Minister for Food (Dan Jørgensen): Bill No. L 36 (Proposal for a Law on the Maritime and Fisheries Fund), Bill No. L 37 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Properties. to acquire agricultural property, abolishing the rules of preference for complementary land, etc.) and Bill No. L 38 (Proposal for a Law on the Rural Fund). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Martin Lidegaard (Proposal for a resolution on the accession of the Association Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part), B 7 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on accession to the Association Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part) and motion for a resolution No. B 8 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accession of the Association Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Martin Lidegaard) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the Baltic Sea Council cooperation. R 4). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 24 October 2014. In addition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Martin Lidegaard) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on Arctic cooperation. R 3). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 24 October 2014. The Minister for Defence (Nicolai Wammen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on Nordic defence cooperation 2014. R 5). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 24 October 2014. The Minister for Nordic Cooperation (Carsten Hansen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on Nordic co-operation 2013-2014. R 2). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 24 October 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009100316	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009100342	Politics is about changing change to improve. That is why I have looked forward very much to today's debate, because the Prime Minister's statement and the opening debate are more than anything else an opportunity to discuss visions of the future. Where is Denmark going? And what steps can we take to get there? I had also been looking forward to the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday and to hearing new suggestions about how the government will bring Denmark into the future, but I listened a little in vain. I heard a great deal of satisfaction with what is going on here. I heard a Prime Minister who thought that a deep crisis has turned into progress. I heard that the government is pursuing a robust and fair foreign policy. I heard a Prime Minister say that she wants to create jobs, and I heard a Prime Minister who basically does not have an answer to the simple question: how do we do that? What do we do now? I'm a little upset because there's enough to do. After three years of this government, we have heard many words about growth. The reality is, however, that we have not yet experienced a year in which the economy has grown, and our growth prospects in the future are lagging far behind our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Germany. After three years with the Prime Minister, we have heard many words about financial responsibility. The reality is, however, that last Friday the Minister of Finance suddenly discovered that he was missing 15 billion. kr. to keep the European Union from the door. After three years, we have heard many words about a robust and fair immigration policy. The reality is 31 relaxations, an annual bill of billions and the highest number of asylum seekers for more than 15 years. So what now? The reality is that Denmark is dangerously close to stopping. We are stuck in the dive and the government's response is nice words about growth and about the reforms we have But the reforms are While the government has stalled, the Left is ready to go further. I agree that Denmark is on track. Left left the trail itself, and with us we are pleased that after the elections the government agreed to it. We have together extended the track, but we are not in the end. Denmark must be a better country for the future, and that is why the Left has presented five key issues that we will pursue in future: in future it must be worthwhile to work. Small 800,000 Danes are on public support, and this is the biggest social challenge we face. For not only is it a heavy financial burden for society, it is also a problem for the individual who is placed outside the working community. It is not good enough that 300,000 Danes only have a weak economic incentive to take a job, that 47,000 Danes have less than 1,000 DKK. a month out of taking a job and 17,000 Danes lose money on being at work. That is why we need a two-legged job reform: a modern ceiling on cash benefits to set a ceiling on benefits, as well as tax cuts to the lowest labour income, so that the difference between being on transfer and going to work becomes greater. In future, we must create more private jobs. Private jobs are the very prerequisite for prosperity and thus welfare. It is the private jobs that pay the bill for the goods and opportunities we all want. Therefore, we must make it more attractive, and we must make it easier and easier to operate in Denmark. Taxes must be systematically reduced and bureaucracy must be reduced. That is why we in the Left want to introduce a tax and burden freeze so that there will be no new taxes and taxes. That is why we want to put an end to EU rules, so that Danish special rules do not send jobs out of the country. This is why we will make it easier for Danish companies by introducing at most new business-oriented legislation 2 days a year, so that during the remaining 363 days of the year they can concentrate on creating growth, creating jobs and running a business. In the future, Denmark must be opened more to those who can and will, but closed to those who will not. We want a completely new immigration policy. For some it must be easier to get here, for others it must be far, much harder. Business must, of course, have access to foreign labour, so we have the manpower needed to ensure the welfare of our societies. That goes without saying. On the other hand, we must say a clear no to those who come to Denmark to live in parallel societies; who come to Denmark to ignore Danish values; who come to Denmark and then sign up and basically undermine the development we all want. If you feel that way, this isn't where you have a future. For the future, we need to be safe at home and on the street. Denmark is basically a good and safe country, but Denmark is also the country in Europe that has the second most burglaries, and we have the Minister for Justice's word that the police in some parts of the country do not care about breaking and entering if less than DKK 100,000 has been stolen. We have residential areas where the police and fire department cannot move out without being met with stones, bottles and shouts, so they must turn around and drive away again. And we have seen a hard core of young people who, unfortunately, commit serious crime and who the current system cannot deal with. That is why we need a security package that will create more visible police and more security in the home and on the streets and streets. There is a need for a much more effective approach to gangs with, among other things, gangs. increased penalties for biker and gang crimes, and a much more consistent and targeted system is needed to address the 12 to 17-year-olds and ensure that they do not engage in a lifelong criminal career. In future, we must make good health care even better. We have basically a good and well-functioning healthcare system. That is good, but it is far from perfect, and for the Left is not good enough. Too many patients wait too long, and after surgery too many wait far too long to get started on rehabilitation. Unfortunately, the possibility of surviving disease is worse in some parts of the country than in others, and the survival rates for cancer are worse than in our neighbouring countries. For us, well-functioning health care is a cornerstone of the welfare society, and that is why, as I said, good enough is not good enough. Therefore, the Left will spend 1 billion. kr. extra in health care next year. That is why we want to ensure that no patient is forced to wait more than one month or less for treatment. That is why we want to set in motion a cancer plan IV which, among other things, includes: ensure that health care is geared to the challenges of the coming years and that cancer patients receive a patient-responsible doctor. And that is why we will initiate a thorough review of unexplained and reckless regional differences in patients' ability to treat well, an analysis that we will be prepared to act on, because we will not accept these differences. See, these were my and the Left's suggestions on how to bring Denmark into the future. Then I hope that today can give us a little more insight into what the government really wants, apart from being a government. Finally, I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there has been minus growth in Danish economy in both 2012 and 2013 and that very low growth is expected in 2014. The government's economic policy has thus failed to live up to its promises. Denmark needs more private jobs because this is the prerequisite for the development of welfare. Parliament regrets that with the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits, the government has created a situation in which cash benefits recipients have a very weak financial incentive to take a job, and calls on the government to take initiatives so that it can pay better to work. Parliament calls for a balance in foreign policy, so that more of the foreigners who come to Denmark contribute positively. It is noted that the government is finally emphasising the massive problems of the influx of asylum seekers and radicalisation. However, recognition has not resulted in rapid and sufficient action. • V 1).
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101240	That's what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen read out proposals for the adoption of four parties will, of course, be included in the further negotiations. We shall now turn to the brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101254	Thank you. I just want to know when the Left Zero Growth Plan is coming. After all, this is the last opening debate we will have before a parliamentary election, and I think the electorate has a right to know which public servants it is, which should be fewer and where it is that less money should be spent on our welfare when the Left wants zero growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101322	Thank you. There will be no zero growth plan, because we do not have a zero growth plan. We have a plan to stop spending, which means that every year we allow public expenditure to increase by the billions needed to ensure that the public sector has the same purchasing power, to pay the same staff as it did the previous year. That's the idea we have. When we have the idea of not allowing the public sector to grow further, it is for the reasons I gave in my speech here that we need to invest something more in private jobs. We need to give people with small incomes the tax relief that is needed to make it pay for more of them to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101421	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101422	So when's the plan? I mean, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is playing with words and things like that, is in a sense nothing new, and peace be with it, but the reality is that the Left has not even been able to present a financial bill for just one year, when zero growth or the spending freeze actually works. There's 2 billion missing. kr. in the financial bill that has been introduced for next year before the money fits. The electorate is entitled to know whether the Left has a record of the annexes and whether the Left has a coherent plan of what is intended for our welfare. So when's that plan coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101504	After all, we have the same economic plan as the government has. We have even helped the government to make it, because the government's plan is linked only because of the reforms we made before the elections and which were not meant to happen. That is what the last election campaign was about: in 12 minutes everything would be enchanted away • pre-retirement reform and benefit reform and other • but it still says so, which is why the government has a 2020 plan. We're part of that. After all, that 2020 plan creates the possibility of a stop to expenditure, and on top of that there are 60 cents per annum. $100 extra. After all, we need the government's bid for what the 60 cents are for. Where's the plan for what the 60 cents are for? I'm saying the 60 cents don't need to be spent. Well, it's not hard to make a plan for the 60 cents not to be used. The 60 cents will be used to give the Danes tax relief and the companies some less financial burdens. It is all with the aim of getting the growth that is not there back in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101604	Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101606	One has the same economic plan as the government, and the speech asks: Where is Denmark going and how? It must also be assumed that an overall plan for how the economy is to be linked can be presented. When will the Left's overall plan for zero growth come for a tax freeze? When will the Left's overall plan for the economy come, which has now suddenly become the same plan as the government has?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101641	To the very same extent as the government has, we have an economic plan, complete. We have contributed to the 2020 plan that the government is running for, and which certainly looks somewhat different from the one that was put to the vote, because according to it there should be huge real growth; money should be thrown down on the municipalities. When I get to the municipalities, they say: I wish we had that cost stop, because then we had more money to do with. That is the plan, which means that there is a little extra money every year. We haven't seen a plan from the government about what that money is for. Well, I have an expectation that the same standard will apply to us as it applies to the government itself, so I could ask you back: when will the government's detailed plan for how to use those 60 cents extras? Hundred kroner bills that you have? Our plan is there and the answer is very clear: we do not want to spend it on public spending, we want to invest it in targeted tax cuts, among other things. for people with small income from work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101730	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101743	So there comes a unified plan that shows what the Left intends to do where the government will spend 20 billion. kr. more on welfare by 2020? Because that's the difference; that's 20 billion. kr.; we have 20 billion. kr. which we can invest in better welfare in society forward-looking. I just ask quite soberly whether the Left will present an overall plan on how the economy, according to their calculations, is related.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101808	It is such to turn it a little upside down to say that one has to present a plan on how to not I just ask: when will the government's detailed plan on how to translate those 60 cents extras? Hundred kroner? When's it coming? I can say that we want a stop to expenditure. This does not mean that, despite what all the economists of the Social Democratic Party are sitting and figuring out, one cannot afford to have as many public employees as we have today; it means that one can afford to buy as much asphalt, buy as many pencils and hire as many school teachers and nurses tomorrow as one had yesterday. The question then is whether to do so. I don't think you do. We want to give priority to this, and that is one of them. Therefore, this year we have put forward a financial bill in which, within the framework of a spending freeze, we give twice as much priority to health care as the government does. It is, after all, a question of will and priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101910	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009101914	President. - I call the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, said in May to Berlingske: "I will not be Prime Minister at all costs. If I'm going to be prime minister, I need room to implement my policy. Nobody. That's fine. At the national meeting of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen saw clearly that his policy is zero growth in the public sector, and that is also fair enough. But at the same time, the Danish People's Party has rejected zero growth in the public sector, so will the Left put the Danish People's Party chair at the door and demand zero growth, or is the Left willing to spend more money on welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102009	I fully agree with the interviews I gave in May, and I think that is very, very heartfelt. I will never put myself in the position in which the present Prime Minister has put himself in, where, before the elections, a direction is set and a course is set and then turn on his heels and do exactly the opposite. And that's what we've seen. I am not going to complain about this on behalf of Denmark, because I am glad that everything that should not become any pre-retirement reform and payment reform is still there. And I'm glad that what was going to become some millionaire tax and pay ring, and what else was not going to happen. So it is good for Denmark, but it is poor, poor for the citizens' confidence in us politicians. That is why I mean every word. Is that the same as the fact that we in the Left can get through with exactly our policy? No, and that's also why I've been very precise about pointing out a direction. We want it to pay better to work. We want it to be easier to operate, we want a more consistent legal policy based on the victim. We want a different immigration policy in which we close off more effectively to those who cannot and will not. That is what we want. That's the direction. The other things we're talking about are means, but this is the direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102126	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102127	So I didn't get much smarter from that direction. I thought it was a quite imprecise direction. For either more money is spent on welfare or not. And the rapporteur himself said that there must be zero growth in the public sector. The Danish People's Party, which is either to support or maybe to form part of a bourgeois government, can never know how it is developing. So, I think it would be nice if Mr. Cole were here. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would answer: Will the Left lead a government where public sector spending increases yes or no? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102205	It is not really very, very simple, and I think that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is guilty of confusing objectives with means. For is the Left against the fact that parts of the public sector are growing? No, we have, in fact, just put forward a financial bill in which we are proposing to invest 1 billion. kr. in health. So it is twice as much as the government does, and that is an expression of the fact that we would like to see increased public spending in one area. Then there are other areas where we want less public spending. The employment system could well be slimmed down and we would like to reduce development aid, because we would rather spend that money on something else. So there is something called goal, and there is something called means. And the Left's aim is that the private sector should fill relatively more, that fewer people should be on transfer income and that it should be cheaper and easier to operate. It is quite obvious that if you pursue an economic policy based on a stop to expenditure, it is easier to get there than if you did not. And what I am saying, which is in contrast to the government we have now, is that we are not setting a course so grossly to turn around on our heels and go the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102318	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102323	Thank you, sir. President. I'd like to sign for a good speech from Mr. Simpson. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and I have a question about something that the rapporteur did not mention very much. It is with regard to the Left's view of this banking union, which is, of course, knocking on the door. After all, something new is happening in this matter every day, and last yesterday it was the Finance Council which said that at this stage the Finance Council did not recommend that Denmark enter a banking union in any way. There, of course, the rest of us are interested in knowing what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen likes it in relation to the fact that there will also be a parliamentary election at a time when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen may be Prime Minister of Denmark again. So what is the Left's point of view on this question?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102408	The very short answer is that I agree with the Financial Council. There should be no doubt that, overall, we in the Left have the approach to the European political debate that we think it serves Denmark's interests to be close to what might be called the European heart chamber, but it is also sensible to put the stethoscope on and listen to what it beats. This bank union is taking shape, and we don't have to chase ourselves. So I kind of agree with the Financial Council, which says: Wait a minute, analyse it further before you take a position on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102452	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102454	Thank you for your answer. Another question that I think is worth asking is that of this safety package, which Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in his rapporteur's speech mentioned that will come from the Left. Therein it was also mentioned that the Left wants more visible police, and so we in the Danish People's Party are very basically in agreement with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in. But that is to say, we have to interpret it with more visible police there, that with the support of the Left, resources are also being found for us to have more officers in action in Denmark, and that not least we get more case investigators, so people with thefts for less than DKK 100,000. can also receive decent treatment? Similarly, in the case of backland patrols, border and customs control authorities, should it be more visible, but should more resources be provided? For this is what we in the Danish People's Party think is quite right to do in the situation in which the Danish society is currently in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102553	Yes, there is. It was an accident that one of the first things this government did was to remove the 55 million. kr., which we had jointly set by among others. to strengthen border controls. Now one can then welcome the fact that the Prime Minister, with three years late last Tuesday, has partly reached the same realization that there is a need to arm up some places; it would, however, have been nicer if we had stuck to the adjustment that we others had set up. Of course, it also includes a commitment on our part that, yes, more resources will have to be made in the area, and we have also pointed this out in our draft budget. So it is about raising resources, and it is of course also about looking at how we use them. So there are like two ways to create a more visible police force. One is to invest something more, and we are prepared to do so. The second is, together with the police, to look at how we use police resources, by the way, and there is probably a well-known case that we in the Left think that there are police tasks around, for example. the transport of prisoners for questioning and other things which could perhaps be solved in other ways and then used the police resources where it matters, namely in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102702	Mrs Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102706	Thank you. Left will bet on private hospitals. This can be read in the Left's draft Finance Act for 2015. I understand that the private hospitals have been out and are very happy, because they can look forward to great profits if the Left gets its way. We could also understand from the press that it was in fact the Association for Private Hospitals and Clinics that had written large parts of the Left Finance Bill on this theme. But I am surprised by the bad experiences that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen himself has that one goes into this, not least on the very large bill that taxpayers were left with when private hospitals were overpaid during the last government period. So on that basis, I have a question for Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. It is well known that the Left is one of the parties which receives the most in party support among all parties here in the Folketing. 35 million kr. was it in 2011 and 2012. So my question is: Does the Left receive party support from private hospitals or the Association for Private Hospitals and Clinics?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102820	That question can be answered by looking at our party accounts. I can't answer that right now. But I can say, when it was said that we are investing in private hospitals: no, we are investing in patients. Well, we're on the side of the patients. That is our starting point: the patient before the system. The description of the historical role of private hospitals, which I am just hearing here, is therefore a caricature. May I not remind you, although memory may be short, that when the VK government arrived in 2001, health was sailing. At that time, cancer patients had to travel on the German roads for their own account to seek out a final hope for treatment. People were then pushed out of the labour market because they could not get operations unless they had free value. What we did was that we turned the system upside down, put the patient first and created real equal access to health care so that all Danes, regardless of income conditions, could get into treatment. And that is what has made health care the most dynamic part of the public sector that has developed, had the greatest increase in productivity, can deliver the greatest increase in results, both in the number of treatments and quality, throughout the public sector. The government is rolling some of that backwards, and we will not look at that passively.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102942	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009102944	Well, I understand that sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen comes with a long song from the hot countries instead of answering the question, because what was said in the little hint of attempts at answers that were, that one can see that in the Left's party accounts, is not true. For the Left has invented some cigar boxes where it says the Liberal Business Club. You cannot see what sponsors are really behind the many millions that the Left gets in party support. So I would like to repeat the question, because I actually think it is very real that the voters get an answer to it: who is funding the Left election campaigns, ads, etc.? Are these the private hospitals? Is this the Association for Private Hospitals and Clinics? Does the Left or the Left politicians receive money from the private hospitals we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103031	I mean, it's getting close to being intrigued to say that we've invented some cigar boxes to hide something. Anyone who makes a contribution to the Left beyond the limit laid down by law, of DKK 20,000. Then I would like to say that our policy is therefore not coloured, but it must be because it is evidently in the genes where the questioner is sitting. We don't feel that way about ourselves. Well, in terms of health, we put the patient first. We are proud of the results we achieved through the 00s, where we had the waiting list basket broken, where we had three cancer plans made, where we had increased quality, increased productivity, showed that we could make the money reach much further by dared to let the money follow the patient, by dared to lay down the counties, by doing everything that was opposed at that time, but which has worked. One of the reasons why this government does not have the same need to invest in health as the rest of us think we have must be what explains that next year the government will only spend half the extra on health of what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103141	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103145	I would like to go back to where we actually started the debate, namely on the lack of a plan. You could interpret it as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said along the way, as a no to that there will be a plan. Now it is my understanding that the Left has a presidency and the other part of the Presidency, Mr. Kristian Jensen, said very clearly to Jyllands-Posten on 28 June 2013 and I quote directly: "So, before an election, we will clearly present what policy we will meet the electorate with." That is why it is a little unclear whether the Presidency disagrees here, so my question is: is it Mr. President-in-Office of the Council? Lars Løkke Rasmussen, whom I now interpret as saying that it was a 'no' to a plan that has the timber in its hand, or is it the second part of the Presidency that has the timber in its hand and that clearly indicates that a plan is being presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103232	It is very clear what we in the Left are saying, namely that we want economic policy to be based on a stop to expenditure. It is not zero growth, it is a stop to spending. This means that annual expenditure increases every year and more money needs to be found each year in order to keep pace with inflation and price developments. That is our policy. With regard to the extra, there is therefore no plan on the part of the government for what that money is to be spent on. They're in a pool over at the finance minister's. The extra money we say we want to invest in tax cuts, primarily for people with small labour incomes, because we therefore care that those who go to work without actually having any profit from it should have a greater gain. And we want to invest the extra money in creating better opportunities to create jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103335	Sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103337	Now maybe we can go deeper, because I understand that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen acknowledges that some money needs to be spent to maintain the level. At the same time, money is needed to provide tax relief. It must be possible to write it down on a piece of paper so that you can check how much money is going to be spent here and how much money is going to be spent there. So back to the second point: if that is how the Presidency works in the Left, then one part of the Presidency says that in good time before an election you will come up with such a piece of paper explaining where the Left will find the funding for the many things they go and talk about. So I ask very simply: what will you say in good time? Is it before or after Christmas that we can find such a plan as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen actually outlines here? Can we get it on a piece of paper before or after Christmas, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103427	Now Henrik Dam Kristensen is probably closer than I to know when good time before the election is. So if we could get a signal about it, it would be nice at all, and if it turns out that we are not already in good time before the elections, that would be very good. With regard to the paper, I can say that it exists. That's the government's 2020 plan. Well, how hard can it be? How hard can it be? The government has a 2020 plan which shows that there is sustainability in Danish economy, among other things. because, after the elections, the government has begun to like the reforms on which it was elected should not become anything. I acknowledge that there was a plan then. It was written on the back of a napkin, but leave it alone. Thanks to that, there's a plan. This plan shows that the Danish economy is linked and that every year there is a small surplus. So we don't know what the government's gonna do, except it just needs to be used. There's no exact estimate of what it's gonna be used for. We then say that we would like to spend it on making it cheaper to be a Dane and to make it easier to run a business.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103542	Sir. Ole Hækkerup for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103545	Thank you. Now we have been a little bit about the same question about the plan of several rounds, and I really think that one of those who has said it most is Mr. Peter Christensen, Financial Rapporteur at the Left. He has said that it requires clear political priorities to be able to finance a lower tax on work. We have said this quite clearly, and we will of course also present them to the electorate in good time before the next elections. In other words, it requires clear political priorities. I think, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said that it is not so difficult to make a plan for how the 60 cents are to be spent, but then it can't be difficult when you have Mr. Løkke Rasmussen. Peter Christensen's words in the back of his head, to make a plan for how the 60 cents are to be financed. And that's the plan we're looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103628	How are they to be financed? They're funded. I mean, it's all running in circles for the government. Don't you trust your own 2020 level? Isn't it funded? Is it not the case that it is a plan where there is room for manoeuvre where, in addition to financing what you are already doing, you have some extra money? Yeah, but it is. They will be used by the government for all sorts of things, and then I ask: when will the plan come for what the government will use them for? It's not coming. Because whatever problem you encounter, from now on after the Danes have voted, it is exactly the 60 cents per person. 100 kroner to solve it. So when you stand out in the nursing homes, the 60 cents should be spent in the nursing homes; when you stand out in the hospitals, they should be spent in the hospitals; when you stand out in the universities, they should be spent in the universities; when you stand out with people who care about infrastructure, they should be used there; when you stand with people who cannot understand why the tickets were more expensive and not cheaper, even if you chose to do so, they should be used there. It's not gonna reach anywhere. Then it is much, much simpler to say: We stick to that plan, and we invest this room of opportunity targeted at making it cheaper to be a Dane and making it more attractive to go to work. Then there are some places where we would like to give priority to something, and then we should give priority to something down, and I would like to expand on that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103736	Sir. Ole Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103742	Thank you. It is almost superfluous to say, but it is not the government that is on the platform, now the Left is on the platform; that is why we are asking what then is the policy of the Left. And the thing we're trying to get rid of is that in case it was mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who decided all alone, what would be the priority? So what was it gonna look like? And that is, of course, because we have also seen the Left running around saying: then we must have a relief from the inheritance tax, then we must surely have a relief here and there and everywhere. And everyone can see that it can't be connected at the same time. That is why it is so striking that there are a number of Liberals who have said: we will put forward a plan in good time before the elections, because it requires clear priorities to make tax cuts, also because, for example, it takes a lot of time to do so. I would like to ask you to give priority to what kind of tax relief you want. And that is why we keep asking: what is the priority for the Left? We hope, in this debate, to be able to come just a tiny bit closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103842	I cannot understand why the questioner is so surprised that I stand here and speak out in favour of government policy. It has been our task to a large extent throughout this parliamentary term; we have problematized some things that the government did not want to go into, and then we have corrected. That is why we had reduced border charges, even though the government started to oppose them. That is why we had energy taxes reduced, even though the government started to oppose it. That's why we got more tax relief than the government intended to give. That's why we didn't get the millionaire tax, but got tax cuts. It is not that completely irrelevant that I am trying to talk myself into what might be government policy. As far as our own policy is concerned, I have set out some very clear priorities. In relation to tax cuts: we cannot see any taxes that we think are too low and that should be set up. When we have to reduce taxes, we give priority to taxes on small labour income above all else, and we do so because it is not a reasonable society, when it is for 300 000 that there is no significant gain in going to work. That is our priority. We are also pointing the way there, which is to set a ceiling on cash aid and invest the money in tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103951	Mrs Ida Auken for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009103955	On July 4, 2013, Mrs. Inger Støjberg says to the Ekstra Bladet: "In good time before an election, our plans will be completely clear. Is it incorrect when the Left say there's going to be a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104009	Well we have a plan, a very, very clear plan, which I have tried here within the 10 minutes that were available to me, to stick out in five precise directions. If Mrs Ida Auken thinks plans at the same level as Mrs Ida Auken's party, if she is sorry, the party for which Mrs Ida Auken was elected came to an end, which is therefore far-reaching considerations that collapsed at the same moment they fell on the desks of the Ministry of Finance, then I would say that we are not going along with such plans. We are very precise in relation to what direction we want to set for Denmark. We are very humble in that we cannot guarantee how quickly we get out of the directions we have indicated. But the promise we have made and it contrasts with the government we now have is that we will not be seen at the head of a government that goes a different way than the one we have put out before an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104107	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104110	When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was last in government, they wrote in his own 2020 plan: Zero growth in public consumption will really mean that one will have to save on core welfare as a primary school or care for the elderly if the health care system is to be able to use the latest treatments and medicines. When will the Left come up with a plan explaining whether it is primary school, care for the elderly or the latest treatments that need to be spared with the Left's zero growth or spending stop? When's that plan coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104140	We have just presented a financial bill which, as such, reflects on what lies in the fact that, within the framework of a spending freeze, we have found an extra 1 billion for the health service twice as much as the government is proposing, twice as much because we think that something is more core welfare than anything else. And it is clear that if you want to spend more in one place, you have to spend less elsewhere, and in the context of the economy that is available, you have to provide solutions, and we have done that in concrete terms here. Furthermore, we would also like to give priority to close welfare, because welfare is also about people being able to afford to change the refrigerator when the old thing breaks, that they can afford to send their children to post-school and other places. It is therefore a question of which economy is left at home in the families. And that's why it's a real disagreement... that we'd rather give people with small incomes a tax credit, so that the benefits of going to work are increased than we want to increase one of the world's largest public sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104243	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104248	Thank you. Left will cut 2.6 billion. kr. In the field of development aid. Among other things, they must: is used to give tax relief to rich Danes. I have now in a series of meetings asked the wise people of the Left in this area where the money is to be taken from. I haven't gotten that answer yet. That is quite right, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has said: if you want to spend money somewhere and give tax relief, then they have to be taken from somewhere else, but where, I would ask Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. This isn't just a zero growth. This is not a stop to expenditure, it is a reduction in growth. Minus 15%. - development aid, 15%, 2.6 billion. DKK, which is taken from the world's poorest and given to Denmark's richest. Where are they to be taken from?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104340	I don't understand that definition of Denmark's richest. In other words, I have just been talking about the people we care about most and to whom we would like to give priority are the people who go to a job where you do not get a high salary and where you see that the benefit of, for example, the payoff is due. sitting at the cashier's in Netto rather than being on passive transfer is too small. Is it now the people who sit down behind the box in Netto, it is those who stand out on the factory floor at the minimum wage, which is Denmark's richest? It's not in my optics. It is Denmark's heroes who go to work, although in many cases it is not worthwhile. They are the ones we want to give a helping hand. Then it is true that we are saving on development aid. Most of this is project funding, i.e. where you decide to start new projects on an ongoing basis. It goes without saying that if you have less money, you can start fewer projects. Perhaps the rapporteur should also put the question to the government, because with the laxity of asylum policy, with the pressure on its borders, the government is facing enormous challenges, because a large part of that bill is paid through development aid. So, if we could control the influx of asylum, we could also give priority to spending development aid on development aid and not on asylum seekers sitting in Danish asylum camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104502	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104503	I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, because he happens to be the one currently standing on the platform, not the government. And I didn't get an answer. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen talked completely around. I ask again: where should the money be taken from? Now, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen mentioned refugees. Should it be emergency aid for refugees from Iraq and Syria, should it be refugees in the neighbourhood, should it be the development of jobs so that young people have an alternative to ISIL and al-Qaeda? Should it be the living conditions of the poorest, so that we limit the flow of refugees? That is what we are using development aid for, or should it be the environmental effort that, in addition to benefitting the environment, also benefits Danish industry? Where is the money to be taken from? The left has not yet answered. They have been asked countless times, among others. by the undersigned. It is therefore interesting to know where they should be taken from, because every time you take from development aid, you risk increasing the flow of refugees, you risk increasing the approach to ISIL and al-Qaeda. Why don't you give me an answer? Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104603	So, for example, if we do... Does our development projects in Indonesia, which are part of what we want to do, reduce the massive flow of refugees? I do not know if there are any asylum seekers from Indonesia in Denmark. I'm not quite aware of that. Where is the money to be taken from? This isn't just a game of words, it's not about taking money from some people, it's about not giving them. And it is not play with words, because it is very much the case that we spend our development money on projects. We are constantly taking a stand to set new projects in motion. And it is clear that if you have less money in the future than you had in the past, you start fewer projects. Then you do a little less than you would otherwise do. Then, of course, priority must be given. Now I mentioned Indonesia. It is clear that we then want Danish development aid to be concentrated in some fewer countries, primarily with a view to combating poverty in Africa, so there is, of course, a priority in it, but that is nothing about us having to go out and stop some things that are going on. It is a question of us not doing anything more in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104708	Sir. Jonas Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104711	At the recent national meeting of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and I quote: It would be great to have a government with a majority in the Folketing. This opens Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also up to create an intergovernmental cooperation with among others. Dansk Folkeparti, and Dansk Folkeparti believe that the recovery period for daily allowances should be halved. In the sense of the SF, we find that very sympathetic, and that is what we have said. That is why I would just like to hear the President of the Left: will the Left participate in a government which is half the recovery period for daily allowances?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104748	Well, I actually think that the government that is sitting now would have been nice. But then it can be said that this government has been privileged to have something else when it does not have the majority, namely a cooperative opposition which has put an end to block policy, because for the first time in ten years we have had an opposition that has taken responsibility. I hope we have one of those after the next election. I hope we get into government. I hope that the way we have acted over the last three years could inspire the present governing parties if it were to happen that they came into opposition, not just to sit on their hands, but to seek influence. If that's the way it's gonna be, we're gonna have a cooperative government. Will the Left participate in a government which half-lives the recovery period for daily allowances? It is not the Left's proposal to halve the recovery period. I think sir... After all, Jonas Dahl is taking up the grief if we are already going to negotiate a government basis for a new government under my leadership here today. I can say quite super cards We are waiting, like the government, for the outcome of the Commission's work that has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104908	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104909	Now this isn't such a comedy club where you can just stand around with words. I think that the President of the Left has got a very good start on that. Now one can say that it may also have gradually become an hour stand-ups show from the Left. I would actually like to have some answers with all due respect, so I have the floor now. I have some answers to what the Left actually wants. In fact, the Danish People's Party has stated very clearly that the recovery period for daily allowances must be halved. Will the Left reject that demand if the Left is to have the PM post after an election? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009104949	I would say that it depends entirely on the outcome of the Commission's work which the government itself has set in motion. Now I want to start from the top: I agree, we are fully committed to the unemployment benefit reform we have made. I do not wake up every morning with such an ambition that we should change it today. Is it the same as that I am completely cold to any desire to adjust some things? No, it's not. That's also why I almost very long ago before the government started moving a bit here before the Social Democratic Congress said: for us, this reform is not chiseled in granite. We do not have the approach to politics that because we have made a solution ourselves, it is per. definition perfectly and cannot be adjusted. I can see challenges in the Danish benefit system, for example. the challenge that the coverage of people with, it should be said, a decent income from short-term unemployment is not violent. I can see that. That is why it is exciting that there is now a commission. What is like the framework for the Left is an unchanged economy, an unchanged supply of employment, an unchanged economy. If, within the framework that I understand, you are also the government's, you can adjust some things in place, then we are open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105106	Sir. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105108	As Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will remember, left in 2011 for election at a corporation tax of 20%. The Left has also promised to be concrete about the tax relief before elections. I am here with a quote from Inger Løjberg from 4 July 2013, where she has been asked about the Left's position on a corporation tax of 20%. And that is what Inger Løbberg says: but I can say so clearly that in good time before an election our plans will be completely clear. When can we see a plan for the tax policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105159	I have made it very clear what our priorities are in tax policy. We cannot see any tax that is too low and that we have an ambition to set up. We can see what is a priority, and I have said very clearly that what is our main priority, without excluding everything else, is the tax on small labour incomes. For one of the biggest problems we have in Denmark is that for many people it is not worth working. One of the painful dilemmas we have in Denmark is that we have seen an increase in Eastern European labour force, while at the same time we have seen an increase in the number of cash aid recipients available for the labour market. We must do something about that and it is the propellant. Does the Left go to the polls on a promise to lower the corporation tax? No, the Left does not go to the polls on any promise to reduce corporate tax. Does that mean I'm gonna stand here and promise we'll never do that? No. 'Cause we feel different than you've ever felt before. There were some who went to the polls to set up corporate tax, but then put it down. It won't be like that with us. We are not going to put it down, but that is why we may be doing it anyway, but we are not going to put it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105307	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105309	There is still no answer to the question whether the Left will actually live up to what I can quote Mrs Inger Løjberg, Mr Løjberg. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's own political rapporteur, to say that a clear plan will be put forward in good time before an election, including for his tax policy. When can we see it, when can the voters be allowed to see what the Left wants, so that a clear choice can be made? Is it even coming? When will be well before the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105341	Clear choices? Was it a clear choice we had last time? The questioner was then in another party and there it was very, very clear what it was all about. It was about two teachers coming into all the classrooms and millions coming to the municipalities, and there was no limit to what came, but none of it came. If it's the kind of plans you want, they don't show up. A very clear direction has been set out, a very clear commitment has been made as to what the Left is giving priority to. In principle, we want all taxes to be lower, and we would like that to happen. We know that we cannot put all taxes down, and that is why we have a clear priority. The place we want to start is the tax on small labour income. That is quite clear. We also have a plan for how it can be linked, because it has to be partly financed by creating a cash aid ceiling, so that we avoid the situation after the government has torn down the cash aid ceiling, that a couple must find a job of DKK 35,000. a month to get 1,000 kroner. out of it. And, of course, a stop to expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105453	Then we go to the last brief remark we can make in this round. Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105500	People fleeing from world wars and conflicts should immediately be sent to Kenya or one of the world's developing countries if they gain asylum status in Denmark. The goal is that Denmark should not have foreigners with asylum status on Danish soil at all. This is today's proposal from the Danish People's Party, and the Left Inger Løjberg has been out to call the proposal interesting. That is why my question is simply: what exactly is it in this proposal which the Left finds interesting?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105537	But that is what I think we have to look at people who comply with the provisions of the conventions and are individually persecuted, and so the phenomenon that we have now, as the government has wrangled around a little, with people who are not individually persecuted, but who want to get away from an unhappy situation. We're going to see more of that in the world. It can be famine, it can be natural disasters, it can be wars. Our priority is to help in the neighbourhood, and there is a challenge that today the world is different and that the most privileged of those who are not individually persecuted but who are in an unhappy situation can, as it were, come about on the other side of the globe via smugglers and so to speak. And that is where it is relevant to get a debate started. We would also like, if we come into a position where we can, to initiate a European context in which we consider walking on two legs, so as to open up individual persecuted people and, at the same time, invest in relation to this kind of war refugees, as you might call it, in the neighbourhood. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105655	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105657	I do not know whether you are more or less privileged when you come here as a refugee from Syria. But I repeat: people fleeing the world's wars and conflicts should be sent immediately to Kenya or one of the world's developing countries. Is the policy of the Left and is it something that the people can count on if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen one day has a government majority, that is, that the Left will send refugees who come to Denmark, to Africa and pay a developing country to receive them?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105728	The questioner does not know if you are more or less privileged if you come to Denmark. I don't really understand. Of course, we are more privileged than those who do not come, because in some way we have been able to make the investment in a human smuggler network that has enabled us to get all the way from Syria through a number of European countries which, in principle, should have taken care of the problem if people were to be registered at the border with Denmark. We could help ten times more if we helped in the neighborhoods. Is this a solution to the challenge we're facing right now? No, I don't think so. I don't think so. I do not think it is realistic that Denmark, as the only country in Europe and without any incentive, is able to go into this solution. It is not the same as not being interesting, because we have to deal with the situation that since the conventions were written, the wars of the last century, we are faced with another world. When the Danish Jews fled, they fled across the Sound. They did not flee around the other side of the globe, and the modern international community has to deal with this, and that is why we are not just pouring this down the board, but saying that we want to discuss it. We could help ten times more people if we were able to do so in relation to them here, and so it is not the individually persecuted, it is war refugees, to make proper offers close to where the conflict is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105855	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Maja Panduro as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009105907	Not long ago, I came across an article about 53-year-old Pia. Pia is from Nørresundby, and she had been available for a long time, but had now got a job. In the first place, she had been given a vicariat of three months. At the end of the temporary service, Pia went on vacation, and when she got home, there was a letter in the mailbox: Pia had been hired on a permanent basis. Pia says in the article: I just walked around with this letter, and I think every neighbor saw it. I was just so happy and I've been so happy ever since. I think Pia's story tells something very important about what it means for a person to have a job to stand up to and what difference it makes. It not only makes a difference between the bank book, but also for the sense of self and the joy of life. Under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen lost Denmark over 100,000 jobs. It was jobs that had otherwise given money on the bank book, strengthened self-esteem and the joy of life among people here in Denmark, who now suddenly no longer had any work to do. I think we all know someone who lost their job back then. Someone who had gotten a paycheck one day and now instead had a note. Someone who had heard one day that the economic textbooks had to be rewritten, but who could now see that the jobs were running out of the country. Someone who had heard one day that we could then buy the whole world, but who now had to understand that cuts and zero growth were necessary. After all, that was the reality at the time when the civil parties' celebration in the '00s with large unfunded tax cuts, unpaid bills and forgotten annexes ended with a bang. This has meant some hard years for Denmark. But now we've got the economy under control. We have kept our hands on employment, and in the last year 30.000 Danes have returned to work. We have the lowest unemployment rate for five years. After all, we must not put this at risk with reckless experiments with our economy and our well-being, which is why we have a plan where the economy is under control, where we invest in new jobs and where there is money for welfare. This weekend we could see the right wing warming up for a new round. For even if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says he wants to spend more money in public, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will cut down, although Mr. Anders Samuelsen wants to legalize drugs, and Søren Pape says no, and even if Mr. Samulsen and Pape will abolish the top tax while Lars Løkke Ramussen says ssh, boys, we talk about that after the election, then the four can agree on one thing. You can agree that it is time to have a new bourgeois party, with all that is involved in economic excesses. At the National Assembly of the Left we saw the four civil party leaders meet, and when I looked at them, I couldn't help but think that it was almost like being back in high school: four cheeky guys ready to blow it off. The mood was high, there were clever remarks, there was a certain superb self-confidence to detect. And it might sound very fun to go to the '00s party with Lars, Kristian, Anders and Søren. But you just know those types a little too well. They want to help spend the money, they want to help keep the party, but when it comes to cleaning up and paying the bill, they're gone. And then it's the rest of us who have to take responsibility. Now we heard on the weekend, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen asks the Danes to give him the keys to the Prime Minister's Office. I don't know if it's 'cause mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen so goes around and needs a place to be, but before the summer break it came out at least that there was a prominent Member of the European Parliament for the Left who said that he did not really feel comfortable even having to borrow Mr. Løkke Rasmussen. Lars Løkke Rasmussen keys to his house. And before giving someone the keys to something, it is always a healthy consideration just to ask themselves whether they really want to treat it properly. And there's just the thing about sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Left, that when it comes to the keys to the Prime Minister's Office, we don't know what they want. We don't know what their plan is. We have no idea how they intend to treat Denmark if they are allowed to move into the Prime Minister's Office. We do not know where to cut the link with zero growth. We don't know who's gonna get the biggest tax cuts. We don't know what it's gonna cost to see a doctor. Nor do we know what the Left wants when it comes to foreign policy. Because is it really going to support the tightening of the asylum rules that the government has now put forward? The number of asylum seekers is now the highest in 20 years, and then the government is acting. Denmark must, of course, still take away people who flee war and horror. However, we are tightening up the rules for asylum and it will also take some of the pressure on our municipalities and our asylum centres. But here too we need a clear answer from the Left. That is why the time has now come for the Left to come out of hiding and to present a comprehensive plan for its policy. Because Denmark can't live on Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's airy dreams, of his sights, directions, pointers, attitudes or opinions. There is a need for concrete policy. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen actually said it himself as Prime Minister: I call on the opposition to present an overall economic plan. The political rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, has said: well before an election, the Left's plan will be quite clear. Or Left's chief strategist, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen says: There will be a plan before an election. The left would really like to get their hands on the keys to the Prime Minister's Office. Left says they want a choice. Well, why don't you come up with that plan? So far, it's as if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen would rather bang the doors up to a game of welfare kasino, where the Left should put Denmark's welfare at risk, and where no one knows what will happen if the Left occupies the Prime Minister's Office. No, you just have to cross your fingers for luck so you don't get hit by Left politics. You can bet in the welfare casino whether it's nurses or police officers who have to be fewer when we're going to have zero growth. You can bet on whether the user fee at the doctor's office is 100 kroner. or 200 kroner, or you can bet on whether the biggest tax cuts should go to the rich heirs, or they should go to the oil companies. No one knows the outcome. The only thing you can be quite sure of is that the bank always wins and the individual Dane loses in Lars Løkke Rasmussen's welfare casino. Yet there is one who is already standing by with the chips in his hand without questioning the chances of winning, and that is the chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. For Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party are one thing: Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is to be Prime Minister of Denmark. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says he is against Lars Løkke Rasmussen's zero growth, but will he make it as a requirement to point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen? No. He says he's against Lars Løkke Rasmussen's plan to pay the doctor, but will he make it as a requirement to point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen? No. And then he also says that he is against Lars Løkke Rasmussen's plans for tax relief to the richest. But will he make it as a requirement to point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen? No. 'Cause it's like when it comes down to it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl brisk away Danish People's Party promises about all the many gifts, whether it is better welfare, no user fees or more costs for everything from sewers to DNA registers, if only he can then in return get a seat on the front row of spectators over there at the glass doors in the Ministry of Finance with pork roast ad libitum, where one can then look at while the Left introduces zero growth and cuts down in welfare. Let us be quite clear: Experiments on welfare, uncertainty about Denmark's economy and zero growth in our public sector are not what Denmark needs now when we work our way out of the crisis. We need to look after Denmark, so there is a job to get and a strong common welfare when you need it, where you don't have to set aside money for user fees in the healthcare system, where you don't have to save up for extra care when you get older, because you have to cut down where you don't have to pay for extra education because there have been too few teachers. That requires concrete policy. It takes a responsible plan. Then, on behalf of the Social Democrats, Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten, I shall put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that real growth in public consumption is needed if we are to develop welfare with, among other things. strengthened health, more in education, better conditions for children, the elderly, people with disabilities and socially vulnerable. On the other hand, zero growth in public consumption will mean cuts in service levels and fewer public employees to the detriment of welfare. The development of the welfare society is based on continued efforts to create jobs on proper conditions and to ensure a responsible economic policy based on social and environmental sustainability. It means continuing to fight social dumping, reducing inequality and poverty and ensuring real equality of opportunity. Parliament also notes that, at a time when we are moving out of a crisis affecting both the economy and well-being, it is necessary for parties that want government responsibility to present an overall plan for their economic priorities. This is necessary in order to avoid experiments with welfare and economics. • V 2).
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111046	Of course, the proposal for the adoption of four parties by Mrs Maja Panduro is part of the further negotiations. We shall now turn to the brief comments. It's Mrs. Inger Løjberg first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111102	A great deal can be said about Mrs Maja Panduro, but at least there is no doubt that she has an over-average interest in the policy of the Left and a very small interest in the policy of the Socialists. And then it has to be said about Mrs Maja Panduro that she has a very great interest in parties and who cleans up. If you take teenage parties, the Prime Minister should know something about it, because after all she was the one who appointed Thor Möger Pedersen as minister at the time. Having said that, I would like to ask a few questions about economics and foreign policy. Foreign nationals' policy is clear, and if we now see, according to the last assessment made by the government, an enormous intake of asylum seekers, it will mean that we will have an economic burden on that front. That is why I would just like to ask: what part of the increase in public spending will be spent next year on asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111159	Thank you, Mrs Inger Løjberg, also for the cocky remarks. If, as the Left, you do not want to give any answers either about your views on public spending or whether you want to support the austerity of the asylum policy that the government has now presented, I understand that you think you need to ask the Social Democrats. Mrs Inger Løjberg may be able to tell us whether, if we had continued with the rules that the Left had in the field of asylum, we have done so; so far we have not changed a comma, but now we are proposing a tightening-up would have come more asylum seekers to Denmark or fewer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111248	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111252	Well, there'd be fewer. If you just follow the daily press a little, you can see exactly what the asylum seekers who come to Denmark choose Denmark from, or what exactly the smugglers choose Denmark from: It is, of course, among other things. family reunification rules, and that is that you can live and work outside the centres. And these are precisely places where the government has relaxed. It has not, of course, been short of warnings on our part; we have warned each and every time the government has relaxed in the field of aliens; all 31 times we have warned against the consequences of it, and now you are standing where you stand. And let me just say that we have said that what the government has put forward is inadequate. That is what we have just said to clarify it. However, my question was as to what proportion of the increase in public spending next year will be spent on asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111345	It is true that Mrs Inger Løjberg is saying today that it is inadequate. You can just get a little confused, because yesterday Mr. Karsten Lauritzen said that perhaps it was so tight that it was directly unconstitutional, so he was a little worried about it. It just shows with all possible clarity what kind of tactical maneuver the Left is into. I have noticed that the Left is touring around with this list of 31 so-called relaxations, but you do not even have to take my word for what you can ask the experts, who have already completely tampered with that list and said that there is no relaxation. That is also why it is so funny that Mrs Inger Løjberg will not say at all that the asylum rules, the requirements for obtaining asylum in Denmark at the comma are the same today as they were when Mrs Inger Løjberg himself sat in a ministry. Now we are proposing to tighten them, and to that the Left says one day: 'Oh, maybe it is unconstitutional'. The next day, the Left says it's too lax. I assume that the Left will then be able to make a very clear announcement as to whether it is going to be supported today, because it was not quite certain yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111458	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111501	Thank you, President. In relation to the influx of asylum, it has been found that all those who are coming to Denmark now are not covered by the government's future legislative initiative, and at the same time it has also been established that if the same Syrians are coming to come now, well over two thirds of those who are coming will also not be covered by the new rules. And that means that when we are told by the government that the estimated cost this year for the asylum system is not 1.4 billion. kr., but 4.1 billion. kr., then it is quite large expenses that have to be paid from somewhere. And it is next year too; it is also the situation in 2015. Those who now come under the rules in force will be there next year as well. And so, I would say to Mrs Maja Panduro, is it a relevant question to ask today during the opening debate, in which we also later have the Finance Act: where does the extra money come from, which has to pay this huge extra bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111604	They come from the same places as they usually do, and from the places from which they would also have come, if we had had the rules that the VK government supported by the Danish People's Party, by the way, because we have not changed that. And I know that the bourgeois side finds it opportune to make the fact that today there are more than 50 million refugees in the world than there have ever been since World War II to a question of decisions taken by the Danish Government. But the truth is that with the refugee rules, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl supported in his time when it was Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who sat in the Prime Minister's Office, would have come as many refugees to Denmark as there are today. Now we are presenting a proposal for a tightening up which, of course, I hope you support, if you mean anything at all, you are trying to say. And it's not a joke that we do it. It is because we take it very seriously that there are also some mayors, some municipalities, who must be able to deal with the challenge quite practically, as it is, of course, when in this way we take responsibility for people in need, and because we have to recognise together that there are, of course, limits to how many Denmark can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111720	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111723	Parliament takes a few days to send F-16 planes on its wings to bomb in another country. And the government says that in about a month's time, you're gonna come up with some suggestions for some tightening ups. I mean, honestly, if you took this seriously, you acted differently. Then you acted quickly. It is a disgrace that you stand and claim that you are actually doing something. But we have been told that there will probably be a bill in a month's time which the Danish Parliament can then begin to discuss. And all those who come up until the time when we have a legislative proposal like this are covered by the old rules, and it seems that two thirds of those who come after a legislative proposal has been adopted will also be covered by the old rules. The cost is gonna explode. And Mrs Maja Panduro is the first to ask the rest of us where the money comes from. We have heard Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen on the platform, where most questions from the Social Democratic Party have been about the financial plan where does the money come from, and how is it related? So we are quietly asking Mrs Maja Panduro: where does the money come from for these rising asylum costs? And the answer is, they come from where they usually come. But where do they usually come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111835	In a sense, it is fortunate that we are not in a situation where it is zero growth from the Prime Minister's candidate, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl would point out that has been rolled out in the municipalities or elsewhere. It is the case that the municipalities which today have to take responsibility for this, and I am glad that they are doing so; I think that we should actually all remember to send them a thank you for providing shelter, giving the roof over the head to the refugees who have come here, not being burdened financially by what it is right now. But it is still a burden on a municipality, and it naturally raises some questions when it comes to people coming here. And that is why I just think that we need to take it very seriously and not turn it into a matter of domestic politics tricks, that people out there actually lift a responsibility, make room for the refugees who are coming. At the same time, we have a government that actually acts and proposes that we also have to introduce a temporary residence permit for the people who come here so that hopefully they can be sent back home when conditions in their home country change.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111952	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009111955	In the Prime Minister's opening speech on Tuesday, she once again stated that the unemployment benefit reform is a mess. I agree with that, which is why both the Socialists and the SF voted against the unemployment benefit reform back in 2010, but sympathetic words and airy declarations of intent cannot be paid the bills. The more than 40 000 people who have lost their daily allowance and the thousands of people who are about to lose their daily allowance must, of course, continue to look a long way for concrete solutions to remedy their situation. It is, of course, right now that the possibility of concrete improvements is present. There is a broad majority in the Folketing for a shorter recovery period for daily allowances, and yet the government postpones the decision indefinitely. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Maja Panduro: will the Socialists enter into a new intergovernmental cooperation with the Radical Left without a solution being found to the unemployment benefit problem, which includes a shorter recovery and a longer coverage period than two years? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112102	There are a lot of things that get caught up in those questions. Now, of course, we must first have a choice, and we should also have a majority after that election. I hope we will get that, and I hope that we will also get a majority with the author's party, because I think that is best for Denmark, and that is undoubtedly best for the people who have been affected by the unemployment benefit reform that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl invented and carried out in a very brutal way at a very violent time. Because we took responsibility, we have been able to ensure that there has actually been a support for those people who, if it had been up to the platters of the reform, had not had a potential penny to live for today, and so far there has been no one who has had less than four years of support in spite of the reform that was being done, because we have been able to succeed together and I am so happy to do the temporary benefits and make the postponement that we have done. So we need to look ahead and we have said very clearly there that we do not believe that the benefit system is optimal. That is why we voted against at the time, that is why we have put together all the mechanisms to try to mitigate the consequences, and that is also why we have jointly created a commission of wise people and the social partners to help us to create in the future a system of benefits that is better and better suited to the people who are also unemployed today. I think that can be done, but I will also allow myself to wait and hear what they then recommend.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112237	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112239	I am glad that the rapporteur is following up with the President on the fact that the unemployment benefit reform was a mess. At least we agree on that. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats refuse to act now despite massive calls from the SF, the Enhedslisten, the trade union movement and a social democratic hinterland, and they will only do something after a choice, because that is where the benefit commission comes first. Then we must at least be told when the unemployment benefit commission has arrived, if anything is going to happen, because if the Socialists go back into government with the Radical Left and believe me, I would rather have a centre-left government in Denmark than the alternative that floats over here, then, and I really think we should have an expectation of saying that before an election, so that we know it after an election, engage in intergovernmental cooperation with the Radical Left, without a solution being found to the unemployment benefit problem, which contains shorter recovery and longer coverage periods than two years, yes or no? And I'm sorry for my vote. There's nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112342	No, and by the way, really, really good improvement for SF's president. I think it is rather impressive to be here at all today, knowing that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has been a little underturned. I would ask you to stop saying that the Socialists are refusing to find a solution for these people. If anyone has been concerned about finding a solution, it has been us, and fortunately it has also succeeded together with other good parties, fortunately, despite the fact that after the last parliamentary elections there was a larger majority in this Chamber for the unemployment allowance reform than there was before the parliamentary elections, and despite that, it has actually been possible to make the temporary extension and guarantee the education allowance, to secure the labour market benefits, so that people who otherwise had not had a support have had a support. I'm actually pretty proud of that. Then I know that there are some who feel very attracted to the fact that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl today says he's changed his mind. May I not just say that, just as I think you should think before you give people the keys to your house, you should also think before you take a good offer from that man.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112459	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112507	The Socialists' excuse for not wanting to do anything to solve this huge unemployment benefit problem with which the right has left us is that we have set up a benefit commission and that we will only act once it has bartened. The problem is that the Commission has been put in such a tight leglock that it is certain that it will not be able to propose real improvements to the benefit system. Because the Commission has been told that the unemployment benefit system must not cost a penny more than it does today. The Commission has been told that the cuts that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Margrethe Vestager made sure that they were maintained. This simply means that if you want to improve somewhere, for example. By making it easier to reclaim the right to benefit, you have to cut back on somewhere else, for example. By cutting down on performance. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is the case that the Commission, which has to come up with a solution to the Social Democratic Party, has been given a clear message that it must not cost a penny and that the deterioration of the right wing must be maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112625	Now I am sorry that I do not have the mandate up here, but I can confirm that the mandate says that it should be within the financial framework we know today. It also says that it must not lead to a reduction in employment. Basically, I think that is relatively reasonable. Then I would just like to say about the Commission that I am pleased that we have not only set it up, but also brought forward the timing of its debriefing. When I maintain that I would like to take its work seriously, it is because it is not random people we have appointed to sit there. They are quite good people, and among other things. Indeed, representatives of the social partners, whom I know are very, very seriously involved in this work. They have a belief in and that faith I share that it is possible, even within the terms of reference, to actually create a benefit system that is better than what we have today, a benefit system that is better suited to the people who are unemployed today, and to the labour market we have, which in many ways looks different than it did when they made the old benefit system. Moreover, it is in a context in which we are also in the process of reforming our employment system at all. It was, of course, very much the neglect of the parties that made the unemployment benefit reform their time, that the employment system was not reformed at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112741	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112744	When the Social Democratic Party insists on maintaining right-wing cuts in the benefit system, this means that an improvement somewhere in the benefit system must be paid with a deterioration elsewhere in the benefit system. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur a very simple question to which you can answer yes or no: can the rapporteur guarantee that the Socialists will not in any way or in any group help to reduce the benefits paid? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112825	We are not going into this with the intention of reducing the daily allowance for anyone. We have an intention to improve our benefit system. The good people of the commission believe that, among other things. representatives of the parties, also on one side. I look forward to seeing what their recommendations are. I think we should wait and listen to them. And then, in relation to the economy, may I just remind you just as quietly that this government has spent 3.3 billion. kr. to mitigate the consequences of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's unemployment benefit reform. It's spent 3.3 billion dollars. kr. to ensure that people who had otherwise risked not having anything actually have something to live on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112907	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009112912	Thank you. I was just so happy when I heard the introduction to the rapporteur's speech on Pia, who had been given work. It's always nice to hear about people getting into employment. It is also something that is very close to our hearts. Now here I am with an answer that my colleague Ole Birk Olesen has received from the Minister for Finance on what the impact will be of this 0.6% consumption growth in the public sector by 2020. It will be that there may be an increase in employment in the public sector of up to 17,000, but the total employment effect is zero. In other words, there must be a job party in the public sector, but in the private sector there must be the opposite. Now I have noticed what red block usually is interested in, so I will tour the question a little differently: who is to be fired in the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113012	Nobody should be fired in the private sector, and I guess I'm gonna get extra speaking time after the laughter has settled. When you listen to the politicians on the right, it sounds like a public servant is a person who a private employee is dragging around on his back with a lot of hard work and trouble, and I think that is just too bad. I think that Denmark is perhaps one of the most beautiful examples we know that a strong public sector and a strong private sector are the prerequisites for each other. I think that is what we can do in Denmark. That is why I just think that we should stop drawing a scare picture of the public sector as someone who eats private jobs, because it is precisely because of the strong safety net that we have that we are also so competitive in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113119	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113122	I understood that the rapporteur disagrees with the Minister for Finance. In other words, the Minister of Finance has answered · and that is question 118, if it is interested in later reading · that there will be room for 17,000 new jobs in the public sector, but the overall employment impact of government policy in this area by 2020 is zero. So there are 17 000 missing, which must be found negative, that is in the private sector. I'm gonna ask you again, who's gonna be fired? Which companies should close down or restrict? What have the Social Democrats imagined? It can't be fair for you to throw a job party in the public sector, while you want to take the jobs out of the private sector, as the Minister of Finance has said you have planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113216	With all due respect, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, it is in our reign that unemployment is actually falling and employment is rising. There are 30,000 more people in the last year who have come to work. Back then, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister and this is the Prime Minister's candidate, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll and the Liberal Alliance insist on pointing out that private jobs were being taken out of the country. Just on sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's shift lost 100,000 jobs. I can see that, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll sits and flies with that answer, that is excellent, and I would like to take a look at that, but I also believe that Mr Ammitzbøll. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll himself was told that this was an answer to a question about a very isolated area. If you look at government policy, it creates jobs. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll must sit and wave all the papers he wants to do, but if you look at the job numbers instead, there are 30,000 more people in Denmark who have got a job to get up to in the morning since last year. I am actually very proud of that, and I know that our Finance Minister is, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113331	Mrs Lene Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113334	I would actually like to start by saying to Mrs Maja Panduro that it is actually no shame to admit from the platform of the Folketing that you cannot answer a question. You can't answer everything. However, now that the Prime Minister has put so much emphasis on the extraordinary situation of refugees, I think that I would nevertheless give Mrs Maja Panduro a chance to answer the question that both Mrs Inger Købberg and Mr Inger Købberg have asked. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has now asked Mrs Maja Panduro four times: does the Socialist rapporteur have an answer about the cost to Danish society of having so many refugees? What is it going to cost, and where is the money to be found? And what else will it cost after a year when family reunification is opened up, because at least there will be more to be financed? Does Mrs Maja Panduro have an answer to that? I recognise that it may be that Mrs Maja Panduro has no idea, but I just need to know: can Mrs Maja Panduro answer the cost and is it taken into account in next year's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113442	Unlike the Prime Minister's candidate's draft budget, which Mrs Lene Espersen's party supports, which has emptied every reserve and can also make a deficit of 2 billion. kr., which you can't really find anywhere, we actually have some buffers in our Finance Act. Thank you for your concern. We're gonna make it all go together. When the development is as violent as it is at present, in the number of asylum seekers, it is, among other things. The reason why we are taking action, but it is clear that it is so difficult to predict what the overall price will be. I know you're counting on that, and you can feel completely confident that we're gonna be okay. We're basically the ones who've got the economy under control. Unlike the government we had before, which Mrs Lene Espersen was part of, which made us get a recommendation from the European Union, we are the ones who have made the recommendation lapse and we do not intend to bring it back. Here, too, you can be confident that we will solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113550	Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113553	Well, we didn't get an answer to that. Then I'm gonna go to a whole other ball street. One of the things that the Social Democrats and the Conservative People's Party have agreed on has been that we have wanted to get rid of some of the Danish EU reservations, including replacing our reservations in the area of justice with an opt-in system. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister said that a thorough analysis must be carried out before a political agreement can be reached. I would like to ask Mrs Panduro to tell me what this analysis is about and why it should take so long, for I know that within half an hour you can look up exactly which legislation has been adopted and which we are outside, and the task is so politically to decide on what kind of legislation we want to be in. So what's this analysis work about? Actually, I'd love to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113642	I think it's a little important to take this seriously. If Mrs Lene Espersen thinks that we can look up the legislation in half an hour and find out what we want to be for and not for, then I do not think that conservatives take it very seriously, and I think that is actually regrettable, because that is actually right, I think we have a common interest in doing this well and properly. I just have to remind you that our reservations in this area are from 1992 to 1992. It's been a long time. That's when we won the EM in football. A great deal has happened since then, including in the field of justice, and it is a little bit important that we have a complete overview of the state of police cooperation, or whether that is what we do in relation to terrorists, what the consequences will be of this. I simply do not believe that Mrs Lene Espersen has the full overview of this, and I am actually very confident that the government is saying that we should of course have it. What then is the difference between this government and the governments we have had in the last 10 years before this is that they also had the basis of their government, but now we are actually taking an initiative to get it under review because it is quite important for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113757	Mrs Tina Nedergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113759	Thank you. I think Mrs Lene Espersen made an effort to give the rapporteur an opportunity to elegantly withdraw from the issues of asylum expenditure. I'm not nearly as nice as Mrs. Lene Espersen. So, let us just make it clear that when the Minister for Finance presented his draft budget, he did an honour to say that the speeder should be stepped as hard as the EU rules allow. That means you used rub and stump. Subsequently, it has become apparent that the number of asylum seekers will double in relation to what was expected, and therefore also the cost of asylum. It is therefore the right people who come to Denmark that can then be discussed if it was not inappropriate to make 31 concessions in foreign policy, so that it was doubled. But it is people who come to Denmark who have to be provided for and, as a result of government policy going to school, must have the opportunity to behave in Danish society and, moreover, have all rights. That is why it must be financed. I would ask the rapporteur to explain where it is in the public sector that we need to cut back in order to find the means to cover these statutory costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009113913	I don't want to cut it down. And one of the reasons why that is not the case is that, contrary to the author's party, we have actually put forward a financial law where the money is checked and where there are some buffers too, yes, we do. The questioner's party has put forward a proposal for a financial bill, where you empty all the buffers and pools we have at all, and where you even write such a little hopefully that if the municipalities ask about the price and we reopen the municipal agreements that you are sitting out there right now and have made budgets on the basis of, and that has not been easy, I know, in many places it may be that you might be able to reach a place where it can hang together. It's just pretty. It is particularly nice when you constantly knock out your arms and say that you can easily make zero growth and then you can't even do it in a way, so it's connected for a single year. That is why we must just sweep our own door, and we must do so in particular, when it is the case that with the asylum rules that the Left had, there would have been no fewer people in Denmark. Perhaps there will even be more if the Left will not support the tightening that we are now actually presenting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114023	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114025	Thank you. That is so factually wrong, and I feel no need to answer the question. Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made as excellent as rapporteur for the Left. I have to ask the rapporteur about the money that we are now going to spend extra on asylum in the coming financial year. The extra money probably corresponds largely to the pools that the Minister of Finance has set aside to distribute as gifts to Enhedslisten and SF to get them to vote in favour of a budget bill. So I have to ask the government's rapporteur number one whether this is the message that we can expect the Minister of Finance to pass on to the red parties: unfortunately, there will be no money for any kind of charity with this Finance Act, because thanks to our majority, thanks to the concessions we have made to foreigners, we are now doubling the cost of asylum, and this is the statutory expenditure that we have voted for ourselves, and that is why we have to bear them. Is it the answer to SF and Enhedslisten from the government that there is no crown for distribution, neither for any good purpose, SF and Enhedslisten had to come along? Because there isn't a flat penny to give to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114138	That's not true. But I am sure that SF and Enhedslisten thank you for the concern and concern of the questioner. One might ask the question: does the Left intend to present a new draft budget law? one in which the economy is actually linked, even though all the mayors of the Left say: we cannot reopen the municipal agreement, and no, we cannot find 1.5 billion. kr. extra just like that with a snap? Or is the Left going to table a budget bill which also takes account of the expenditure that the questioner is asking about? For it is the case that in the Left's draft budget there is not a single pool or a single buffer anywhere; they have been emptied and drained. The Left did not put forward a Man presented a large chrome-plated alien initiative, and it was about opening up Denmark to half a billion foreigners who could come here and work if only they could get a job of 18,000 kroner. a month. Massive social dumping, wage pressure on a great many groups of Danish workers that is the answer of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114246	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114250	Thank you. Last Tuesday, I was a happy man. It was fantastic to hear the Prime Minister use a fine, large part of his speech to the Folketing to tell us that we were about to have border controls and that border controls work. The fact that we have reached that point, that we are in agreement on it, is really fantastic. I have spent my time since Tuesday just trying to see what lies in what the government is going to do with border controls. And I have to say that I am a little more in doubt and I would like the rapporteur to be a little helpful in explaining what the government is planning. Because if you read the report that has come from the Ministry of Justice, you can read on page 25 that the recommendations that have been given to the government do not in themselves increase the pressure of control and therefore the recommendations do not entail any additional costs for the police. Then I really doubt whether what I actually thought we agreed on is that border controls work so that there is actually some border control, that is to say that resources are actually being included in the form of more police officers and more customs officers. Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114410	We agree that border controls work. That's how far we can get. Where the agreement between Mr. Peter Skaarup and I probably quit, is about what kind of border control. And it has to be said that what we intend to introduce now is not the old-fashioned border control that the Danish People's Party got through with the Left, with these fine striped booms, and then there should be some customs officers and control. We don't think this is the best way to solve modern crime. We do not believe that this is the best answer to cross-border crime, which I think we are all very concerned about getting in the way of. When we make border controls, it will be in a modern way, among other things. With these license plate scanners, whom I am sure the rapporteur is familiar with, it is possible to do so in a smarter way, in which there is a little less symbolic policy, and in which I think, in fact, is better suited to the kind of crime we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114514	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114516	Well, there's no doubt that I think it's excellent with license plate scanners. And it was also part of what the previous government in 2011, i.e. 3 years ago, wanted to do together with the Danish People's Party. It scraped the current government, and now you've pulled it out again and you want license plate scanners. That's great. However, what I asked, and which the rapporteur did not reply to, was whether resources were included. Because if you say that there must be border controls, whatever the version, then there must surely be some police officers and some customs officers who can carry out that border control. And when you say in the report that I have here and that has been sent out from the Ministry of Justice that this does not in itself result in an increase in the pressure of control, then that is what I am asking: what is it going to mean? So, what will that mean at Copenhagen Airport, where the Prime Minister talked about more control? The wish you have out there is of course 50 office staff who can take care of passport control, and then the police can investigate those who come in with illegal papers. Is there an extra 50 men at the airport? Are there any more cops? Are there any more customsmen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114637	Well, that proposal is about making a better control and a more targeted control and not necessarily about doing more control. If you only want to do more control, and if you only want to put these booms and extra people down at the Danish-German border, then it is a form of control that just risks bothering a lot of ordinary people without being particularly effective. That's what the people who know about it say. That is why I and the government think it is smarter to do so, for example with the license plate scanners, but also by allowing the police to prevent and, on the basis of more general information, to carry out checks, for example, on the basis of very specific suspicions in the past. So I think it is a good thing that controls are being carried out, just as I think it is good that we have together tightened up the penalties for illegal entry. There's been a need for that. But I just don't think the answer is the old-fashioned Bolchestriped Boom, which was very preoccupied with in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114746	Sir. Jacob Jensen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114750	Now there is a reason why there will be a doubling of asylum seekers next year. That is what we understand the government itself estimates it to be and a substantial part of the reason why it is the relaxations that the government has implemented on immigration policy. That is why I think it is reasonable that we should have an answer as to what the extra asylum seekers will cost Danish society next year. If it is not the case that the rapporteur will say so, can she not just say whether she knows what it will cost, so that we can at least have a feeling that the policy of the government is somehow linked? Because, as Mrs Tina Nedergaard rightly says, in the words of the government, the financial bill goes straight to the edge, and when we know that there will be increased expenditure in the area of asylum, we also think it is reasonable to have a sense of the extra cost. In concrete terms: does the rapporteur know how much extra money it costs Danish society to double the number of asylum seekers next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114847	After all, the rapporteur is able to say so many wrong things that it may also be a little bit difficult to answer them all. But to start by saying that the reason why we are seeing an increase in the number of asylum seekers in Denmark is the government's policy, I actually think is a little fantastic that one would be familiar at all. Well, I think everyone has discovered, and I even think that most of the bourgeois members of parliament have also discovered that some very violent things are happening in the world. This means that we have the largest number of refugees worldwide since World War II; there are more than 50 million people on the run. If it did not also affect Denmark, it would in fact be a little strange. The government then has the position to help take responsibility for people who are in need, people who are in danger of life. We also have the view that there are limits to how many we can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114951	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009114954	Yeah, but now I also said that's one of the reasons. I recognise, of course, that the world is evolving, but the Minister for Justice himself has also said that, of course, the conditions mean something to whether you come to one country or you come to the other country. So I assume the rapporteur agrees with me on that. And when the government has implemented 31 facilitations in the field of foreigners, it has been part of the reason why the government itself estimates a doubling of the number of asylum seekers next year. That is why I simply ask quite quietly: does the Social Democrat rapporteur know what the extra asylum seekers will cost the Danish society next year? yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115026	We have not completed 31 relaxations. We have completely continued the rules for obtaining asylum which applied at the time when the author's party was in government. Now we have proposed that we make a further tightening so that the rules become more stringent than they were during the reign of the author's party. Of course, you have to consider that it costs some money when people come here... everything else would be blue-eyed... so does the Minister of Finance. In fact, some buffers have been put into this in our financial act. a situation like this. There is no such thing in the proposal presented by the Left. And since the Left has not proposed a single tightening of the asylum rules, not even in their big chrome-plated alien initiative from this summer, which instead was about opening the barn gate for people to come here and exert social dumping and wage pressure on Danish employees, I assume that the Left will now also present a completely new financial bill. Then it might even be one that hung together in this round; that would be refreshing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115137	Sir. Jonas Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115143	The Social Democrat President stated at the Congress that the unemployment benefit reform is bad, but that it remains after election. At the same time, the Social Democrats' chairman warned against Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Quote: Remember, Løkke doesn't care. That's what she said in her convention speech. Does the Socialist rapporteur not think that it is a little bit to gamble with the Danish model on the labour market and the thousands of people who have lost the right to unemployment benefit when you postpone a solution to the other side of an election where, unfortunately, the Prime Minister could go and be Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115221	I think we should safeguard our special Danish labour market model. It is actually one of the most beautiful things about Denmark. That is why I think that we should not pre-empt what that Commission brings with it, where among other things. representatives of the social partners are those who have the most understanding in our labour market. I think that we should not make very quick solutions, because, said in all silence, that is what happened last time. After all, it happened that sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl came walking in the glass doors over at the Treasury, opened the doors and said: Hey guys, I have a fresh idea. And then he proposed doubling the recovery period and halving the benefit period. So I just want to warn against making solutions overnight in this area, because I don't think that went very well last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115316	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115319	After all, it cannot be said that it is over the night that changes need to be made. The reform was adopted in 2010, and now we write autumn 2014. And now we have to wait a year before we even have to talk about it if it was up to the Socialists. So you could say that that night has lasted a long time. Perhaps it is time to get out of the darkness, so to speak. However, if the Social Democrats are opposed to the loss of benefit, it is also positive that the Danish People's Party, even though it was they who invented the reform, has changed course and that a broad political majority in the Parliamentary Assembly actually wants to solve the problem now. That's why I get a little insecure too. Because the Socialists would rather leave the right to serve to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the man who at the time led the knife to the benefit system, rather than acting now that you are actually sitting at the end of the table and may pattern a majority to, for example, a halving of the earning period to the daily allowance. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115418	May I not say at the outset that I have not said and I have not heard other Socialists say that we should not talk about it. The questioner must, for my sake, talk about exactly what he wants. I wouldn't dream of preventing anyone from doing that. But I also think it's very relevant to talk about. We have done the same ourselves. We've been preoccupied with it. That is why I am quite glad that we have also worked together to find solutions for those people who, if they had been able to do so, would have been able to do so. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's reform, those who invented it after two years, and the two years have passed, would have been potentially without any support, i.e. with zero crowns per month. Because we have taken responsibility for ourselves and because we have been able to make agreements and are the sort with which we can make agreements, we have actually ensured that people are provided for. I absolutely do not intend to leave the right to serve in either this or any other area to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. It is my clear ambition, then, that when the recommendations of the benefit commission come and when we have come through a choice, it is socialists who sit at the top of the table and that it is the left side of the Chamber who has the right to serve. I think we should work towards this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115536	We can make one more brief comment, Mr President. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115546	Thank you. I can feel the rapporteur's karma all the way down here, and on that karma I can see that there is simply something in the area of asylum that we need to have drilled out a tiny bit. After all, it is thought-provoking that the government has downgraded its expectations of the Danish economy five times. At the same time, expectations for the number of asylum seekers have been raised five times. First it was 4,500, then it was 7,500, then it was 10,000, then it was 14,000, and now it's 20,000. And I wonder if there is a risk that this figure will increase even further, so that you will have to make a sixth adjustment while at the same time running financially on the edges in relation to the rules that the EU lays down for the Danish economy. The rapporteur says here that there are some buffers in the Finance Act. My question to the rapporteur is specific: are it the buffers that are intended to finance the increase in the number of asylum seekers and the economic challenges involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115649	Thank you for your concern. We'll finance that. In other words, contrary to the Finance Bill proposed by the author of the question, ours is not already with a deficit. And I just look forward to seeing the financial bill that the Left will present now that the old one has expired. For that is the case, I assume that the Left Finance Bill is based on the old growth estimates, so I would say that already here we are on the verge. Then the Left has also emptied all the buffers that we have put in, which, of course, means that there is room for manoeuvre. The Left has emptied them. In addition, the Left operates with 2 billion. kr., 1.5 billion. kr. from the municipalities, which cannot be done at all. In addition, the Left has not put forward a single proposal to tighten up the asylum rules. So we have to assume that with the Left there would have been at least as many asylum seekers, perhaps even more, if the Left does not intend to support our proposals for tightening up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115754	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115758	I would like to say to Mrs Maja Panduro that I understand all that. I understand that Maja Panduro believes that the Left has not financed this expenditure pressure. What I am just asking is: will the government finance the costs associated with the increase in the number of asylum seekers, which is perhaps 20 000, which may be higher? Will you finance the expenditure via the buffers that have been inserted into your draft financial regulation 'yes' or 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115827	We'll fund any expenses. That is what our Minister of Finance is doing, and I think that Mr. Martin Geertsen knows. It is in stark contrast to what the Left is doing. It is very beautiful that we are also concerned with growth estimates and perhaps, I hope, are not trying to conjure up some connection in the fact that there have been five downward adjustments to the growth estimate and five upward adjustments to the number of asylum seekers. I would very much like to hear more about that from the questioner, at least if he thinks it is connected in that way. You just have to say that we have actually managed to create growth in this society. We have positive growth. We have jobs that are increasing. We have an unemployment rate falling. Consumer confidence is rising. Exports go up. All this is more than what could be achieved, since it was the Left who was responsible for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009115922	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00. It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party starting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009130000	The sitting is resumed. We have reached the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009130020	Thank you. The Prime Minister must be glad you miss her. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the opening statement on Tuesday. I think it is part of such a debate here that we remind each other that what happened last Tuesday is a celebration of our democracy, of our people's rule. The fact that the Folketing opens every first Tuesday in October reminds us all that we should be happy that we live in a country where there is democracy, where there is popular government, and where there are some very good traditions about it too, and we saw that on Tuesday, also with the support of our lovely royal family, which was in here, and there were flowers all over the place. At least I thought that was the day of the feast as it should be. Even at a time when there are quite large problems around the world, we must rejoice at the things we can enjoy in Danish society. I would also like to say, in relation to the content of the opening statement, that there were certainly also places where there were positive bars. I would like to say that when it comes to the elderly, I was glad that this year the Prime Minister had chosen to include the elderly in the opening speech, as opposed to last year, when there was no mention of the elderly in one word. Perhaps this is because an appropriation of 1 billion has been found since then. kr. for the elderly in the Finance Act for this year. However, we have discussed and would also like to discuss today, in connection with the opening debate, that it seems that the municipalities are saving more in the area of the elderly than they are getting, so that there is a net reduction in the area of the elderly from last year to this year in the municipalities. And that's not good. That is why, in our draft budget for next year, we are proposing to use what we call a genuine elderly billion, which will then only come out to the municipalities if we guarantee that the money will be spent on top of the level we have this year, so that it will be a real improvement in the conditions of the elderly. When it comes to health, I was also pleased that the Prime Minister mentioned much about health in his opening statement. We are very happy to negotiate with the government about improvements in the health sector, including in relation to cancer, which is of course extremely important. We also think that some things should be added to what the government is talking about. We see with concern when these new hospitals are now being built that you don't seem to have enough beds. After all, we already have the problem and have had it for a long time that there are sick people who are being put out on walkways and elsewhere, and this is not a dignified way of treating sick people in our society. That is why it is not good for us to build up a new hospital structure, where there are fewer beds to help the sick compared to what was originally expected to be there. It's a matter of planning to close down 30%. of bedrooms until 2020. It is quite violent in a situation where the municipalities are not ready to replace anything else. When we look at the hospital structure, we see that there is also a need to discuss food and something as basic as food. We know how important it is that I had almost said in everyday life, but it is especially so when you are ill. Four of the six new so-called super-sickhouses built are built without what is called production kitchens, i.e. without the possibility of producing food itself. It also seems paradoxical, therefore, that this is the way in which we organise our welfare societies. So these are some things we would very much like to discuss with the government. I would also like to say that I thought it was a good thing that the Prime Minister mentioned the volunteers in his opening statement. There is no doubt that there are a great many who in Danish society make a huge effort every day as a volunteer. Elders The case has an entire network that makes sure that many older people who would otherwise be lonely and sit left behind, without someone sometimes rang the door or called by phone, are not so alone because this network is set up. This is something that we must very much appreciate. We must appreciate the night owls that ensure young people's walk around the night by creating security in nightlife. We must appreciate all the volunteers in sport who are making a huge effort for young people and others. So there are plenty of things that are important to mention, and of course I am glad that they remained in the Prime Minister's opening statement, and I would also like to do so here today. I would also like to say, and we have been discussing this a great deal since Tuesday, that there are some positive tactics to detect in the government's policy on foreigners. It is as if over the last few weeks there has been a recognition in the government of the need for a fundamental change in Denmark's asylum policy and immigration policy. There has been a recognition that the rules we have in Denmark actually have an impact on the number that is coming. This is something we have been discussing for a long time, and we have been told that relaxing the rules in Denmark has no impact on how many people come to Denmark. We can now understand that the government has put a different line and makes it clear that it has an influence. Therefore, you can also do something about the number by changing the rules here in Denmark. Of course, I think it is very good. It is also good that there has been a recognition that the number is relevant. Clearly, there is something that means that the number of people who apply to Denmark can also be too large for the government, and then you have to act. It is also new, for it has been difficult in the past to have a discussion about whether the number can simply be too large; that it can simply be too much. It is obviously possible now, and of course it is also a recognition which is very good. It may also come because the policy that has been pursued has some economic consequences. So it was estimated that 7 500 asylum seekers will be coming to Denmark this year, and there is the bill of 1.4 billion. kr. When it was adjusted up to 10,000, the bill was 2.9 billion. kr. Now it is estimated that perhaps 20 000 asylum seekers will be coming this year, and a bill of 4.1 billion is expected. kr. It is money that has to be taken out of the money we could otherwise spend on the elderly or hospitals or the educational system, or whatever else we spend money on, so this has a huge effect. That's why maybe it's some of what's got the government to see that it's not gonna work like this. The fact that there have then been some slips on the way there, I will only spend a few seconds on it, because we should be pleased that we have come here. So, in June, in principle, we said no to this issue of more temporary asylum; in September, we suddenly said yes to the possibility of such a temporary arrangement, but in September it was also said that when it came to the family reunification rules, they should not be changed. Those who came here under the new temporary scheme were subject to the family reunification rules which have always been in force. But in the opening speech on Tuesday there had again been a new break, because the Prime Minister said that the family reunification rules should not apply to these people who come on the new system. So it can indeed be said that in recent weeks the government has moved on to the issue of immigration. I think it is absolutely necessary that the recognition that the rules in force are not in order has spread within the government. And that's good, of course. What is then the question is whether the rules proposed by the government are sufficient. And there we may just have to say that they are not, but perhaps they can be in one week or 14 days or in three weeks' time, because things are moving. It is clear that with the bill that has been announced we have not seen it, but we have listened to what it contains, it is something about making a tightening, but a tightening for less than a third of, for example. the Syrians who come to Denmark. If you look at it in relation to the Syrians who have come here, and if you imagine that the same people came again, it would be less than a third of those who would be covered by the new rules, as we can understand it and more than two thirds would not be. And if there's 20,000, that's about. 14,000 of those who come will not be covered by the new rules. They are covered by the old rules, including family reunification, etc. At the same time, it is incomprehensible that it takes a long time for the government. If you imagined it was important for the government that it was really important to make the rules about how it might be that you announce something three weeks ago, but that a bill will only come in perhaps a month's time? We remember that the Folketing was approx. A week to send F-16s on their wings. It was a very, very serious decision to make. That's why it seems weird that this is gonna take so long. It is the same when we talk about Syrian warriors, i.e. the people from Denmark who go to Syria, for example, and fight. Here the government has announced that there must be tighter conditions, that they must be able to take away the basis of residence so that they cannot return again and that, in certain situations, the passport must be removed from them. That proposal should also be thought to be important and that it would come quickly. That's what the government has announced will come around Christmas time. These are things that are a little incomprehensible to us. That is why, today, at the opening debate, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to convene Parliament's parties, in order to reach a national compromise on asylum policy and a change in Denmark's asylum policy, simply recognising that, when we live in a world of over 50 million refugees, it requires a really radical change in Denmark's refugee policy in order to be able to help the best. After all, we have hundreds of thousands of refugees sitting in different camps close to the areas where wars are raging. It seems paradoxical that those we help best are those who can afford to pay a smuggler to come to Denmark instead of looking at how we help the most. That is why it is our prayer that such a debate is called for and that the movement that the government has set up is a movement that is allowed to continue in the right direction; that at some point it can crystallise in an agreement between the parties of the Danish Parliament, which significantly changes the Danish asylum policy, so that the intention is to help as much as possible, instead of as it is today, where it is a little coincidence, that we are helping those who can find enough money and resources to pay a smuggler perhaps DKK 60,000-70,000. to get to Denmark and then get significantly better conditions compared to the countrymen who are left in the refugee camps under more pitiful conditions. I hope that the Prime Minister will respond positively to this when she comes up here later this day and has to respond to our speeches by the rapporteurs, so that we have the opportunity to initiate such a change. There are a lot of other things in such an opening statement that it might be exciting to address: the legal reservation was mentioned, and there is the economic situation in general with the constant depreciation of the growth estimates carried out by the government; there are the wise men who said yesterday that they must downgrade the growth estimate from 1.5%. at 0.5%. Where is the change of mood that the Prime Minister announced a year ago? These are some things that it might also be interesting to discuss, but time is limited, so that is what I had chosen to say in my introduction, and then I look forward to the debate that will follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131147	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131151	Thank you. I'll cut to the chase. During the first reading of the 2013 Finance Act, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and I quote: "The crucial thing for us is that before an election the Left, and it has also been our call to the Left here in the last month, very clearly recognizes the logic of moving towards a parliamentary election as an opposition, clearly tells the Danes what kind of policy they can expect to be followed after an election. - Can you, sir? - Yes, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl now clearly tell us what the opposition is going to vote for the growth of public consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131227	No, I cannot, and that says just like itself; despite the fact that Mrs Maja Panduro knows the answer to the question, she still asks it. We look differently at what real growth should be available in the public sector. I think that is quite clear and nobody has tried to hide it. On the contrary, I think it is actually clear to everyone, and that means it is clear to the Danes. In this way, you have the opportunity to orient yourself in the landscape and find out who you want to support. And, of course, it is also the strength of the parties, following a forthcoming parliamentary elections, that will determine with what force one can work to get its policy through.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131307	Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131308	But what is then not clear to the Danes is what it is in any way that you can count on if you vote for one of the parties in the blue bloc, for example. On Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti. It is fair enough that one wants to confine itself to answering for oneself, even though one says here in the quotation that it makes sense, as an opposition, to present a plan. But Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti as quiet as demands of Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen that public consumption should grow by 0.8%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) under the Financial Instrument for
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131348	I would like to say two things. One is that if you ask the four parties that point to a new Prime Minister in connection with a parliamentary election to be able to present such a coherent economic policy that is the same, it might be funny to ask Mrs Maja Panduro 'I might have the opportunity to do so later in the day in another round', on the same demand, then the parties that point to the current Prime Minister. Because I understand that there is quite a difference between the economic policy of the SR government and the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten, but that does not prevent the four parties from agreeing on one thing, namely that the Prime Minister should be Prime Minister in Denmark. That's the way it is. It was almost a Mrs Margrethe Vestager quote I made there. The second point I would like to make is that we do not intend to make ultimate demands in pointing out a new Prime Minister. We do not do so because we believe that it is necessary for us to have a greater direct political influence, for there to be a change of government. Then it is the struggle after that that, also in relation to the strength the voters want to give the Danish People's Party, determines to what extent we can then put our policy through. There, of course, I hope for the strong support of the Danes, so it is as much as possible of the Danish People's Party's policy that can be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131505	Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131508	Thank you. Well, now it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself, who has said that it must be made very clear to the Danes before a choice, what one can comply with after a choice. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that it is clear to the Danes what kind of plan a Left-led government supported by the Danish People's Party will put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131533	It is, of course, a very good question, i.e. whether the Danes are aware of what other parties than my own think. Well, this is tricky. I would like to say that I am making a great effort to tell the Danes what the Danish People's Party's policy is, what we stand for, and what we would like to see implemented, so that the Danes are aware that if they cross the list O, the Danish People's Party, they will have a fight for the policy that we stand for. That's the way it is. Then there are other parties which put forward a different policy. In some areas, the Danes will be able to see 'in relation to the legal policy, which we have had something common about, and in relation to some value policy issues; at least there are some things in the area of asylum, etc. And then it is on an election day, for example. must choose whether to vote on the Radical Left or whether to vote on the SF or the Enhedslisten. After all, voters must do away with themselves, whoever they want to give the vote, and what kind of politics should then have after a parliamentary election. There, of course, I hope for strong support for the Danish People's Party so that we can push our policy through. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131643	Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131646	One of the areas where there is a great difference is, of course, the extent to which more needs to be spent in the public sector. How important is it for the Danish People's Party to be able to maintain its desire for 0.8% growth in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131706	I think it is important to remember that the reason we landed at 0.8%. In real terms, it is such a bit technical in 2011, when we made a common economic plan up to 2020, was that it was our assessment that this was what was needed when more elderly people, more hospital costs, better medicine to be paid for in relation to the Danes' expectations and needs. And that's why we've stuck to the fact that it's the right thing to do. So that is the assessment we have, namely that that is what needs to be done, even when there are more elderly people in our society, more care costs and such things. That is why we have, it might be said, held quite firmly to the objective of this wish, even though other parties have subsequently chosen to go to the next elections with a different policy. So it's not such a number that's pulled out of a random drawer. It is, after all, a figure based on a real assessment of what was necessary. We can then see that the current governing parties thought that something more was needed at the time because it was necessary. Today they believe that less is enough. That's how things can change.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131815	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131819	According to the polls, the Danish People's Party appears to be a relatively large party after the next parliamentary elections, and you have said in advance that you are pointing to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, who has said on several occasions, only here today, that he does not want to be Prime Minister if there is no zero growth, and that a new unemployment benefit must not cost a single penny more. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Will the Danish People's Party be part of or support a government which pursues zero growth policies in the public sector and which does not half the recovery requirement for the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131904	Well, we're pointing at Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, and that has nothing to do with the other things, and then we will fight for our policy. I really believe that the same is true of what it does when it comes to the current Prime Minister, who also hopes that the SF and Enhedslisten will support her without them having the ultimate demand for what kind of policy she is going to pursue. After all, it is the strength of an election that determines whether it is possible for us to get our policy through. I very much hope that it can, but it also depends on whether the Danes will support us. One could just turn it around and imagine that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said to herself: I will only support the present Prime Minister as Prime Minister if I get the ultimate demand that the recovery requirement for the allowance be halved. But Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr does not say that; she says that she supports the present Prime Minister, whether or not she wants to halve the recovery requirement, and that is of course interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131958	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009131959	Now you have to look at the overall policy, I would say to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And when you look at the overall policy, the Danish People's Party says that you will spend more money on the public sector and that you will have a better unemployment benefit solution. These are two quite important elements of overall policy, and that is why it is obvious to ask whether it is possible to draw attention to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, without getting any of this through, about what our future welfare should be, and about a daily allowance solution. So I just want to hear briefly and very precisely, it's actually a yes or no question: will Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl pointed to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, even though these two things don't come through?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132044	The short answer is, of course, that we are pointing to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as prime minister after the next election, and we do so without any pre-requisites. We do so in the same way as I did when we were sitting at the top of the Crowne Plaza and negotiating government bases, did not hear anything about the question of Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen being asked what she had to do to become a government. I believe that the present government formed its government, knowing that the Enhedslisten would support it, just as the SF supports the current government, although they do not agree with all its proposals. Similarly, in the Danish People's Party, we estimate that our way to greater influence in Danish politics is to have a change of government. And then it is our influence after that that determines whether we can get our policy through; it depends, of course, on whether the Danes will give us a lot of support and whether or not we are able to place ourselves, so that we among other things. can talk to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about the benefit issue. We are doing so now, under the current government, and in this way we want to use all the opportunities we have to push our policy through. That is what I, as chairman of the Danish People's Party, am set to ensure to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132149	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132150	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, the Left has come up with an alien initiative which, seen with our glasses and the spectacles of many others, means opening a barn gate for massive social dumping, because the Left will say that all foreigners can enter and work on the Danish labour market if only they can get a yearly salary of DKK 215,000. This would mean a huge increase in competition for unskilled jobs, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the rapporteur vote yes or no on such a proposal from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132236	The starting point is no. In other words, we have made it clear that we want companies to be able to take in labour from outside, if they lack labour, so that we want to regulate it in a different way. For what is crucial for us is that we use the available labour we have in Denmark first, also in those situations where we try to train ourselves for a better labour force. So it is clear that we want a situation where you have the opportunity to take labour from outside, if you cannot find the labour force in Denmark. But that is the guiding principle for us. It is clear that if you want to open up the labour market in such a way as to say that the current government has done in relation to Eastern Europe, where you are opening up a labour force which is able to get to Denmark in areas where we actually have labour ourselves, there is a risk that it will lead to wage printing and in fact to a deterioration in conditions for the Danes who are also working in low-wage areas. And it's not something we like.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132332	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132333	I would like to hear a little more about what is in the words as a starting point. Let us now say that this is the employment situation we have today, where incredibly many thousands of people, not least unskilled people, have a lot of difficulty in finding a job. Let us say that this is the situation we also have after a parliamentary election. Will the Danish People's Party then support the Left's proposal in this area, or will the Danish People's Party not support it? I think it is a little important that the electorate, all of us, should have a very clear answer to that question, because if you look at the total financial act of the Left, you can see that it is an important crux of the whole of the Left's proposal. So can we get a clear answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132417	However, I have made it very clear, and our rapporteur has also done so in the past, that we do not think that the limit is right and that we do not believe that it ensures that those who come to Denmark are people we actually need, that is that we cannot provide the workforce ourselves. What is important for the Danish People's Party is that this should make economic sense, even for our country as a whole, so it is all about the fact that the labour that comes from outside is a labour that we do not have, so it complements us in some areas where we would otherwise lack labour. But it is clear, as we can also see in the case of Eastern Europe, that if there are 100,000 Eastern Europeans coming to Denmark and a large part of them working in areas where there are Danes who would have the opportunity to take the jobs in question, then it is all a bad business for, you might say, Denmark as a whole economy. So that's not gonna work. That's the kind of thing we're fighting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132509	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132513	The other day, I went to my local S train station, and there were two big commercials hanging on what is in modern English called outdoor commercials with pictures of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and with three messages. They said more jobs, more police, better welfare. And that was good and lovely. However, I am still puzzled by the fact that we have had this term of office for three years now, and I have not actually heard any concrete proposals from the Danish People's Party that will increase employment in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance puts forward many proposals that will increase employment in Denmark, but it is actually rare that the Danish People's Party supports them. So there is now the possibility for Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to tell what proposals Dansk Folkeparti has on the program that will increase employment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132605	I am actually glad that we are also going to make a determined effort to do so, because, for example, if we take the initiative. the discussion we had this summer about the lack of growth in Denmark, then I can say that we entered into the negotiations that the government called for, starting from the fact that energy costs should be lower for our companies, because we can see that one of the places where we go out or where we have problems • many companies say that they have too high a cost, too high a cost is on the energy side. After all, we actually achieved some results, but some results that we are uncertain about can be translated into effect, because this suggests that the European Union is rejecting the fact that we can implement these cost reductions for companies. So it will then be obvious later in the debate to get the government's bid on what is happening in that case. Can companies expect to have the cost reductions they are looking for or will it not happen because of the European Union? We have also had discussions over the last few months about our food industry, the agricultural industry. After all, we were delighted at the arrival of a new minister, probably a year ago, who said that now the agricultural industry really needs to be increased. There were jobs and growth in the agricultural industry. We do, of course, have the proposals of the Nature and Agriculture Commission for a change that would make it possible to actually create growth in the agricultural industry. I think that is something that is obvious to start with, and I would like to call on the government to take it much more seriously. Because there are opportunities for Denmark in such an area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132729	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132730	Now it is a well-known matter, because it has been in the government's own papers, that the growth packages that we have adopted here, although they are small steps in the right direction, are only very small and the employment effect, as can be seen in the calculators, is extremely small. So I had actually expected that there was something more on the slip from Dansk Folkeparti here. When Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl talks about reducing energy taxes, it is true that it could increase competitiveness in Denmark. But the prerequisite for reducing energy taxes is, of course, to give funding to reduce them. And there I have also looked in vain for proposals from the Danish People's Party to where it is that you do not need so much money to finance lower energy taxes. The money's got to be there, but they've got to be there. Kristian Thulesen Dahl perhaps with today: a financing of lower energy taxes so that we can actually get more jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132822	Well, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is an active member of parliament, so I certainly do not think it has escaped his attention that we have been advocating for many years that we should have lower investments in renewable energy in Denmark. After all, it is the bill that has to be paid subsequently, which is reflected in a higher cost level. Part of the agreement this summer was also to withdraw some of the investments planned, simply to create space to facilitate the costs of companies. So the point of saying that we did not point out that total costs could be eased, that is, where the money should come from, is not true. Because it acts, among other things. on the fact that there are some costs to the conversion to renewable energy, which we believe are coming too quickly, thereby putting Denmark's competitiveness at a disadvantage. So we have quite precisely indicated that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132911	Mrs Lene Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009132915	I venture a little on the slippery side and choose to do something quite unusual, namely to ask questions about something, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has talked about today, and not something that has been pre-fabricated somewhere, and that is about something that has been said years ago. There has been a lot of debate today on border controls, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also mentioned. After all, the Conservative People's Party and the Left made an agreement to strengthen border controls with the Danish People's Party before the government changed. It was then dropped by the current government, but now it is included in the law catalogue. Now it's all of a sudden intelligent and targeted. I really would like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl evaluates what the difference is between what the government brings in and what was dropped as VKO decided a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133005	That is a good question, because it is really a little difficult to know exactly what the government is bringing in. What we have been able to see so far is that there is a headline called something about border controls and that it is obviously now good and that it can be used. I would like to say that I am pleased that the government has come to that realization. Then we're gonna need license plate scanners. It was included in the 2011 package. Well, it was scrapped in 2011. Apparently, here in 2014 it is a good tool to pull forward again. The money for it disappeared in 2011. Now they have to be found again in 2014. In addition, however, it is difficult to see whether there is a genuinely strengthened control, because what is crucial, whether you build it up using electronics or whether you build it up using the proposal we made together back in 2011, and where there are some physical installations at the borders, is of course whether there are really more controls, i.e. whether some people can actually carry out that control, so that those who have criminal behaviour and cross borders have a greater risk of being caught. There it is difficult to see what is concrete of additional resources for border control in the government's proposal. How many increased controls will take place with the government's proposals? I hope, then, that the Prime Minister will be able to reply to that perhaps later in the debate when she has the floor. I think that would be very useful, and there is still time for the Prime Minister to get that knowledge so that she can enrich the Folketing with it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133134	Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133135	I'd like to thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for making me so much smarter on this question. Well, what was a bad idea three years ago is suddenly intelligent if you put it in the drawer and leave it there for three years. I mean, it gives completely new perspectives on how we conduct politics here in the Folketing, if things just have to be hidden out of the way. But I thank you very much for your answer, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't have to comment again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133157	Maybe I just wanted to say that there was a reporter out front who, when I was going in, asked me if I thought that parliamentary elections were being held. Then I pulled on the smile tape and I thought there might not be. But on the other hand, when you see what things are being pulled out of the drawer, you would have liked the following thought to have spread in government offices: do we not, however, have something that the Danes will like and that we could hurry to come here at the last minute? So it is clear that when you hear about changes in asylum policy, when you hear about border controls being introduced and things like that, that we in the Danish People's Party must praise the Prime Minister for bringing up on Tuesday, you might get the idea that they are starting to think that there will soon be parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133235	Sir. Ole Hækkerup for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133237	If you made such a whole list of everything you could possibly imagine the population would ever like, it could be that you reached a total bill of about 170 billion. kr. But let it go. I will try to ask you something else about what we have been through in the past, namely what kind of policy you can imagine what I do not want to see happen to a blue majority. I think most people have an intuitive feeling that it can be a little difficult to get the Danish People's Party's policy to be linked both to the desire of Conservatives and Liberal Alliance to make tax cuts and then, of course, the wish of the Left in between about zero growth. I'm telling you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that there are some voters in this country who are being enriched with an idea of how that situation should be tackled before elections take place?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133328	I can't help but say something about the first thing. I understand that the Social Democratic Party has chosen to be very bastant in demanding that we at least do not have our sewers renovated; it really is one of the things that is on the list of things that Social Democrats always pull out and say cost too much money to renovate. So you don't want to hear about that. To the question of what the Danes can expect: What the Danes can at least expect from the Danish People's Party is that we tell in very clear language what we are fighting for, what we stand for politically. We are not masters of what other parties do. We can put our policy forward, and then we can tell the Danes that we will be following a parliamentary election so that we can get the most out of the policy we stand for. And if the current government continues, we will do everything we can to influence it. We will also use the opportunities we have to talk to other parties in order to put pressure on the government and get our policy implemented. If there is a majority for a change, yes, we will press the government that may be formed after a change. But it is also clear that it is the support for the Danish People's Party that the Danes give us that decides with what power we can do it. And we cannot guarantee in advance that it will be exactly that way and that way, because we do not know that. We don't know. That depends on the strength with which we enter the Folketing after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133444	Ole Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133445	But that's why it might be that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, when sitting in his chamber of employment, had given some thought: how in the name of heaven could this ever come together, and what pressure is it that would put me under? That is why my question is this: does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to reconcile some expectations of what kind of policy should be pursued internally in the blue bloc before we reach a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133513	I hope that the other parties will come to the realization that the Danish People's Party's policy is exactly the right one, and then say to the electorate: Now we can see that you were quite right about that, and that is why there is now a great realization and a breadth behind the Danish People's Party's policy. One example: in the area of border controls, on which Mrs Lene Espersen and I have just exchanged views, we also had the Left on board until the spring, when the Left took a slightly different course exactly in relation to the border control agreement we made in 2011. I have the hope that at some point the Left will say again: the agreement we made at that time was probably not so crazy. It is probably very good to have it implemented. I mean, it's just one way of saying that I hope that there will be such clarification. But if that clarification is that I should say that we are tearing the politics of the Danish People's Party apart, then it will not come because we do not. The reason why we say what we do is because we mean what we say in relation to the elderly, our hospitals and the things we have also talked about earlier today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133620	Mrs Lotte Rod for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133623	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has said a while ago, and I quote again: "The crucial thing for us is that before an election the Left, and it has also been our call to the Left here for the last month, very clearly recognizes the logic of moving towards a parliamentary election as an opposition clearly tells the Danes what kind of policy they can expect to be followed after an election. ▪ Invites Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl continued Left to present an overall economic plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133657	You can say two things to that. One is that the Left should do what the Left thinks is right. I mean, basically, I do not have to control what the Left has to do, nor do I have to control what other parties have to do. In relation to being strong in relation to a forthcoming parliamentary election, it is clear that in the clearer language one speaks; the more the Danes feel secure about what they hear; the more the Danes think that there is conviction in what they say; the more chance there is, of course, to get the Danes' support in a forthcoming parliamentary election. When I want to see a change of government in the next elections, because I think that is where the Danish People's Party will have the best opportunity for influence, I hope, of course, that those who will participate in it will be strong. That goes without saying. Otherwise, the prerequisite for a change of government is not there. But I'm not the master of it, and I don't have to decide what other parties have to do either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133750	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133752	That was not my question either. My question is this: does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl Left to present an overall economic plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133803	No, and that's not what I did there in the quote. What I am calling for is to speak in a clear language. It is, of course, that you put some clear things over the Danes that the Danes can relate to. And what that means is, after all, a question between the party in question and the Danes. It is clear that I think we all have an obligation to do so, and we are at least endeavouring to do so in the Danish People's Party in relation to our communication, our speech to the Danes, so the Danes are aware of what a policy we stand for and what a policy they vote for if they choose to vote for the Danish People's Party on election day.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133836	Mrs Trine Bramsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133839	It wasn't really a very clear answer, so I'm gonna try it again. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself said that as an opposition, a clear plan must be put forward as to what kind of policy the Danes can expect to follow after an election. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl still that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009133903	Well, we just need to be sure what we're talking about. Are we talking about an overall plan that contains compromises between parties about what that block will do overall? That is not the call I have made in the past, nor is it the call I am going to make today. If it is a question of making clear recommendations to the Danes as a candidate for Prime Minister, which one then also has the expectation that one will be able to implement after an election, then I think it is a good idea. Because then the Danes get a sense of the direction in which they go. The extent to which it can then be implemented depends on how good you are in relation to other parties and what they think and whether you think you will be able to get through with it. I am not in control of that; I am not the candidate for Prime Minister. That's the way it is. So I just want to say that it depends on what we're talking about. If we are talking about a comprehensive plan, an economic plan, such as: The government parties, the SF and the Enhedslisten are all behind it, and on the basis of which they will say to the Danes: If you re-elect the majority, then this is where you will get the.no, I don't count on it from the SR government, the SF and the Enhedslisten. Nor do I call for it to be given to those parties that want a change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134007	Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134008	But sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl then answered clearly whether it can be done both on the one hand to have a growth in public consumption of 0.8%. and on the other hand have zero growth? Can both be done at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134023	This is one of those questions which, if we sent it over to a minister, I think we would just get back with the answer: you must be able to find out for yourself. In other words, whether you can get two different growth rates at the same time, if it's the same thing you measure on that, I don't think you can. That goes without saying. Similarly, when there are parties that went to elections on a real growth rate of 1.4 per cent and which today say 0.6 per cent, you cannot get both 1.4 and 0.6 at the same time. You can't do that. So I think that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134058	Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134103	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I have previously discussed the leaflet here, which is the fold of the Danish People's Party with 11 initiatives in the area of the elderly. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also knows that there are many sympathetic suggestions in this, but we still have one outstanding about where the money should come from. In the Danish People's Party's draft budget, 1 billion has been set aside. kr. In the case of older people, the Ministry of Finance has calculated that the proposals in this leaflet will cost 8 billion. kr. What is the proposal that is being implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134146	It is absolutely true that in the financial law for 2015, we are going to discuss this autumn, we are proposing that what we call a genuine elderly billion be set aside. For the billion that was given to the municipalities for the elderly this year has been eroded by the fact that overall there seems to be greater savings in the municipalities in the area of older people than the money they have been given. It's a negative overall for the elderly. That is why we think there is a need for more money next year. And what we're focusing on is the cash care time with the elderly. We believe that there is a need to look at this after a number of years when the number of home help hours available for care-intensive elderly people has been reduced. So there is a need for there to be a little more room for the elderly who need help, and that is why we also believe that more money should be set aside for it. And so it is quite right: Does it meet the wishes of the Danish People's Party in the area of the elderly? No, it doesn't. That is why we will also see that the following year we will be making proposals for the benefit of the elderly, just as we did in the 00s, when, year after year, we fought for improvements in the area of the elderly in relation to the VK governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134251	Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134253	Well, there's definitely a big leap from 1 billion. kr. and up to the 8 billion. kr., as there are promises on here. I understand, then, that it is something that must come dripping and maybe something along the way. But that means that there may be older people who have died from this before you even get to the end of the long list here. Can the rapporteur point out several things that will be expected to come in the immediate vicinity of 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134324	It is a bit funny that a Social Democrat is asking me to fund these wishes. We have discussed earlier today that expenditure in the area of asylum appears to increase from expected 1.4 billion. kr., if there were 7,500, to 4.1 billion. kr. We know from the Rockwool Foundation earlier this year that if there are 5,000 more non-western immigrants coming to Denmark, then it puts a burden on the public funds. kr. a year. It is just to say that in those situations we are not told where the money should come from; there says the Social Democrats nothing that can be answered about it; we must take it. The money comes from where they usually go, Mrs Panduro said in reply to my question earlier today. But exactly when it comes to the conditions of the elderly and we say that we have some visions on behalf of the elderly; we want better conditions for the elderly, and we think that should come as we can find the money for it, it is a big, big problem that we cannot, in my almost said year 0, indicate how the whole package will be implemented over the coming years. I think that is paradoxical.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134421	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134424	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said earlier that the people were entitled to clear speech and to know what they stood for as a party. But I don't think it's quite clear what DF stands for if you have ultimate requirements or don't have ultimate requirements. For Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that one would bring one's policy to the table and then negotiate and see what one would get out of it. But back in August Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: We are not going to contribute to a policy where there is zero growth for many years. That sounds pretty ultimate. In August there was also a front page in the Berlingske Tidende, where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl made it very clear that he would make demands of Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, if the government were to change. That's why I just think that the home helper who's in danger of getting fired because of Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's zero growth, or the unemployed person who does not get a longer benefit period in view of the deterioration, is entitled to a clear answer from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says if this is something you want to hold on to by all means.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134531	Oh, and I'll give you a clear answer. Does the Danish People's Party impose ultimate demands in pointing to a change of government after the upcoming elections? No, we don't. We want a change of government because it brings us, it is our assessment, closer to direct political influence. Does this mean that we have abandoned our political demands? No, it doesn't mean anything any more than I assume that the SF has given up its political demands because it doesn't say to the current Prime Minister: we want elections today, we're pulling the curtain under the current government, if we don't get a halving of the recovery requirement on the daily allowance, or if we don't get it through here in the area of the elderly or this hospital area. As little as SF really does, as little as the Danish People's Party will do it after an election. The fact that we want a change of government does not mean that the SF or the Danish People's Party have abandoned our political demands. This means that we then fight for our demands in everyday life with the strength that the voters have given us. And that is exactly how the voters know that the Danish People's Party stands, and it is against this background that the voters assess with what power they will then support the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134638	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134640	I think it makes very good sense what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says. But when you say: we are not going to contribute to a policy where there is zero growth in a long period of time and it was a quote from the Stock Exchange in August that I read out then it must be understood reasonably ultimate, namely that you will not support, not secure majority for a government that will lead to zero growth. That's the only reason I'm asking about it. Compared to how much you want to use your influence, we have seen that DF is first the fads of loss of benefit. Then things develop, and we're really happy from SF that DF will help to fix these things. And we trust you to do so. But then you will also have to give some guarantees that it is not a free round, that it is not empty talk, that it is something that also applies after a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134734	But it starts and ends in the same place, in other words in relation to whether the SF really believes that because you do not have the ultimate demands and then the fact that the current Prime Minister is the President of the Social Democratic Party has given up your policy. I do not assume that the SF has, just as we in the Danish People's Party are abandoning our policy if, after the elections, it turns out that there is a majority for a change of government. The fact that there are areas where the current government disagrees with the SF or where we may disagree with a government after an election is obvious. Does this mean that we have given up the opportunities to get our policy through? No, it doesn't. It's this Parliament, a majority of this Parliament, that rules this country. At least that is what we are in favour of. In the area of children's checks, too, Madam Prime Minister, we want Parliament to lay down legislation here when it is also put into practice and that it is not the European Commission that dictates our policy. So the majority of the Folketing actually has the opportunity to decide things here in this kingdom. I think that's how it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134830	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134832	Thank you. I heard this morning on the radio that the Danish People's Party will send asylum seekers down to Kenya in competition with the Liberal Alliance. It was to be done quickly when they came to the country. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is well aware that Kenyan President Kenyatta stands for a judge down in The Hague at the moment for human rights violations. Is it really the view of the Danish People's Party on refugees that they are going down to a country like Kenya in a camp because we do not want them here in the small rich colony called Denmark? I would also like to know if the Danish People's Party will cut by 2.5 billion. kr. In Danish development aid, a policy which, in the worst case, can increase the number of refugees in the world and which can increase the flow of refugees. How is this to be achieved if we are to avoid an increase in the flow of refugees? I have not received an answer, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's prime minister candidate... it was some airy talk about nothing. Could be, sir. Thulesen Dahl could help me with an answer to: Where should the money come from and how should you cut Danish development aid by 2.6 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009134943	First of all, I think we should start from the fact that we have the largest number of refugees since the Second World War. Over 50 million refugees are registered. According to Danish Refugee Aid, 80% of the population is in the region. the refugees and the internally displaced persons in their neighbourhood; the others have then moved on to different areas and have largely sought asylum. But if we take it as our starting point that 80%. is in their neighbourhood, where we have refugee camps with 130,000 people in some places, then I guess it's about if you really want to help these people in need, how we help them best. And you can help the large number of refugees in the best way possible by massively deploying and helping in these neighbourhoods. And that is why, instead of having a situation where we might expect 20,000 people to travel to Denmark this year, among those who can afford to pay people smugglers, and it's funny that it's them that Enhedslisten cares a lot about, that is, those who can afford to pay a human smuggler in order to travel quite far away from the vicinity and then to Denmark instead of spending incredibly large resources on it, it was better that we redesigned the Danish asylum policy and helped where we help the most. That is why I have today called on the Prime Minister to convene the parties of the Danish Parliament in this very extraordinary situation in which the Prime Minister and we jointly believe we are, in order to see whether a national compromise can be reached on the restructuring of Danish asylum policy in order to help as much as possible to the people in need who are around the world's disaster areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135113	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135114	But to want to send asylum seekers, for example. However, from Iraq and Syria to Kenya, down to a place where human rights are certainly not respected, is a grotesque proposal in my view. And then, sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that we should look after refugees in the neighbourhood, he did not answer my second question: how on earth should this be linked to saving 2.6 billion? kr. • ECU 2.6 billion for development aid; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and to thank him for the excellent work he has done on this subject. How on earth has the Danish People's Party imagined that we should help in the vicinity and then cut 2.6 billion. kr. of the money that just needs to be spent on it, gone?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135222-2	If the questioner wants to base his own estimates on the government, then the government estimates that we are going from 7,500 asylum seekers this year to an expense of about 1.4 billion. kr. for an estimated 20 000 asylum seekers this year at an estimated cost of 4.1 billion. kr. So it is just to say that if you let go, then you can see that the costs are increasing dramatically. I mean, if you leave it alone. The government does not believe that the government does this because the government then takes some initiatives to tighten for less than a third of the Syrians who come to Denmark, compared to 1 year's temporary nature. Then, of course, you can discuss how you think the situation is in one year's time, so it's a limited intervention by the government. I think it's too little. That's why we're putting up with something bigger. We are proposing a definite change in the way in which we help the world's most afflicted. Then the question is whether you are willing to accept that hand and are willing to negotiate it in real terms or whether you turn your hand away. I hope that the first thing is done, because if we are in a situation that we are doing, with over 50 million refugees in the world, then it is not about a discussion that we have here, that it is very, very important that we accept 20,000 this year. After all, if we could help 100,000 or 200,000 by remedying the problems locally, that would be far more important. And if in the last part of the question there is that one agrees with that, then I am only happy, because then it can put some pressure on the government for us to change the Danish asylum policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135354	We can just get to Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135357	Now it would be tempting to raise the issue of asylum policy, but that is not my question. It's more about budgeting. When it comes to budgeting, in order to get the money going, priority must be given to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. This old-age leaflet, which has already been referred to today, also says that all public transport for folk pensioners must be free of charge. Now my question is short and good because, according to the Ministry of Finance, it costs 1 billion. kr.: Will the Danish People's Party, which has just set aside that amount for the elderly in its draft budget, use its older billion precisely to honour the promise of free transport to the elderly, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135442	The billion for which we have allocated funding for next year, which we call a genuine elderly billion, is a priority for the municipalities for better time for the elderly carers. The billion is not intended as an investment in making it cheaper in traffic, it is intended for another purpose, namely to compensate for the fact that this year too the elderly have been cut in conflict with what the government otherwise gave the impression of when the financial settlement for this year was made and more money allocated to the elderly area. We can look at the figures we have at least been informed for the time being about • we will then know later whether this is the case, but that is at least what we have been told for the time being that the municipalities are planning to cut the elderly for 1.3 billion. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. That is why it is our view that additional funds are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135539	Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135540	I can then, of course, on the basis of the answer given by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl states that Dansk Folkeparti will not introduce free transport to all folk pensioners, which Dansk Folkeparti promises here in his elder folds. So, what do the older ones have to count on? If it's just empty promises, I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, birds on the roof? Older people also need budgeting, older people also need to be able to set up perhaps a very slender and vulnerable economy, but the Danish People's Party apparently doesn't want to do that, since it wants to prioritise differently. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl reply briefly: Is that what the elderly can look forward to?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135623	Paragraph 1, then, I hope that what we are hearing here is an expression of the fact that the Social Democratic Party is actually prepared to comply with the Danish People's Party's request for an extra billion for the elderly next year, otherwise this discussion will not make sense. Now, together, we are fulfilling the wish of the elderly that more funds should be made available. At least I hope we can agree on that. Paragraph 2 is that when we do something good for the elderly, does this mean that we have exhausted the list for what we want in the area of the elderly? No. It is the case that, and this is where I think the Socialists are funny some people think that parties should be judged equally, but not exactly in this area. I noted with some surprise that a proposal for a work programme on youth policy or child policy had been submitted to Congress, where Mr. Mogens Jensen, who was the banner leader of that proposal, was asked by a journalist where he wanted to raise money for it. And then Mr. Mogens Jensen is true, and now I quote: this is a longer-term work programme, and it should not be implemented within a financial year, but it is quite clear that when we put forward concrete proposals on the basis of the programme, we will of course give funding. Quote out. See, it was almost quoted verbatim, I think, from my previous answers to the Social Democratic Party, which was then challenged with the words that such a policy could not be created at all. Apparently, social democracy can. It is strange that two parties should be assessed differently in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135741	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Hersom, when all the papers are down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009135804	The day we hold Parliament's opening debate is a great day for our democracy. It is also a great day for my youngest daughter, Leonora, because she is 5 years old today. And if anyone is in doubt, I should say hello and say that it can hardly be greater than turning five years. Leonora's highest wish is a pair of roller skates. When she gets older, I'm sure other desires, hopes and dreams will fill more. I want for the Denmark in which she and her sisters are to grow up: a secure Denmark where we stand together and where the strongest take an extra turn, so we have better opportunity to help our weakest; an open Denmark that engages in the world, where we welcome the people who knock on our door of need, where we help as much as possible, where we take the necessary steps to integrate them, and where we give the people certainty when they can get their family up here; and a green Denmark where we have plenty of clean water, clean air and green energy. After 10 years of consumption party with VKO, Denmark had a new government three years ago. Our promise to the Danes was simple: a Denmark that stands together. I am proud of the results we have achieved in such a short time. Unemployment is falling, employment is rising and growth is returning. Since the beginning of 2013, we have secured 36,000 unemployed Danes a new job, more long-term unemployed people have entered work, fewer young people are on cash benefits, and up to one in three unemployed people with exhausted unemployment benefit have entered employment. This has been possible because we have a firm grip on the economy. Through reforms we have taken responsibility from day one and we will do everything we can to ensure that Denmark does not get a new recommendation. That is why we have reached an understanding with the SF and the Enhedslisten about a pension package that reduces the deficit on public finances. Our responsible economic line is not born of a preference for spreadsheets and models. It is based on the firm conviction that if the economy is not in control, it is always the weakest who pay the highest price. We have reversed that trend. It is brightening in Denmark. With our reforms, we have cleaned up and created spaces to invest in jobs and core welfare. This had not happened to the blue block in power. Here the economic policy ranges from Kristian Thulesen Dahl's gift book to Anders Samuelsen's potato diet. Maybe plus growth and minus growth combined give zero growth, but it's probably not the zero growth that V and K dream of. We don't think it's time for this kind of experiment. The Social Democrats and Radicals have together cleaned up after the VKO's spending party in the 00's, and all experience shows that a healthy economy, a stronger community and a better society are only ultimately best created by the Social Democrats and Radicals. It is said that a society must be measured by the ability to care for its weakest. We promised the Danes a Denmark that is united. We delivered that. We have abolished VKO's poverty benefits. This means that today there are significantly fewer poor people than under the VKO, fewer who have to get through life, fewer who cannot afford to give birthdays for their children. I am particularly pleased with the reduction in the number of poor children, because we do not believe that any child should grow up in poverty in Denmark. That is our very clear position. The VKO will restore poverty benefits. We know that it will lead to 2,500 more poor children in Denmark again if they are given power as they have watched. Our approach is different. Blue Block is capable of delivery in several suggestions that harm our most vulnerable children and young people. The VKO will lower the age of criminals to 12 years and a very strange proposal, as juvenile delinquency falls for the seventh consecutive year and the number of charges against the 10-17-year-olds has almost halved since 2006. It doesn't make sense. We invest massively in giving our children opportunities in life, not only formally, but in reality. Unfortunately, over the past many years we have not improved at breaking the negative social heritage. It is still the case that the school pupils' diploma reflects too much the parents' background. That's why we want to invest in creating the best educated generation ever. For the Denmark we want is a Denmark where everyone has opportunities. It is also a greener Denmark. With the world's most ambitious climate and energy policy, we are at the forefront of the development that all countries have to make through the transition to a fossil-free society. Before my Leonora becomes a teenager, half of our power comes from wind turbines. When she becomes of age, all coal will be phased out and, hopefully, while she is finishing her education, all power and heat will come from renewable sources. It's quite a green revolution on top of the black years of VKO. We dare to take action with those sectors that continue to emit too much CO2 This applies, among other things, to: transport. 80% of our traffic investment has gone to public transport, and by 2030 we will invest 110 billion in total. kr. in new and better railways. This means that in the future everyone can travel from Aalborg to Copenhagen in 3 hours. This is good not only for the environment but also for cohesion, for growth and for employment in our small country. Because there is no contradiction between green conversion and growth on the contrary. The green conversion is a good business for Denmark. We inspire the rest of the world to step out of the coal age and into the future. When global green organisations are to give their bid for the green society of the future, where growth and green development can go hand in hand, yes, then their answer is: Just ash Denmark. It makes me immensely proud. Much has happened in 3 years ■ in many areas much more than VKO reached in 10 years. We have managed the economy, we have lifted Denmark from scratch, and we have brought Denmark back in front of the global green transition. And we're just getting started. We will continue the reforms against the true leader of the opposition, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who wants a halt to reform. The two directions indicate a clear difference between a Denmark in growth and development and a Denmark in standstill and decay. I know which country I prefer my daughters to grow up in. We had to start at a time when growth did not exist and when jobs were disappearing. Our reforms have been right. They would have been easier to implement before the economic crisis, but VKO lacked the will and they lacked courage. Too little happened, and it happened too late. We take responsibility. We let the reforms continue, and it is not because we love what they do to us in the polls, but because financial responsibility is the foundation of the Denmark we dream of. When we can invest 20 billion. kr. In core welfare over the next five years, it is very well similar to the room for manoeuvre provided by the pre-retirement and benefit reforms. So reform makes a difference. Continuing reforms allow us to prioritise and invest in education, health and psychiatry. Continuing reforms allow us to create growth and jobs • the jobs that will make even more of our working community and give them that platform in life. Continuing reforms allow us to help them with special needs. We know that about 8,000 children of cash aid recipients, drug addicts and severely chronically ill do not get the same privileged start as my daughters. We dare say it as it is. Future prosperity and prosperity require that we, who can, do a little more and expect a little less. I am sure that today's children will look back at an SR government that made a difference to a government that brought back financial responsibility and that got Denmark safely through the crisis with the community. That's what I'm dreaming of. That's what I'm fighting for. That's what I want for my little daughter on her 5th birthday. Because we continue to believe in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009140855	Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009140859	I think we can share the wish that all children should both wish for and have roller skates and have good birthdays. That is why it is also important for the SF to understand quite clearly where the Radicals are in relation to a benefit reform which, of course, determines what financial basis you have as an adult when you have children who, among other things, have children. It's a birthday party. Far more than expected have now gone out of the benefit system, in fact ten times as many as were expected. The Radical Left supported the benefit reform and now the Social Democrats say, fortunately, and we support this, that changes are wanted after elections. So I ask: will the Radicals help to change recovery or ensure a longer coverage if the government regains power?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141001	We basically believe that the unemployment benefit reform is right. That is why we voted in favour. But what we also said at the time when we did not have direct influence, it has to be said that we were in the opposition, that we thought the phase-in was too fast and that it hit too hard in the middle of a crisis. We've done a lot of things to mitigate that. However, our starting point is that we think the reform is right. We do not think that you should be on unemployment benefit for more than two years. We think you should get a job. That is why we have set out to create the jobs that enable people to give their children opportunities, not only the roller skates that my daughter was fortunate enough to get today, but also all the other things that come with being part of a working community. The fact that Dad and Mom get up in the morning and go to work, rather than that Dad and Mom don't get up in the morning, but are at home on a passive transfer, makes a world a difference. I also assume that SF agrees with me on this, i.e. whether you are on passive support or if you have a job. Therefore, what we are working for first of all is to give people the opportunity; to create the openings into the labour market that give people opportunities in life; rather than being completely blindly focused on keeping them on a transfer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141127	Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141128	Now I'm just practicing the exercise called looking out the window. In fact, there are people out there who really want these jobs to be mentioned. I don't know anyone who wouldn't much like a job if that were possible. I think it is a false contradiction that is being put up here. We can have that discussion at another time. But I'm gonna ask you again and follow-up. Radicals think this reform is good. Fortunately, we have helped to soften it up along the way. The Prime Minister has also announced and said that the Social Democrats in any case support the SF strongly in changing it after an election. I simply need to know whether the Radicals will then support a social democratic government after an election if it can also mean that I hope that you can change the recovery requirement for cash benefits or that you can extend a coverage period.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141227	We support Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister also after an election. We think she's doing great. We have set up a Disability Commission to look at the benefit system as a whole. We do that because we also have a belief that we can do even better. It is actually very important for us that we have a benefit system that is attractive to people. Surely we have an interest in people insuring themselves against unemployment. We have an interest in a system that matches the needs of the labour market and can respond to the wishes of those who need to be assured. Of course we do. That is why we have set up a commission so that it can provide a well-analysed response to what the future benefit system should look like. But I do not wish to go into what the Radical Left would recommend in advance on the basis of the analysis that is coming. We've advanced the timing of the commission's delivery. We look forward to it, and we are always ready to make the reforms that can make Denmark a better place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141328	Mrs Inger Løbberg for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141330	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur has spent a great deal of time describing what Denmark will look like in the field of energy, the environment and much more when the rapporteur's daughter Leonora grows up. But there was one area in which the rapporteur did not tell us what Denmark would look like if the Radical Left were given power, as they have been watching, and that was in the field of foreigners. I would like to ask specifically about family reunification, because yesterday I understood from the Minister for Justice that the small tightening-up that is taking place in the area of family reunification is permanent, whereas I could read in the newspaper that Mrs Camilla Hersom says it is not permanent, but that it is merely a temporary tightening-up. Can we find out who's right? Is it one part of the government, or is it the other part?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141422	Now the government is one government, regardless of the fact that there are two parties in it. What lies in the temporary nature of the special arrangement that we are making now is that it is very clear that the law will have to be revised in three years' time. The law will have to be revised in three years, and it can then have a number of outcomes and a minimum of three: you can abolish the law, you can change the law, or you can let it continue as it is. It will be a majority in the Folketing that will decide it at that time. But it is written in the legislative catalogue that the law must be revised, and Mrs Inger Løjberg can make sure of that if she breaks up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141504	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141507	I am well aware that a government must act together, and that is also why I am surprised that there are two positions with only two parties in the government. That's why I'm just trying to figure out if it's the Minister of Justice we can count on or if it's the Radical Left we can count on. It does not really matter to us whether it is temporary or permanent. However, there is a certain difference or there is actually a hundred percent difference between the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141536	No, because when there is an audit clause in the law, it has to be considered again, and then it will be the Folketing and the way in which the Folketing is composed.I hope the Radical Left will be massively represented in the Parliament which decides how it should be handled. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141604	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141607	That's the way it is, a well-known radical quote. I am in a mood today, where I would also like to welcome the changes that are taking place in a positive direction. I should like to begin by saying this to the radical rapporteur, because the Radical Left said no more than three months ago, and I quote: Denmark is where we are going. We are pursuing a proper foreign policy and we are taking global responsibility. This is quite reasonable in relation to the resources we have in Denmark. Quote out. I mean, Denmark is where we're going. And that was three months ago. After all, the Radical Left is behind a proposal to tighten things up and has thus clearly moved in relation to the position that was held a short time ago. And basically, I think that's good. What I would then like to ask Mrs Camilla Hersom is whether the recognition which has then spread within the government in relation to the necessary restrictions in the field of aliens also includes a consensus that what we see in asylum seekers is asylum shopping, so whether the concept of asylum shopping is a concept that is also recognised in the Radical Left. After all, the Minister of Justice has said, and now I quote again: I do not know what goes through people's heads when they flee a country in civil war, but, of course, one is probably oriented towards what the conditions are in the countries one gets to. Quote out. I also understand that this morning a press release has been issued using the concept of asylum shopping. So I just want to be sure to get an answer: has the recognition reached so far that the Radical Left also recognises that asylum seekers are committing asylum shopping in relation to where the conditions for them are best?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141735	I still think we're standing where we should stand. That, among other things. has happened over the last three months, is that we have seen a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers not only in Denmark, not only in Europe, but everywhere in the circles around the centre, which is Syria. This is a completely terrible unfortunate situation for those people, and I do not know, by its very nature, what goes through the heads of those people either. What we are doing with what is being put forward and which is in the legislative catalogue is that we are making a law that must respond to the very special situation we are in. We stand by that completely. I do not think we can be accused in any way of changing our position. This is an extraordinary situation which calls for special solutions and in which we have, of course, looked very carefully at what we did in the past when we were in something comparable to it, namely when we had the war in the Balkans and there were very, very many refugees from Bosnia.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141842	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141844	You're still standing where you're supposed to be, I understand. But it is at least another place than three months ago, and it is also a place other than the position of the government two and a half weeks ago, because then the family reunification rules should not be included. It replied in writing to the media that the family reunification rules should not be subject to change. That's what they were supposed to do on Tuesday. So you move, and I think that is a good thing, because I think it is necessary. However, what I asked Mrs Camilla here as to my question, which she did not quite deal with, but which she now has the chance to answer again, is, of course, about the concept of asylum shopping which the Minister of Justice uses. Does the Radical Left agree that it is a concept that can be applied to asylum seekers who are looking around European countries? Asylum shopping is all about finding out where the rules are most favorable for you, and then you go there. And just this morning, in a press release, the Minister for Justice again uses the concept of asylum shopping. I ask Mrs Camilla Hersom: is this a concept that the Radical Left recognises as a concept for what is actually happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009141950	Well, I can hear that this is a concept that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has now used at least 17 times in the last two questions he has put to me, so in that sense it is a concept that exists in the debate. But I think it is to simplify the completely hopeless situation in which many people imagine that they are able to shop. Of course, as a fugitive you will go where there are better conditions, it gives itself. I also think that Denmark is a really, really attractive country for many people, because we have an incredibly lovely country that we all appreciate. But I think it is simplified to imagine that this is what is in the concept of shopping, and that is why it is not a concept we use.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142040	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142045	Basically, you have the right to live with your family. Imagine if it was we who came to another country because we had been on the run and then were denied the right to be with our spouse and child. We cannot accept that. That's what Mr. Morten Østergaard in 2007. In fact, I hardly know what to ask, because I am not surprised that the Socialists can compete with the right-wing party on who can treat the world's refugees most harshly, but I am sincerely sorry that the Radicals are now throwing themselves into that fight. As the Prime Minister said in his speech the day before yesterday, there are historically many people who are forced to flee. I can't believe your answer that your reaction is to deprive refugees of their right to have their children safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142158	We do not deprive people of the right to family reunification, they will be assured of when it will happen on a backdrop where we have historically many people on the run. That is why I should like to say to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. That is what makes it necessary for us to find solutions. We have to in the completely extraordinary situation in which Denmark, like the rest of Europe, and as Syria's immediate regions in particular, is in quite chaotic conditions. Even with us, however, there is such a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers that our municipalities cannot keep up. We believe that responsibility must be taken. That is why we are putting forward a legislative proposal for those people who are not individually persecuted but who are here because the conditions in Syria are as they are. That bill reminds us in many ways of what we did when we got thousands of refugees from Bosnia. This was a special law, which was also temporary; it was even shorter than what we are proposing now. At that time we could not be brought together in the family, as was the case with the Radical Left in government. We think we take responsibility here. We welcome all the people who are coming, we grant the majority of them asylum, we provide for a better integration process, we provide for health screening and we give them a certainty as to when their family can come.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142338	Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142339	Let us hope that those children will not be harmed in the year in which they have to wait for them to be safe with their father or mother. We hope so. I do not think it is the Radicals who have come up with this, I think it is the Socialists. How can it be that the Radicals are unwavering when it comes to changing the payment of cash benefits? There you stand, there you don't want to rock a millimeter, but when it comes to refugee policy, you are obviously willing to sell out? It's okay to drop a basic principle when it comes to refugees, and when it comes to children, that they have the right to be with their parents. Is this where the Radicals are today, that is, the refugee policy is ready to sell out, if only one can be absolutely sure that one gets top tax relief, one gets corporation tax relief, and one can hold onto a benefit reform that has had a really great impact on a lot of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142457	This is the Radical Left today, just as it was the Radical Left when we had many, many thousands refugees from Bosnia. One can of course do oneself the favour of consulting what we did then. There we were also in an extraordinary situation that we also gave people a temporary stay, even though they were not personally persecuted. We were on the goal of this when we took responsibility, and we are doing so here too. Has it been easy? Of course it hasn't. That is something we are considering very carefully, it is something we have discussed very carefully. But we wouldn't back it if we couldn't be in it. I think we can be familiar with saying to the people who come and knock on our door: be welcome, you can come in, we grant you asylum, also on a basis where you are not individually persecuted. We will do everything we can to ensure that you are properly integrated, because we too can learn from the past, and then we will give you a certainty that when it is confirmed that you will be here for more than one year, then the family will come. It's a certainty we give people. I think that means a lot to those people, i.e. they will also have a certainty about when it will happen. I do not think that the overall processing time will be longer in Denmark than it is in countries with which we usually compare ourselves. So we can be there, we're going into this open, we're going to stand by it. I wish it were not necessary; I wish we did not have a situation in the world that made this necessary. But when it is necessary, you have to take responsibility for how to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142635	Mrs. Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142640	Thank you. The Radical Left was once a party that was very preoccupied with civil society and the free life of association. But the Radical Left is also a party which has so much entered into a reform of primary school which takes a very large part of the free association life. It has been well described in the press in recent weeks, including in Berlingske on 13 September, that a number of sports associations are experiencing a fall in membership, and a study shows that 20%. Families find that children are watching out for leisure activities. At the same time, the Minister of Education says that it is just as good to move to school when a teacher or a teacher takes the children to the school yard, as it is that one chooses to participate in voluntary association life. Does the rapporteur agree with the Minister for Education that it is as good to play with a teacher down in the schoolyard as going to a leisure activity that you have chosen and are passionate about, and where you are with other children and adults who are interested in that particular leisure activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142748	I still believe that there are all kinds of opportunities to volunteer for leisure activities. However, what the new reform of primary schools is meant to do is that all children are not just those who can make a free choice about a leisure activity that parents then pay for the opportunity to play sports, learn to play an instrument and get acquainted with some of the things that happen in our voluntary association life. And it is planned that you can work very closely with the community life in the municipalities to integrate it into the period during which the school has the children in its care. I think that's gonna be really good. This is our first year. We have only reached the month of October and, of course, it takes time to adjust to it and make it work. But I actually hear from society that it is widely felt that this is also an opportunity to reach some children you have not been able to reach in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142858	Merete Riisager.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009142859	Thank you. That was a very clear answer to my question. However, it is of course worrying to hear how a rapporteur for the Radical Left sounds completely like a socialist or perhaps even a socialist. It is therefore better to expand school time so that you make sure that the children do something specific than that they actually have the freedom to do exactly what they are concerned with, and that there are some voluntary adults who actually sit down on their own initiative and start an association and that some children show up for it. It is therefore better for the state to take care of what the children are doing than for you to have the freedom to choose for yourself. At least we got a clear answer to that. But I'd like to know why you're so comfortable with it... and you don't want to see what it's gonna look like in society. How many active are there, and what about diversity? After all, in two or five years' time we will be able to measure what has happened with society and reform. Will the rapporteur not ensure that such a temperature measurement is carried out so that we can see what is going on with society in two years' time and in five years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143006	I am absolutely open to the fact that we must follow it closely. Of course we must. However, it is perhaps a little early to evaluate at this stage, in October, after the reform came into force on 1 September. The idea is, of course, to give all children an opportunity to try some things off during school hours. It will not be dictatorial to play football or to play the violin. There will, of course, be different offers for the individual schools, at least if they are organised in the way the reform proposes. After all, it is up to the municipalities themselves, the schools themselves, to fill that framework. And then you will still have plenty of opportunity to cultivate all kinds of interests when you are not in school. But if the rapporteur is a bit teasingly suggesting that it is not a value for the Radical Left that all children are given a chance, then she is wrong. It's a value to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143106	Mrs Lene Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143112	I would like to start by congratulating Leonora and the five years. I can guarantee that when Leonora turns six, it will be an even bigger birthday. It's the same with kids all the time. I would say to the radical rapporteur that we fully share the analysis of the Radical Left, namely that one of the best things we can do to break the negative social heritage is to get people into work. There is a direct connection between that, that is, in those homes where both mother and father are on public support, many of the children also end up on public support. So if all children are to have a chance, it is very important that they see their mother and father as role models in jobs. I will then hear Mrs Camilla here as thundering against the ceiling and start-up aid, and I would just like to ask Mrs Camilla Hersom quietly whether Mrs Camilla Her, who does not even recognise the positive effect on employment, among other things. The startup aid had during the '00s.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143213	What is important to us is to create the opportunities in the labour market that enable as many people as possible to get a job. Because I fully recognise what is in the proposal. However, we do not want to put our transfer income, including, in particular, cash aid, at a level where we are pooring families with children. We simply do not think this is the right way forward. You can use different tools to get people into work, you can use different tools to create the openings and to qualify people to take the work there is. We believe that this is first and foremost the way forward. It is so for us that when we look at the bottom of the transfer income there is simply a level that we do not think we should go down because it is going to hurt the children in those families in an incredibly inappropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143317	Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143319	I did not quite hear Mrs Camilla Hersom reply to my question, but I do know that the Radicals are listening to experts, and I would say that the Rockwool Foundation has carried out a study exactly in this area which shows that it got more people in employment, that it was chosen to say that it should pay to work. Specifically, this meant that 42 per cent. Of the refugees who came to this country after the start-up aid was introduced, the figure was 30 per cent. In the same period, then, we have unfortunately seen that the proportion of non-western immigrants in employment has fallen under the current government. So my question to Mrs Camilla Hersom is: is it not to do both children and their families a disservice to keep them in a system where it is not worthwhile to work, rather than to make such strong financial incentives that it actually gets people into jobs? I think Mrs Camilla Hersom and I agree that the unemployment benefit reform was a very good idea. But we must also recognize if we look at the measurements that are that a very large proportion, even of the people who are on cash benefits, simply say no to taking a job because it does not pay for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143436	Just as, according to the figures and the reports to which Mrs Lene Espersen refers, more people entered work, it is just as true that 2,500 children were poored by it, and that is a price that we are not prepared to pay. It is a political choice that we make that we say that our services must not come to a level where families with children are left in poverty. We do so with open eyes, and then we must use some of the other tools that exist to get that group to work. They're going to work, too. Everyone who can at all must do so for a lot of wonderful reasons, which we have also spoken about today. But we will not pay the price of leaving families with children in poverty. There we have to use some other grip, and that is why we are proud that we have abolished poverty benefits and that we think it is crazy that they will be reinstated. And it will not be with the votes of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143543	Sir. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143548	Like Mrs Lene Espersen, I would also like to congratulate her on her daughter's birthday and to regret that we are taking so much of Leonora's mother's time here today to discuss these things. It is commendable, and I appreciate it, and I will also sign the speech that was made in this context. Not because I agreed with all parts of it, but because there were actually some bids for • seen with radical glasses • how we should move forward. This was a rather different approach from what we heard from the Socialist rapporteur, where the focus was almost exclusively on cutting others down and nothing about own policy. So I'd like to sign for that. So on the question that we were also talking about in relation to the Socialist rapporteur: how do the Radicals view the challenge of seeing now that there will be a doubling of the number of asylum seekers in the future? Do you view radicals as a challenge? And what cost do you see radicals will have for Danish society? And, by the way, what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143644	It's a challenge. That is also why we are going to put forward a legislative proposal laying down clear rules around the group which comes on a different basis from those who are individually persecuted. It is a challenge for our municipalities, which must accept the people who must have a proper place to live, who must be integrated, who must learn something Danish, and hopefully they must take those of those who will stay here to become a resource for Denmark. That is why we must also make an effort in what we are doing so that we can use the resources that these people have rather than leave them in a situation where things go from evil to worse. After all, we suspect that the figures will increase in the future too, but we do not know exactly how many are coming. The fact is that we have an obligation to accept those who knock on our door. So it's hard to be very precise about what we're talking about here, because none of us know that by nature. We can only prepare ourselves for what we think will be the scenario.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143802	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143804	That's pretty much true. We do not know exactly, of course, it is an assessment of the future and, as you know, it is difficult to predict and at least to hit precisely. Nevertheless, the government itself made a recent assessment of the fact that the asylum seekers are expected to double next year. What does the rapporteur think is the reason for this? Well, one thing, of course, and that's probably a major reason why the world around us is on fire in many places, but doesn't it also have something to do with the policy being conducted in Denmark? And what financial cost does the rapporteur consider to be the doubling of asylum seekers in Denmark? And finally, how is it intended to be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143844	I think it is the war in Syria that is the reason why so many Syrian refugees are coming. And the fact is that if you compare the number that comes to Europe with the number that is in the outlying regions, it is quite, quite a few percent that comes across Europe's borders. That does not mean that it is not a challenge; it is still gone, because we must accept those people properly. But with the fact that we do not know exactly where the number lands and, by the way, what it is for people we are talking about, it is very, very difficult to say anything concrete about what we are going to spend on it. What I can assure the rapporteur is that we will address the situation as well as addressing the other challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143935	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009143940	Thank you. I have heard a little differently from the rapporteur. There was something in the debate about foreigners, which has been quite extensive, that the Radicals can understand that they are coming to this lovely country, as expressed by Camilla Hersom. And at the beginning of the rapporteur's speech we could also hear that the Radical Left, together with the other governing parties, had almost taken over a country in decline. I think it is absolutely absurd to make such statements. Then I would like to leave this children's discussion, which Mrs Camilla Her who set out to tell you about some birthday and roller skates and all these kids running on roller skates and milling out there. I will move on to the other part of the population, the older part, and I think that should be a proper discussion. Recently, we have talked a lot about vacuum-packed food for older citizens. After all, the Radical Left has the post of Minister for Social Affairs, where there is a minister knocking out his arms and saying that it is not worthy. And not much else is happening. I really think it has been a test for the elderly under the Radicals, with a forced digitalisation which is about to take place, robot vacuum cleaners and now vacuum packed food. I do not think this is a good thing, and then I do not think it should be blamed on the municipalities alone. I think it is so much the same as falling back on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144104	I also think that vacuum-packed food for the elderly is unworthy. I also think it will prove to be counterproductive, because I cannot imagine anyone wanting to eat vacuum-packed sandwiches that have been lying for up to 9 days in the fridge before having it served. That is why I believe that it will cost you well-being and that it will cost you health. But now it is not all in our kingdom that is the responsibility of the Folketing. This is clearly a municipal responsibility. And the municipalities that have introduced the vacuum-packed food are led by the Left. I'm just saying that in all silence. In one of the municipalities there is even a member of DF who sits in the municipal council and says that she has no problem with that at all. There we have to say that if we were to take on the detail of regulating everything that is going on in the country's hundred municipalities, I do not think that the legislation would be any better. We added a very large sum of money to the area of the elderly last year. We have done so with the intention of improving the situation. It is a municipal responsibility how to choose to prioritise that money, and I do not agree with that priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144223	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144226	Thank you. Yes, but I don't think it's to regulate down in detail when it comes to older fellow citizens. I really don't think it is. I think it is a shift of responsibility beyond all borders that the government is demonstrating. I just wanted to ask about the older billion: where on earth has it gone? Why can we not go in and say to the municipalities: this is simply not acceptable. The elderly must have the money that the Folketing is channeling out, of course. That is also why the Danish People's Party has dropped a genuine elderly billion in our draft Finance Act because we simply cannot accept those conditions. I heard just this morning that at some of our existing hospitals there are really good experiences now. So not the new super hospitals, where you can't find out that there's also a kitchen, so the food must be made on a central basis, and that's not a good idea. For example: there is really good experience at Herlev Hospital because you care a lot about the food. The elderly will recover when they return to the municipality, not only will they get vacuum packed sandwiches. Also their regular dinner is vacuum packed. Then they get sick and get hospitalized and stay in very good condition again. It's not like that to save money. Why do we not think a little longer, and why do we not have a Minister for Social Affairs who takes this more seriously? The Minister belongs to the Radical Left, and I really think it is a task to be Minister of Social Affairs for the elderly in this country too. Does the rapporteur not agree with this and should it not be done so that there was more control over what the municipalities were using the money for?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144353	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144356	I clearly agree that one of the major tasks of the Minister for Social Affairs is to have an eye for the elderly. And what I have heard from our Minister for Social Affairs is that he takes a deep stand against the practice of a number of left-wing municipalities in this country and that he will take up KL, that is, the municipal organisation, in order to have a dialogue with them. But my party is also one of those who believe that we should give people responsibility and that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the citizens. I believe that it must be the responsibility of a municipal council to deal with the question of what food the elderly in the municipality should have, where it is manufactured, how it comes out to them and what standard to set. It must therefore be a task that the municipalities of the country can undertake. But I have heard that the Minister will just enter into dialogue with the KL to perhaps bring this up to a higher level.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144459	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144505	Thank you. I too would like to congratulate Leonora for the five years. I understand that Leonora had a wish, and the mother on behalf of Leonora had a series of other wishes, which I also share with the future of Denmark. For the sake of Leonora and all her peers, we are concerned that growth is not there, and so I would really like to ask Leonora's mother, the Radical Left rapporteur, whether it is not a concern she shares with us. And if it is, shouldn't we do something about it? We were at the meeting of Finance Ministers yesterday and expressed a little surprise that the government is apparently so obsessed with the idea of finally showing that you can do something with Enhedslisten that you will not make a financial agreement with us. However, we have bowed to this, and then we have pointed out that perhaps there were three places where there could be partial agreements: a cancer plan, something in the area of foreigners, which is pushing our economy and then, in relation to Leonora's birthday, a growth plan 3, which can ensure that we get growth again, that we get private employment and job creation, and thus the increase in prosperity, so that we can also afford to meet our children's birthday wishes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144617	We are deeply, deeply concerned about growth in Denmark, and we have, in this way, together with the Left, also made several growth plans for the same reason. This is something we are deeply concerned about and for which we are also actively working. But there are many, many considerations that need to be delivered on, and there must be a balance in it. There we think that the balance in which we also constantly invest in welfare helps to secure the Denmark we want. And I actually hear that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen must agree with it when he talks about a cancer plan. After all, we have put many millions of people on the government's side for increased and better treatment for cancer. It is really money that is being spent in the public sector, if that is to say, and it is an important consideration for us that we have the right balances. We see that growth is increasing • not as much as we would like, but it is increasing. And what is good, fortunately, is that employment, which is a hard figure in the sense that you can measure it; it is not just something that has been calculated in a model that continues to increase and that it will also help to boost growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144737	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144740	Is Growth Rising? I guess growth has fallen in relation to the expectations of the government when we made the last growth plan. That is actually why I am asking whether it would be interesting to draw up a growth plan 3. Or has the radical rapporteur come to the conclusion that we have now done what is needed? That's what you have to believe, because the Prime Minister didn't mention this in a word. Does the radical rapporteur agree that now we have done what needs to be done and then we just have to wait for growth to get off the ground, which creates prosperity that creates a prerequisite for welfare? Or should more be done? I would like to ask you this: on behalf of the Left, I should just like to make it clear that we do not think we are in the end. We want to fulfill the wishes of Leonora and her generation. In concrete terms, I would like to start with a few roller skates and then just offer a policy that ensures that when Leonora is 15 and 25 years old we also have a wealthy society. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144837	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144840	I think that's very sweet. Thank you. We're never done. We have only just started, and frankly I also think that it would be bad like this government if we did not continue to have growth initiatives on the wall in the future. We took the last joint initiative at the beginning of July this year, so it is also something to start the initiatives we have just taken. Then we have presented a financial bill which we are proud of, where we can also invest in the society in which I would like Leonora to grow up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144917	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009144921	I'd like to ask you a few questions about the cash benefits again. This may not come as a surprise to the rapporteur. When the VK government introduced the reform, it was estimated that 2,000-4,000 people would get out of the benefit system. Since then, we have seen that the figure is now 48.775 - there is a website, sf.dk/sf-day money now, where you can follow with • which has fallen out of the benefit system. After all, we have had this discussion before, and I know that the rapporteur will say that some have come to work. Yeah, they would have come anyway. The SFI report says that 1%. More people have come to work more quickly because of the reform than otherwise. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur and the Radical Left will support the Socialists after an election and following the recommendations made by the Commission for a new model, if that model, for example, is there? contains a shorter recovery period and a longer coverage period.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145034	After all, we will take a very thorough account of the analyses presented by the benefit commission, and we will do so because it is in our interest to have a robust, safe and attractive benefit system. But we also think it should be a reasonable benefit system and a benefit system that actually helps get people into work. That is why we were behind the reform. As I think I have already said once in this debate, we already said at the time that we thought the phasing-in was too violent and there the figures speak for themselves. I hope that we can find groundbeats with parties with which we normally cooperate when the Daily Money Commission makes their recommendations. And there I think it would be fantastic if, on the basis of a government proposal, we could find a common majority in the Folketing in order to create an even better benefit system than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145133	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145136	Now we are some parties DF, Enhedslisten and SF who have said: Can we not do something for the people who now fall out to zero income and no support? There is the temporary benefit, but it is temporary, and most recently the LO boss, Harald Børsting, has also made four proposals, one of which is to make the temporary benefit permanent until a solution is found to the unemployment benefit problem. Couldn't a way of doing this be if you also have to live up to the government basis called "A Denmark that is united" that it said: There are no people who have to be out of support and without income because of a reform that was built on a false premise and was introduced too quickly, as the rapporteur also says? Would it not be reasonable at a time of crisis to ensure that there is at least this temporary benefit for the people who fall out of the system, so that no one is without income?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145238	Well, everyone has access to the temporary service. If people choose not to take it and are not in a job and do not go on an education, then it is not because the benefit is not there. It will then be stepped down, but until this month those who have been on the temporary allowance will, overall, have had benefits for up to 4 years as it was in the old benefit system. We believe that what is the best cure is to give people a job, and that is also what we are working hard on. And then we are basically of the opinion that two years of unemployment benefit is long enough, because in our view it is quite handicapped to be longer on passive support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145326	Then we come to the last brief remark, which is from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145331	Thank you. I would like to return to this mass sprint, which has been in the past many years, mainly between the parties of the right, which always get a little frustrated when they overtake each other right-hand, a mass sprint that the Social Democrats have gradually participated in for a number of years, unfortunately, but which the Radicals have otherwise kept too good to participate in, and this is, of course, about being able to bother people with a different color of skin as much as possible, and in these days it seems concrete also to be able to behave most grotesquely towards people who have fled, who have fought their way away from atrocities, from Assad's regime, or who have fled from something as cruel as ISIL, whom we all agree, moreover, that we must fight. I would have thought that the Radicals would be too good for that, and I would have thought that the Radicals, who have been this backbone in the government, would resign, so I now have to ask directly: have you swapped benefit concessions for restrictions on foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145448	I mean, I just can't, erase, not at all, recognize the picture being drawn. To claim that the Radical Left should use its powers to fight people with a different color of skin, I think it is amazing to listen to. We are now making a law, in a very special situation, which gives people who come and who are not individually persecuted, but who flee the horrors of war, a stay in Denmark. This stay is on a temporary basis, because if the conditions in Syria are to be good again, they must of course return home and everything else would be very strange. We put turbo on integration, we do a health check, we give them a certainty about their family reunification. We can defend that, that is our response to how we deal with an extremely large number. But Mrs Pernille Skipper knows that we will not reject a single person who is entitled to asylum; anyone who comes to Denmark and who is entitled to asylum will be granted asylum in Denmark; nothing has changed at all about that. We are now simply writing into the law that those who come on a different basis from what has historically been the basis for obtaining refugee status and asylum come here under those conditions. This seems to us to be the best way to deal with the situation, the best way to provide clarity to the municipalities that are going to receive these people, and to those people themselves, in terms of what they have to expect and relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145628	Then there's a follow-up question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145632	What you do is say that you say to people who have been some of the most fortunate in getting away from something so terrible that they have to live in uncertainty about their future a little longer, as if there has not been enough uncertainty in their lives, and that their family, which in most cases are wives and children, should just wait a year and see if they can survive until they are allowed to come up here. No, I don't think that is fair, and I didn't think that was in the radical genes either, if you are to put it that way. But I would just like an answer to my question: have we been sitting in the negotiating rooms, in the government rooms and negotiating that the Radicals agreed to these restrictions on foreigners, in exchange for maintaining the austerity of the benefit issue and thus not extending a period of unemployment benefit or a period of return?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145737	Well, I think the question is absurd. In other words, if Mrs Pernille Skipper imagines that this is the way to negotiate in the government on issues, across all logic and reasoning, unemployment benefit/refugees, then she makes a bill without a host. We support the new law because we think we can defend it. It has not been easy for us to find out how we could make a package, if I may say so, a Syria package, for the people who are coming and who are staying in Denmark on a different basis than if they were individually persecuted. But we take responsibility for the situation we are in. I don't think Enhedslisten does. The Enhedslisten says that we must combat ISIL, as everyone agrees, but the Enhedslisten does not support the Danish effort in Iraq, which has precisely that purpose; the Enhedslisten does not. I have not heard what Enhedslisten's answer is about us getting very, very many more refugees to Denmark, and that the municipalities say that they do not know what to do. I really think it would suit Enhedslisten to give an answer to that. We may well be doing what we are now presenting, it is better than what was in the 1990s, but inspired by it, in other words, by the way we dealt with the many thousands of refugees who came from Bosnia in the 1990s, where the government also took part in the Radical Left. It was also temporary; it was shorter than what we are proposing now. At that time you could not have family reunification, but that is what we are going to do now, and you will have the certainty that it will happen after a year. We can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145921	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. It's time for SF. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009145943	Denmark is one of the richest, safest and happiest countries in the world. Imagine how amazing that is. A small pea of a country with 5 million people, really the size of a city like Hamburg and surroundings or a large Chinese provincial town, without the large natural resources and yet in the superliga of the world countries. We also assume international responsibility when wars rages and people are on the run. We must continue to do so. We have just become a strong society because we have taken a joint stand. We have created a strong society; a society that gives us all a place in the school bench; a society that signs with a secure old age when we have worked hard throughout a lifetime; a society that does not shut itself down; and a society where the wallet does not decide who can go in and out of the hospital entrance. Denmark has created great awareness throughout the world because of our success, not least we have been good at making problems a challenge; challenges to find solutions to; solutions to which you can even make money; solutions that are jobs in. In short, we are world champions in finding solutions to the major global challenges: global warming, food shortages, health, welfare, access to clean drinking water. Therefore, Denmark is also much more well known and recognised in the world than our size and economic importance justify. It is easy to operate in Denmark. We'll take care of each other. We have a strong democracy and, at the same time, we are globally at the bottom of crime and at the top of prosperity, prosperity and equality, a society in which businesses can make progress, and a society in which most people can grow up and live out their potential for the benefit of all. All this together makes Denmark the country of opportunity. Despite this success story, right now, the bourgeois parties are fighting an internal battle over who can quickly dismantle our welfare societies. They question the society we have built together for generations. They want a fight with equality and envy, to which they, without respect, reduce the hard struggle of generations for our society. Where do we see it? Yes, the massive deterioration in unemployment benefits in 2010 in the midst of an economic crisis is a place to start. This has so shaken the whole of our flexible model in the labour market and thus the very backbone of our society. And our welfare stands at a round shaving, and thousands of posts such as nurses, doctors, educators and social and health assistants will be closed down. And then an ambitious climate policy will be cancelled while agriculture stands to get the green light to spray and plow wherever they like, to the detriment of nature and watercourses and our health. Our community, the future of the planet, the belief in investment in the individual human being, all that the bourgeois will lose. Denmark is still marked by the crisis that was created, not by the tax burden, but by the deregulation of banks and the financial sector by liberalists. It therefore takes longer to get out of the crisis than expected, and this is due in particular to the fact that things are going very badly in a number of European countries. This, of course, also affects developments in Denmark. The automatic reaction from the bourgeois is quite simple, just as it is predictable and wrong • more tax cuts to business and lower wages. But does it work? Is that not the key question we should be asking ourselves as politicians? Did the tax relief work under the bourgeois government? Did they rust Denmark against the economic crisis? Did it help that Lomborg was replaced by just a little common sense when it came to the climate too late? And did poverty benefits lead to something other than, yes, more poor? No, it didn't work then, and it won't work today, and it won't do it in the future, no matter which advertising slogan the Left chooses to wrap it in. But what, in return, does it work? It does so when you stop spending in the east and west, stop climbing the money away on tax cuts and private hospitals, stop letting the financial sector gamble and agriculture pork. Instead, one must deliberately and purposefully invest in the community, our planet and the individual human being. The companies that choose to settle in Denmark do so precisely because the Danish companies have always put themselves on knowledge and new products, and they have highly skilled labour and a flexible labour market, because there is security in Denmark and there is low crime, and because our schools and hospitals work and because the labour market is modern. Denmark has not become a rich society by having the lowest tax, the worst welfare or the lowest wages • quite the contrary. That is why the bourgeois parties' internal cockfight on who can cut the most in welfare is a losing strategy. We need to build on the forces we have. We have just succeeded in reconciling economic prosperity, sustainable development and personal freedom and social security. And an important part of the Danish success is our flexible labour market. It creates security when we lose work. We have a social safety net, and companies can then convert easily. The crumple in it is the daily allowance system. It is our safety net when we lose work at times; a safety net that generations have developed and built; a safety net so that we, as people and society, do not stand still; and a safety net that allows us to constantly develop and seize new opportunities. It creates security and therefore enormous flexibility. Or maybe I should really talk in the past tense. It brought security. For the loss of unemployment benefit is, after all, a bomb under the security and flexibility of the labour market. More than 40,000 people have lost their right to unemployment benefit since 2013, and behind the 40,000 people there are people with life and history, such as: a former commercial woman from East Jutland who saw her work moving out of the country. She's now on cash benefits. The man is a teacher and has had stress and is also unemployed and has applied for more than 700 jobs, even at Anholt, from teaching positions throughout the country to canteen jobs, post jobs and jobs like strawberry picks. In a few months' time, he'll lose his daily allowance. Or for that matter, Marianne was fired after 30 years. She worked as a kitchen manager at the municipal nursing home, and after she was fired, she took all the work she could get. It is still not enough to receive benefits during the periods when she cannot get a job. As she writes to me, she's just interested in getting a job. She's been working every day since she left primary school. She just can't get a full-time job. It is just two examples of ordinary hardworking Danes who feel the bourgeois benefit reform. These aren't lazy people. Most of all, they want a job, and until that happens, it is our job to give them opportunities and hope, not the opposite. The deterioration in the daily allowance is more than the actual people who are caught up in it. It is also people who see their lives crumble. For the reform of the daily allowance is a threat to our entire labour market and, ultimately, the society we care about. People stop looking for new jobs, people get insecure, people feel insecure, and companies will face much less flexibility. We must act with this in mind. We have a duty to do so as responsible politicians. So dear government: Now gather the parties in the Folketing who want a solution and let us make an agreement. Our strength as a society also lies in the insistence that every human being can and will contribute; that we all have something to add; that we all have resources, we as a society cannot afford to waste. And that requires that we invest in people. In the SF, we want to spend a burgeoning recovery on investing in people, investing in communities and, not least, investing in a sustainable future for our children and grandchildren. We want to invest in a good public school and good day care institutions. Denmark is and must in future be the country where everyone, regardless of the size of their parents' purse, can get an education and strive for the life they want. This requires more educators in the institutions so that children can get the attention of adults who are so important. We need to strengthen early efforts towards vulnerable children and families in the municipalities and then invest in primary school so that the inclusion of vulnerable pupils can be achieved well. A good childhood, as you know, lasts a lifetime. A strong Denmark is also a sustainable Denmark. It is a Denmark that thinks forward and acts with a view to the future already today. We must push for sustainable development both at home and globally. More people must improve their living conditions without ending up in a climate and environmental disaster. It is precisely the global challenges that give Denmark some opportunities that we need to seize. Earth's population is growing right now with 77 million people a year, and we are rapidly on our way to 9 billion inhabitants on the planet. We must all eat and have clean drinking water and more prosperity from China to Canada. The challenge is that we have to do it in less place with less resource consumption and with less CO2 emissions Here we can deliver solutions to the problems they face around the world. It not only creates an advantage for our planet, but it creates export adventures and, above all, new jobs. I started by saying that with this terrible voice I regret that Denmark is a little pea on the big world map, but we are a strong society; a society that we must safeguard and develop; a society that brings out the best in us as people and in our businesses. And we're at a crossroads right now. If this is to be the case in the future, then action is required. Let us find a daily allowance solution now, let us invest in our children and primary school, let us invest in our planet and new jobs, let us do the job together, as we have done for generations. In this way, Denmark can continue to be the country that offers the most the best opportunities and living conditions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151034	Thank you to the rapporteur. A number of brief remarks have been made, so I hope the voice will hold up. First, it is Mrs Tina Nedergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151048	Thank you. I do not think the rapporteur should be so sorry about his vote. We in the Left know that each vote counts regardless of how it sounds on election day. Feel better about that. We could not really get an answer from the Socialist rapporteur, nor do I expect Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to answer for the government's policy in all and one now that the SF has chosen to resign from the government. I nevertheless find it interesting that the SF is attacking the blue block in order to bring the public sector into poverty and would save in the public sector when it is clear that 17 000 warm hands have been saved during Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt's Prime Minister's term. It is, in fact, a period in which SF's part has been in government, and in other words also has acted as a support party. So what is the SF's attitude to cutting public service by the government? That is one question. The second point I can see is that I will have to wait until the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151154	There is no doubt that while the SF was in government, we did not have any growth in the public sector because we turned up after an economic crisis that the bourgeois people had chosen not to take care of in good time. And it costs, it takes time. We were involved in this cleaning up while we were in government. I would like to say this honestly, because it has also created the room for manoeuvre that will allow us to actually increase growth in the public sector. What the Left wants, on the other hand, is to maintain zero growth in the public sector forward-looking, and that is serious, because we have already seen that it has consequences in the municipalities. You can't close your eyes to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151232	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151234	Thank you. Let us then acknowledge that this is the space that has been created and that we then want to use for tax cuts, so that it is better to create private jobs in Denmark, but which the government then to some extent devotes to agreeing with the SF and the Enhedslisten in the Finance Law negotiations. All I have to say is that faced with the choice between financing the many additional asylum seekers that the government has now had to face, in relation to what was laid down in the draft budget, on the one hand, and relaxing the rules on unemployment benefits on the other, what does the SF choose? Will more asylum seekers be financed, or will the rules on unemployment be relaxed? You can't have everything in this world.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151317	No, but the Left would really like tax cuts for two-digit billions if it were left to the Left. I think it is fair enough to make the distinction, in relation to how Denmark should cope in the future, because if you want to make massive tax cuts, which we saw the bourgeois make in the 00s in three laps, and thus they did not show due care to guard Denmark precisely against the economic crisis that you entered, it is actually unambitious. You did nothing to create new jobs; you lost 200,000 private jobs while you were in power. This government has created jobs, and that is why I do not accept the false contradiction about whether we should treat the asylum seekers who come to Denmark properly. You would have had to deal with that too, or whether there should be room in the Danish economy to do something about the loss of unemployment benefit. And I think there should be, because it creates security that makes people actually dare to change jobs. That's one of the challenges right now. It is to create flexibility in the labour market. It is strongly challenged because of the insecurity you have created with the unemployment benefit reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151427	Sir. Lars Barfoed of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151429	In spite of a slightly failing voice, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr succeeded in saying a great many things that could be addressed. I would like to address two issues, one with jobs and the other with the climate. I understand that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr believes that the way we should get out of the crisis, where we therefore have too few jobs, is that we need to invest more in the Community. It's a SF way of saying that we need more public crowns. Is it not true that this will mean greater deficits, more debt and less prosperity for future generations, for our children and grandchildren, because they are the ones who have to pay off the debt? If I am not right, is my question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that what really matters is that our private companies earn money so that they can create jobs and earn money so that we can afford the good public sector that we all want? However, we must invest in private companies, private jobs. That is what creates solid growth and prosperity, including for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151530	I think it is very thoughtful that the Conservatives can have such an old-fashioned business policy, because if you look out in reality, if you visit business companies, the first requirement they make is not more tax cuts. The first requirement they make is: Make some wise regulation; try to make sure you do what you do at Christiansborg in a wise way. Let me just give you an example: EnviDan, a water company located in Aalborg, which is actually growing very much at the moment, has grown from having three employees to now having 177 employees. They are because, among other things, we are. has made demands for climate adaptation. We have demanded how to take care of our water, among other things. also how to take care of our waste water. This means that we have made legislation, and it is in the interests of the Danes, because they can count on the water they drink not to be contaminated. It's kind of nice to know as a citizen of this country. On the other hand, it has created a great success, which actually grows out in the world, because the solutions the rest of the world will have. That's some of what they're looking for right now. They ask: can you make some more regulation, among other things. on clean drinking water, because that means that we can subsequently export those solutions to the rest of the world? So the thing about thinking that tax relief is what creates jobs for the future is really past.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151645	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151646	I do not think we will quite agree on this, but I think it is a good thing that we will see the difference in Danish policy. For Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can only speak of yes, then I will also use the word old-fashioned, sorry, when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr now makes it old-fashioned socialist policy in some belief that more regulation and higher public costs should create wealth and jobs. So it does not, it creates the opposite. After all, we agree that we need a good public sector, but that requires that some money be made in this country so that we can finance it. We also agree that we need to do something about the climate, and it also sounds like a bourgeois government would go completely wrong with it. Is it not true that my question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and I jointly with others in this Chamber actually under a bourgeois government, while I was Minister for Transport, invested more than ever in railways and bicycle paths, really green transport policy, and that we can now see throughout the country that railway lines, cycle paths and everything that also supports the climate are being built? Is it not true that it was carried out under a bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151759	It is true that a green transport agreement was made while Mr. Lars Barfoed was Minister for Transport, and I would say that was one of the most visionary things that ever happened under the bourgeois government; there is no doubt about that. We got invested in public transport, and we also got a lot of bike paths made. I'd like to give you that credit. Lars Barfoed. When it comes to the jobs of the future, and I am not talking about such a huge public sector, and that we have to have public jobs; I am talking about what it is that creates private jobs in Denmark and what it is that we increase exports out of this country so we know that what Denmark is making a living on is that Danish companies export to the rest of the world on a large scale. What are our success stories? Yeah, that's one of them. Grundfos and Danfoss, which are companies that deliver energy-saving solutions. They have pumps, they have thermostats, which are sold to a country like Russia, where otherwise heat is regulated in the room by opening and closing the window. It's a huge export success. They didn't show up on their own. This is because we have made demands in Denmark that we should make energy savings in state buildings. So slowly, this has meant that these companies have grown up and become some big players in the global market. That is an example. The second example is Novo Nordisk, who, when they showed up and made insulin, was given the opportunity to deliver it free of charge to the Danes because the state paid. They don't do that anymore, but that's how it was at first. They had a strong domestic market and are one of the biggest players in the global market. Now, it's visionary business policy, it's not just the thing about thinking that if we throw the money all over the place, they're probably gonna make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151930	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009151933	Thank you. I would actually like to declare myself a secret admirer of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, more specifically an admirer of the political flexibility of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who is at a level worthy of the Danish national gymnastics team. For 21⁄2 years, SF has been in government and has helped to adopt growth packages with tax relief on both work and for companies. They've missed the payment ring, the financial tax, the millionaire tax, the list is long. The ministerial cars have now left, and now you're back at SF-classic. Do you not, when you get up in the morning, as party leader, have a kind of moral hangover, where you just as quietly and quietly have to say: we have failed our values; we have failed our constituents? And do people trust the policy we are pursuing now that we are no longer in government? One might ask: Was it worth it? What I want to ask, then, is, because I feel that the indignation is so thick that you can cut it out and serve it as cake to those present, and even then there will still be something left over when the interview comes into the daily allowance: Is the party leader from the SF willing to make the daily allowance claim ultimate in the finance negotiations that are on the way? Will SF stand firm, or is it just theatrical order?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152040	Now it may be, because the rapporteur is a young man, that he does not know history. That's why I thought I'd go over the story. In 2010, the Left and Conservatives, together with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, adopted an allowance reform. The SF voted against. You may be in doubt about it when you listen to the questioner, but the SF actually voted against it. We did so with the Social Democrats, and we did so with the Enhedslisten. While we were in government, we were actually working to mitigate the unemployment benefit reform, and together with the other government partners we succeeded in the summer of 2013, among others. along with Enhedslisten, to make some improvements that very clearly made the phasing-in better than the one that was in the mess of an allowance reform that the Left and Conservatives had made, which was, of course, very serious for people who were losing their entire dependency base. We're kind of continuing that fight. I don't have a spine like a earthworm. It's kind of stiff and stiff, I promise you. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. That is why we are continuing to fight for benefits. There is, in that way, a quite common thread in the work. What I find to be thought-provoking is that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt says that compromise must not be reached as a political party. I have just heard the questioner's own party chairman say from the platform: yes, the Left is in favour of zero growth, but now we have to see when we get into government, because we cannot get all our policy through. In fact, the fair question will surely be: will the Left stand firm for zero growth no matter what when they come into government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152208	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152210	I thank you reverentially and humbly for that history lesson. I can always use that. There's just a few little things I'm puzzled about now that I've been taught. If you think you have done so excellently now that you have abandoned the essential elements of most of your electoral programme and if you think it is a success, I would not want to see what a failure looks like. But I also remember that the party leader said here recently that this Daily Money Commission is a jar, and I also remember when the party leaders and I met in the debate on this useful job that perhaps there was not such enthusiasm to trace afterwards. But my surprise is also that when you are so socially indignant on behalf of these people, why not mention the 30,000 Danish self-employed who rise every morning as a month after month go to work but who have an average income at the level of cash benefits? It is, of course, such a strategic objective that the SF has set itself to talk about benefit recipients rather than talking about people who actually need more help. I am surprised, but if Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinks it is neither a moral nor a political problem, then everything is joy and gammen and congratulations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152316	I certainly think that you should stand up for your opinions. SF has done that, and we're still doing it away. I think we have delivered a lot of things while we were in government. We have also made compromises. I believe that every party in a government has to enter into that. I also believe that the former VK government has reached compromises. But it is fair enough, I like the fact that when you are young, you are very idealistic and never think that a compromise should be reached. I would like to say, in relation to the benefit commission, that there are some things that have changed. The discussion we had earlier was that the Daily Money Commission should launch its proposal before an election, but after we have resigned from the government, the government has decided that it should launch its proposal after an election. Therefore, one can rightly say that it is not possible for the Danes to make a clear decision on this question at the next election, that is, on what they will choose. I think it would be fair to give the Danes an opportunity to do so by saying: if you choose us, you get this model; if you choose the blue ones, you get this model. That is really why we have done the campaign that we have done. When it comes to the Danes' desire to work, I think that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt must note that the Treasury has examined it, and the most thought-provoking thing is that if that premise were true, it would be eight out of ten low-paid people who should not go to work; then they should be at home on the couch and say hurrah. But the Danes are not like that. Here goes, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt quite wrong in the city with regard to the Danes' basic DNA. They want to work and they want to contribute to society. They're not nudges or parasites. They are something quite different; they want to work. I think they should be allowed to do so. Let's get some jobs together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152452	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152456	I am glad to hear that the rapporteur's back is better than his neck. The rapporteur says that the SF is not in favour of tax reductions. Can the rapporteur confirm that the SF has voted in favour of tax reductions, including tax reductions? I also remember that there was a tax reform and there was a lot of trouble in the rapporteur's party, compared to someone who would not vote for the one who was very skewed, because it hit the very people who were on transfer income very hard, and that is why disability organisations and others wrote. also to us that it hit them really hard. However, this is something that the rapporteur's party has voted in favour of and helped to adopt. Is this something the rapporteur regrets, in other words, having concluded these agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152545	No, SF doesn't regret the tax reform. I think that one of the important things about tax reform was that we should, among other things, do something about it. Made a tax relief for some of those who make the least money in this country. That kind of makes a lot of sense. Nor are we in general opposed to tax cuts; they just need to have a real social dimension. So if we could agree in here to lighten the tax for those who earn the least in this country, for example. Finding a tax on financial transactions, the SF would certainly like to be involved. This is not a position of principle, but if we are faced with the choice that the Left is putting before us, i.e. whether we want welfare or tax relief, there should be no doubt that then the SF will choose welfare. It might be interesting to know where the Danish People's Party is going, for it sounds like right now you are willing to actually swallow one tax relief after another at the expense of our common welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152640	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152641	I think the rapporteur is well aware of the position of the Danish People's That is what we said earlier, and it was a common plan then. And I remember that the rapporteur's then chairman, Mr. Villy Søvndal, was out saying bloodbath, massacre... I think it was... and what do I know? And that was sir. I guess Ole Sohn was also out to say. But the interesting thing is, what does the SF want now? SF now says that they have not regretted any of the agreements they have entered into. And then I can also understand that they have not regretted the cash benefits reform, that they have not regretted the early-flex reform. In fact, some of the reforms that the SF upholds, at least those that they say they uphold. So it is interesting to hear now that the rapporteur says that they have not regretted anything. Nevertheless, I think that the rapporteur's party is standing by the sink and washing its hands in relation to saying that you want to withdraw a lot of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152738	No, I don't think that's actually been SF's approach to stepping out of the government. We have both stood up for it when we were in government, and we have done so after we have resigned from the government. I think it is very thoughtful that the Danish People's Party is very concerned that they want to ensure the welfare, they want to increase welfare by 0.8%, and Mrs Karina Adsbøl says: It is important for us. But at the same time, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, when he stands on the platform, that you have no ultimate demand for a future blue government, as long as it is Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister of Denmark. This means that the Danish People's Party is also willing to compromise at the expense of welfare. So I don't think we should stick our eyes in each other's eyes. I think we should be honest with each other and say: yes, sometimes a compromise is reached and then the compromise is reached. But just so there is no doubt: SF prefers welfare rather than tax relief to the richest in this country, and we will continue to fight for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152841	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152844	When you listen to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, and indeed also when you have listened to the Prime Minister and the Socialist rapporteur, you think a little about what that is. Because there is not what wasn't wrong under the previous government that everything was awful, it could hardly get worse, but still, and I don't quite know why, it has been written in its government basis that it builds on the economic policy of the VK government in the broadest sense. You thunder it now. It just seems pretty historyless, but so much for that zigzag. See, the rapporteur says that the SF is against tax cuts, and that is fair enough. However, on the question from Mrs Tina Nedergaard, we did not get an answer as to whether SF would give priority to increased welfare costs or pay off the rising costs in the area of asylum. Is it because SF wants both and then combines it with rising taxes and taxes for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009152947	SF does not imagine that we are about to make tax increases in Denmark. We will look at the concrete estimate, which I know you are sitting and counting on at the moment in the ministries, of what it is going to cost. I have heard the bourgeois parties throw out different figures in relation to the cost of asylum, but I have not actually heard the Ministry of Finance or, for that matter, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Integration come up with a concrete figure on what the cost will be. First of all, we have to have that on the table before we start to deal with it. Secondly, there is no doubt that SF will give priority to welfare in this budget debate. I certainly hope that we can make a financial law with the government, which among other things. focus on our children, so we make sure that we can have more educators in the day institutions, that we can just get a better inclusion in the primary school, and not least that we increase the green effort here in Denmark. We can do that within the economic space that is in the Danish economy, without it being economic gallatias.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153046	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153047	I think that is bravely said by the SF. Well, you don't know the number, there isn't really anyone in the government who's revealed it, but SF is sure it's gonna be okay. I think that's brave. Therefore, it is just essential for me to get a complete handle on whether SF excludes that a financial agreement with SF may contain tax increases. Will SF provide clear security to the Danes, to business, to companies, that should SF participate in a finance law, there will be no rising taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153124	No, I wouldn't rule that out. That depends on the actual debate. SF does not go to negotiations with proposals for tax increases. I just want to say that is not SF's policy. However, the Finance Act is not only concluded with the SF, which I would like to point out. Unfortunately, we do not have enough votes. We would otherwise like to be alone in being a parliamentary basis for this government, but we are not. That is the parliamentary tradition here in the Folketing, and that is why I do not have to guarantee what other parties can do in the context of the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153157	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153200	In addition to having a little difficulty understanding the perpetual preoccupation of the Left with transfer income instead of jobs, I just have a question about the allowance. When the SF went into government in 2011 with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as Minister, the unemployment benefit reform was accepted as a starting point. This means that the SF has agreed to the benefit reform. Why, then, are you standing there pretending not to give that undertaking when you joined the government in 2011?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153243	I think it is funny that the rapporteur is very concerned that I am only talking about transfers and not jobs, and then he asks me a question about the benefit system. However, if I am to be honest, I think that would indicate that the rapporteur has not heard my speech at all. For the majority of my speech was about how we get the jobs of the future in Denmark, how we through wise regulation, instead of those 22 billion. kr., we spend on business support here and there, they focus money. This is one of the things I have done as trade minister in the previous government, where SF sat and where we were very concerned about what it is that strengthens the position of Danish companies in the global market. It has also meant, of course, that our exports are still on the increase. So this isn't because SF isn't preoccupied with jobs. It's one of the things we're most concerned with. But when people lose their jobs, you should also be aware that if there isn't a social security net, we create increased inequality in this country. And increased inequality also creates increased insecurity, it harms mobility in the labour market, and so it also harms our whole community if we come to see it in the long term • issues of crime and, in fact, the development of the welfare society Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153355	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153356	There are some discussions that you may not have to engage in, and I think I have so many disagreements with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about how to create jobs, that I thought it was too little to have a minute, but it may well be that we will have another opportunity to talk it through more. I still think we are being sidelined, and I understand that, because I would probably do that if I were the political rapporteur or party leader of the SF. SF accepted that the Radicals decided on the unemployment benefit policy by joining the government. And I just think, with respect for the Socialists too, that it is such a little hypocritical that the SF is now going out and saying: Now the Socialists can do what the SF itself could not. Because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr knows that's not right. So it's all just some sort of manipulation of the voters to try to attract more voices to the SF. After all, you have accepted the unemployment benefit reform, with the agreement of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, because they accepted a ministerial post. So the unemployment benefit reform, as it is, with the errors and shortcomings it may have, is something we can thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for not being changed during this parliamentary term, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153508	I'm almost getting the feeling that Mr. Knox... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll wanted us to change the unemployment benefit reform. And that is fair enough, if the Liberal Alliance now joins the choir of people who have become wiser then you are welcome to the heart. In the SF, we are not sitting down and saying that politics should be like that, for example. was 20 years ago. We keep dealing with things that change. So when it is not about 2,000-4,000 people falling out of the benefit system, as we saw Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen said when he stepped out of the door of the Ministry of Finance and had done the unemployment benefit reform in 2010, we also have to deal with it. We're talking about more than 40,000 people. We've made some temporary arrangements with the government, but I guess they're temporary. That is why we need to take it seriously if we want to secure that network under Denmark • a social security network. It does not only mean something to those who have lost their jobs; it also means a great deal to those who are in the labour market. Check out 3F's last survey of their members: What concerns them most is the security of their work. If they lose their jobs, they are concerned about whether there is a safety net; they feel insecure. You can sit in the Liberal Alliance laughing loudly because the high-paid people in Denmark are doing well, so why worry about the others? But I would say that in SF we are actually concerned about some of the people who also live on the brink of society and who have difficulty finding work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153636	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Thranum from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153640	Thank you. Why will SF not help to create tax incentives for companies so that companies can offer even more jobs? It must be better to get a job than to get a cash allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153659	In SF, we are very concerned about finding jobs and creating jobs. We have among other things. With the two growth packages, large public investment has been set in motion. We know this is important in terms of creating new jobs. When I was Minister for Transport and we rolled out the Fehmarn Belt project, one of the elements was also advanced investment on Lolland-Falster, which we knew created jobs locally. Private contractors invited in. Apprenticeships were even created. We are very concerned about what creates jobs in Denmark. That is why we have also actively participated in the government's growth teams. There should be no doubt about that. So I simply do not understand the contradiction that is about the fact that you cannot both create jobs and then take care of the people who fall out. That's one part. The second part is that of thinking that tax relief only in itself creates jobs. We've been in on it, among other things. to make a lightening of the energy tax because we recognised that there were some companies that got into a mess. But to think that as long as you throw money at people, it creates jobs is a premise I do not recognise, and I think you could see it under the bourgeois government in the '00s. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153807	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153808	However, when SF wants to spend a lot of money on unemployment benefits, it certainly does not create jobs. At least that is something we must be able to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153819	The SF suggests that instead of being 12 months old today, instead of being 12 months old, you should work 12 months to be entitled to the allowance, you will be reduced to 6 months old. The advantage of that is that some people will say: okay, you'll still take that temporary work; you'll just take that seasonal work, even if it's only one month or two months, because you have a hope or a presumption that you can reach the 6 months that give you a right to unemployment benefit again, if you're so unlucky that it's not a permanent job. In this way, our proposals for unemployment benefit reform also help to make people more secure in the labour market. It really also makes it easier for business to hire and fire people. Because if we don't solve this by creating a strong social security net, we'll start seeing some other agreements and some resignations stay longer. This is affecting business, and in the end it will mean that they do not hire people in the same way as they have done in the past. So I think it should be borne in mind that these things are connected. It's not isolated things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153921	Thank you. That was the last questioner, and so I would like to thank the rapporteur for the SF. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur's speech, which is from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009153945	Thank you. The opening debate today is not just any opening debate. That is the last before all of us are accountable to the electorate. Therefore, it is also being the last call to show the voters that there is a difference between red and blue in Danish politics. A lot of people are wondering if there is a difference. Unfortunately, it is understandable that this is some way along the way and probably also inevitable some way along the way, in that the government itself has undertaken to pursue the economic policy of the government of the VK. But it is important that the differences emerge. Because there is a difference, even if, in the view of Enhedslisten, they should be much greater, even if we are to hope to win that election. A left-wing government would never have abolished poverty benefits and introduced a poverty line. A Left Government did not take up the fight against social dumping on the contrary. On the contrary, it did not take steps for green conversion: it strengthened blind growth. As we have been documented here today, the Left has no plan, or rather they do not want to go out with it. For then it becomes clear that the price of their zero growth plan is inferior welfare, more user payments, more unemployed, more social dumping. For the Left, we know where we have: always in the front, when tax cuts are to be distributed to the high-paid and the rich; always in the front, when private companies are to have better opportunities to put the trunk into the treasury; always in the front, when cutting down on the unemployed and the sick, people with disabilities and people on the run; but never in the front, when it comes to combating poverty; never in the front, when it comes to combating social dumping. Do we also know where we have the Danish People's Party? They want public growth of 0.8%. Praise for that. You have now realised that the recovery period for the daily allowance must be halved, at least until the benefit commission has spoken. Praise for that. They want to spend more money on care for the elderly. Praise for that. We are happy to use their votes to create a majority for these things, and we think the government should do so too. But that does not change the fact that we know where we have the Danish People's Party when the votes are counted, namely as faithful supporters of Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who will quite the opposite on these points. And how will the Danish People's Party finance their promises? The answer blows in the wind, except that the Danish People's Party is always prepared to let the poor out in the world and at home pay. Let us use the last time before the parliamentary elections to clarify the difference between red and blue. The recipe isn't that hard. We must give concrete answers to specific problems. The unemployed need jobs. But then let us get them a job and not give them a calculation of labour supply. The workers need good pay and working conditions. They must negotiate that themselves, but we can and we must give them a better framework if we mean something by the toast speeches for the Danish model. Everyone who is at work needs security if they become unemployed and sick. They do not have that security today with reforms of early retirement, cash benefits, early retirement, cash benefits, and sickness benefits. We all need support from the community in the course of our lives; we need a secure welfare society • children, young, old. We in the Danish Parliament must ensure that. How do we feel about it? Some people in here may think that things are going well, or at least better. Ask the people. That is not the widespread opinion. More and more people know an unemployed person who can't make the economy stick together. More and more people know a long-term sick person who loses his sickness benefit. More and more people can see the consequences of many years of tax relief and budget tyranny towards municipalities: elderly people in nursing homes who are not being changed; elderly people who are being eaten off with a week-old lunch package; children in crowded institutions; people with disabilities who are being deprived of aids and their companions; students who are exposed to stressful teachers. Or ask, for example. the students who support my speech here outside today with some good music. Ask them if they are satisfied with endless cuts and lack of internships. How bad can it get? When do we say, who has the ultimate responsibility, stop? When do we give priority to welfare rather than tax relief to the rich and the high paid, as some of us jointly promised before the elections? And when do we take responsibility from the Folketing for having a planet to live on in the future? If everyone on earth did what we did, we'd need a lot more planets. I can't do that. There must be a thorough transition of the whole economy to a green transition. We need to build our society and our development on principles other than blind growth, and we need to start now. That's the way we're going to go if we're going to show that there's a difference between red and blue. The Finance Act is a good place to start, a good place to create hope for those voters who obtained a new majority in the last elections in the hope of a different policy. In the Enhedslisten we have played out four themes: Greater security for employees, among others. by halving the recovery period of the daily allowance and by cancelling the mutual dependent of the unemployed person on cash benefits. Restoring welfare: We must, among other things,: better care for the elderly, and our children need better care. The wage earner must be stronger through stronger action against social dumping. We need legislation on chain liability and mandatory working clauses in all public contracts so that taxpayers' money is not misused for social dumping and we can give them better legislation on business transfers. We need a green switch. The Enhedslisten will support renewable energy massively and press for the conversion of agriculture to ecology. There are a lot of good jobs in that. We do not come to financial law negotiations with ultimate demands. We leave these things to others. But satisfactory results in these areas are the key to a finance agreement with the Enhedslisten. These are very important issues that need to be addressed now. But in these days, in these hours, it is also absolutely urgent that we ask: how do we feel about taking responsibility for the world around us? Once upon a time, we were proud to come from Denmark. We were seen as a pioneering country in the fight for peace and solidarity, and we were among the first to help people on the run and poor people in the world. It's not like that anymore. Now we're among the first on the wings, among the first to drop the bombs. When will we have an open discussion with the Danish people about experiences and consequences? When are we going to relate to the experience of the three wars that are that we left behind a chaos that was greater than when we started; which is that terrorism, religious fanaticism and hatred against us here in the West has only been fed again? The cost has been frightening: hundreds of thousands of dead soldiers and civilian and massive refugee flows. That alone should commit us to a broad public debate on the objectives and means of our foreign policy. The Enhedslisten wants Denmark to become a pioneering country again. We will again be known to put peaceful solutions at the top to help people in need, not only where they live, but also by providing them with shelter when they are on the run. Fortunately, Denmark still does, but what is our current response to people fleeing from Assad's terrorist regime and ISIL's fascist attacks? Should our answer really be that they cannot bring their spouses and their children up here, but must still live in uncertainty about their fate? It cannot be right that Denmark should sink so deep. We urge the government to change its attitude in this matter. It is good that Denmark is helping the Kurds in Northern Iraq with humanitarian aid and weapons. But it is simply unbearable to see Kobani's inhabitants massacred by ISIL, while Denmark's NATO allies, Turkey, cross their arms and look the other way. I urge the government to immediately follow the proposals of the Enhedslisten so that we can extend humanitarian and arms support to the Kurds in northern Syria who are fighting a lonely and desperate fight against the IS. We need to take responsibility for the world around us. We need to contribute more solidarity and help that works to the world around us. We need to push the green transition, so we have a habitable globe also beyond our own lifetime. And we need to strengthen the community; a community with a well-functioning labour market, a secure social safety net and welfare for everyone, not just for those who can afford it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009154931	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then a number of brief remarks have been written in. First, sir. Peter Christensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009154939	Thank you. I could understand that the Enhedslisten does not have any ultimate requirements for the financial law negotiations. No one does, for it is usually a little unwise. However, I would like to know what kind of thinking the Enhedslisten has in connection with the financial law negotiations, because we were at the meeting yesterday with the Finance Minister and we could well hear that it was not the Left that the government wanted to make finance law with, it was with the Enhedslisten. Now we have a debate today where we can hear that the costs of asylum seekers are exploding. The Socialist rapporteur replied that this would be financed, in fact a little surprising for me, by making use of the reserves in the Finance Act. This means, of course, that the money that Enhedslisten had been promised is now being spent on more asylum seekers. The reason why I found this surprising is that they are actually taken from development aid. That's the way you usually finance it. My question to Enhedslisten is: What do you really want to do is do what you normally do, namely take the money from development aid, or take the money from that pool of 1.5 billion? kr., which were gifts that Enhedslisten actually had to distribute himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155053	Thank you to the rapporteur for that question. This is a very important issue to discuss, because there is no doubt that we are facing a major challenge in solving the commitment that Denmark and the government are apologising for, as Enhedslisten and the government believe should be promised, no doubt about it. We are not usually faced with a choice between two evils, if we may say so. That's what's in this situation. We think it makes sense not to take the money from aid from the developing countries. It would be extremely short-sighted and really stupid to do so, because that would mean that we would make the problems around the world worse, with the result that there could be even more refugees out of it. Nor do we think it is a good starting point to take them from these reserves that the government is setting up. After all, we do not know the government's concrete proposals, so we are a little blind about this. No, Enhedslisten has a much better idea of it. We think it is fair that we are looking at the rich and high-paid people in this country who have received substantial tax relief over the past many years. It started under the government of the VK with the support of the Danish People's Party. We can just go back to 2009, when tax cuts were granted for 7.4 billion. kr. to the 10%. The richest in this country. In fact, we think it is time that we looked at the means to finance the challenge of helping people flee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155222	Sir. Peter Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155223	Well, that is an interesting answer, because it will actually end up with Mrs Maja Panduro being right. This is so true that blind hen can also find grain, because I don't think the government would have expected these reserves to be used to finance the large number of refugees coming to Denmark, this almost uncontrolled bill that is about to arise. But I actually interpret a little the answer there, that you prefer to tax a few Danes with a fire. You're gonna fight hard for that. If we can't do this, then it has to be the reserves, because development aid isn't in this equation, or how do you want to rank the different bids that came from Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155325	I'd like to say to Mr. Peter Christensen, that this isn't about brand taxing some Danes, it's about saying to the 10%. richest in this country: Now we take some of the money you got in 2009. We don't even have to take them all, I think, to solve this problem. It is surely very reasonable that this population should contribute to the coherence of our welfare society and that we should be able to fulfil our international obligations. They could afford to pay that tax in 2009, so maybe they can afford to pay it today too. So this is the priority of Enhedslisten when we enter these negotiations. Then we'll see what the government is putting forward. After all, we have not even yet received a concrete statement from the government on how much the challenge is and how the government will solve it. We will come to that if we are invited to discuss it, what we hope for, and then we must find the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155425	Mrs Inger Løbberg for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155428	Thank you. Now I understand that the Enhedslisten will implement an asylum tax, one might call it that. At least that is what is being proposed now. It has to be said that both Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and Mr Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen have not shunned hard words. Finn Sørensen, even though the development in the area of asylum seekers and, above all, the consequences of this small tightening-up, which has been set in motion in the area of family reunification. But it can also be said that words without action are not very worthwhile, and so I would like to know whether it could simply become a condition for the Enhedslisten to enter into the financial law negotiations at all, that this proposal on family reunification should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155524	I am grateful for the question, and I would ask Mrs Inger Løbberg to rewind to her party comrade, who not long ago found that none of us are meeting with the ultimate requirements for negotiations for the simple reason that it is not wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155545	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155546	Well then, I think that Enhedslisten should give some thought to the words used by Enhedslisten, because it has to be said that there has been quite an earring to the government over the last day and a half, where we have discussed asylum seekers and where we have discussed family reunification rules. One must then just note that one has Enhedslisten, who jumps up like a lion and falls down like a lamb, but we have seen this before, so nothing new in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155619	I guess I don't have to repeat my rapporteur's speech. We have a vertical disagreement with the government about restricting the possibility of family reunification. That is what our criticism has been about. Furthermore, we have no criticism that the government is trying to meet the challenge of refugees from Syria. I think it is very clear what the disagreement is about, and it would surely be a strange party which did not try to mark its differences very strongly before entering into some negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155648	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155653	Me? I think there must have started a new system, it's usually after party size. But there may have been choices, I don't know. I really just want to hear sir. Finn Sørensen about, now that he has told about all the good things, Enhedslisten would like to do what you really imagine. Now we've put it out that we want a minus growth of 11⁄2%. What does Mr. Finn Sørensen tell you that he wants a plus growth? I don't suppose it's 0.6% that the government imagines we're out in. It must be something much more ambitious or whatever to call it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155734	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155736	We have not determined a certain percentage, but not so long ago I have praised the Danish People's Party for wanting to achieve a growth called 0.8%. We would also like to do so; then we are two parties moving in that direction. So the question is: where are the best chances of getting through with it? As things stand at the moment, they are not large in some of the places, but after all we note with some satisfaction that there is a difference between 0 and 0.6.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155809	Yeah, and on 0.8 and on all sorts of other numbers. At least now we came somewhere along the way. Now we know that it is at least 0.8, but if you see the wish list with which Enhedslisten enriches the Danish population daily, then we have to assume that it is significantly more. In other words, 0.8 is an entirely unrealistic expectation of the increase in public consumption when you hear about all the proposals that Enhedslisten makes. I also imagine in the long term that the public sector should be responsible for things that the rest of us do not, in our worst nightmare, have the idea that the public should stand for. There must surely be an expectation that public consumption will increase almost explosively. Can we get a number that's a little closer? Is it 8.0 instead of 0.8 or what are we really into?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009155900	There is no need to put such figures on. What is important is that the public sector increases with the need to fulfil the tasks it has to fulfil. And then I think that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll had to study Enhedslisten's general economic policy and all our proposals, for then he would find that among the Enhedslisten's proposals there are many proposals that create concrete jobs for people, contrary to the economic policy which Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll supports the idea that large companies will be lured into investing by giving them more tax relief. We can just look at the development of employment since 2009 that economic policy, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has also helped to support, the fact that it simply does not work. After all, it does not lead to an increase in employment; employment today is at the same level as it did in 2009. Somewhere between 120,000 and 140,000 jobs are still missing in order to achieve the number of jobs that we were at before the crisis broke through, despite countless crisis packages, despite numerous tax cuts to the rich.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160020	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160023	Thank you. A large part of the debate we have here today and in other contexts is, of course, about what economic policy each party has and how the ends can reach together when the parties have a slightly different approach to economic policy. After all, there is a great deal of interest in those parties that want a change of government: how can their economic policy come together? And to find out whether it is now possible to get Enhedslisten's economic policy to achieve in a similar way with, for example: The government's, we need to know what the prerequisites of the parties are. What is the starting point of the parties? As Mr. Finn Sørensen has explained, Dansk Folkeparti has a starting point to discuss, and now we just ask quietly: What is Mr. Finn Sørensen's financial starting point? It is, after all, up to 2020 about what public real growth must be. What does the public sector need to grow with in order for it to be linked economically? So I guess it's not too much to ask for an answer in an opening debate. Well, sir. Finn Sørensen, if I am going to help him a little, confirm that the Enhedslisten has previously advocated a growth in the public sector corresponding to the general development of prosperity in society? Could it, for example? Get there, and we could get closer to the percentages.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160132	Well, thank you for helping me answer. It is absolutely true that we have said in the past, and it is a good principle that the growth of the public sector should at least correspond to the development of gross domestic product. Otherwise, the public sector will gradually become, and that is what has been the aim of the VK government, less and less, with the result that welfare is getting worse and that we cannot solve the tasks that we have to fulfil as public authorities in municipalities and states and regions. So that is an excellent principle and what a specific percentage will result in, I will not allow myself to be lured into saying anything about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160215	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160216	No, but if you follow the 2020 plan as it has been set, it is probably 1.8 to 1.9 per cent, and it should perhaps have been Mr. Finn Sørensen, who answered it. This is roughly equivalent to the fact that by 2020 employment in the public sector is more than the government has proposed, i.e. approx. 62,000. - Sir... Finn Sørensen confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160240	If we want to solve the problem of employment in the public sector only, that is probably true; I do not have to dispute that figure. But now Enhedslisten actually has an ambition that we should also create jobs in the private sector. Well, if you took the trouble to study our proposal, you'd see that we put a lot of emphasis on it. What we are just saying there is that it is not growth for growth, that is, what we call blind growth. It is about creating real jobs which, at the same time, contribute to a green transition in society. Let us take a concrete example of energy renovation of all public buildings: these are really good investments, where money comes back quickly in the form of cheaper heating and electricity bills and which, at the same time, provide some real jobs for unemployed construction workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160335	Sir. Kristian Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160339	I'd like to continue a little where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl escaped. Earlier this day there has been a great deal of interest in the economic plan of the Left, and if Mr. Finn Sørensen was not here, I can just repeat that we have joined the government's 2020 plan, except that we do not want growth in the public sector. But now that the government parties have been so interested in what plan we have, I would like to know where the Enhedslisten's economic plan is by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160409	That was, of course, apparent from my previous answers. It has to be a plan where there is a much better balance between the growth of the public sector and the growth of gross domestic product, so that we can ensure the welfare of this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160426	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160427	Sir. Finn Sørensen used the passive turn it should be. I ask, where is it? What plan has Enhedslisten put forward that shows how Enhedslisten thinks the economy should evolve towards, let's just say 2020, which is the year we other use the government is using, and we use it when we say how it should evolve? Now we have heard Lars Løkke Rasmussen has answered so many times clearly, and so we would really just like to hear: Has Enhedslisten put a plan over Danish economy in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160508	We have put forward a series of proposals for the development of the public sector and they are all funded. We have put forward a series of proposals which will benefit employment in this country with concrete jobs, as opposed to the economic policy pursued by the Left and Conservatives, and which, unfortunately, the government has endorsed at least the basic principles in which it believes that the employment problem can be solved by granting tax relief to the rich and the high-paid in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160539	Mrs Lene Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160541	I would like to change the subject completely and talk about Syria and the new role of Enhedslisten, where Enhedslisten has sprung out as an advocate of arms trafficking and arms supplies to the Kurds. Now I have been following the Enhedslisten and their views in the field of foreign policy for quite many years, and every time we have discussed conflicts, the Enhedslisten has consistently said: you should not deliver weapons because you risk them ending up in the wrong hands. Therefore, I would very much like to hear Mr. Finn Sørensen explains here in the Assembly Hall how Enhedslisten can give a guarantee that delivering weapons to the Kurds in Kobani is not just handing over a lot of new weapons to ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160630	We are listening to what the Kurds are saying in this situation and what we also hear experts in military matters and in the conflict that is going on down there, saying that the main problem is that the Kurds lack some heavy weapons to defend themselves against the tanks that ISIL has conquered from the Iraqi Government and the Iraqi army. The Kurds themselves are able to solve that problem if they get the necessary weapons. In fact, we do not find that disputed in some places, and that is why Enhedslisten has said that what we should do in this situation is do what we can to give the Kurds the weapons they need to strike ISIL back. And we simply cannot understand that the rest of the Folketing will not relate to the situation and to the specific bid we are making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160737	Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160739	This is probably not the time for us to embark on a longer debate on what military weapons are used, but I would like to say to Mr Van der Klaauw. Finn Sørensen, it's quite fresh to say that it's weapons that have to wipe out the tanks. I believe that fighters are better able to do more effectively than people on earth. This means that the view of the Enhedslisten is that in the three years when moderate forces have wanted democracy in Syria and have fought against both ISIL and a dictator, Assad, who has killed his own people with chemical weapons, the Enhedslisten has said: No, of course you cannot get weapons, because they can end up in the wrong hands. But now that it's the Kurds, and ISIL's standing right next to you, yes, there's no problem in handing over weapons. Well, Enhedslisten apparently has some assurance that those weapons won't end up in the hands of ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160831	It is the same assurance that the Americans had when they gave the Iraqi Government some tanks and where we can now see that those tanks are running around on the wrong side guided by ISIL soldiers. After all, no one in a war situation can give a hundred per cent guarantee that some weapon will not end up in the wrong hands. However, as the situation is, we believe that it is the right action, the right action, if we want to give real support to the Kurds. And it is not true, Mrs Lene Espersen, that the planes are the best means of destroying those tanks. It may not be disputed that the bombings have had an effect in the current situation. We should not try to contest that, but that is not a solution to the problem. Tanks can also be hidden off the road. They can be driven into civilian areas where the danger of the bombing is that innocent civilians will be killed, which unfortunately has already happened in this situation. That's why it's... yeah, that's right. I told you what I wanted, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160936	Mrs Tina Nedergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009160940	Thank you. In the best of all of Enhedslisten's worlds, you might imagine that you could visit the finance minister and then make a Finance Act, where you got a bit of everything you want, and more so that the public sector could be boosted with among other things. some massive increases in taxes on the highest income from work in Denmark. It would be the best of all of Enhedslisten's worlds. If you now know a little about the government and the finance minister, you can imagine that that is not necessarily what they are going to meet with. That is why there will be a reality for the Enhedslisten, and that is, of course, that priority must be given, unless one is prepared to overthrow the government... not a bad word about it if it comes to that. However, should this not be the case, the Enhedslisten must, of course, give priority to the legislative expenditure that is quadruple legislation, including for asylum seekers, and new costly initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161054	The best of Enhedslisten's worlds is a world where we can solve the specific problems of people who are in a difficult economic and social situation. I think it was very clear from my rapporteur's speech that this is the common thread of Enhedslisten's policy and then we fight to get the best possible solutions out of a negotiating situation. And then I agree with Mrs Tina Nedergaard's understanding that politics is a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161125	Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161127	Thank you. Now the lucky thing happened after the elections that at that time the new government chose to build on the economic policy of the government of the VK and thank you for that, but it is quite remote from the economic policy of Enhedslisten, one must acknowledge. Even the Enhedslisten's rapporteur does not even believe that the present government will succeed in pursuing the economic policy of Enhedslisten, therefore priority must be given. Let us say that it is the given framework that the government has put forward in the draft budget which will apply to the negotiations that will be held with the Enhedslisten. Will the Enhedslisten choose to finance the legal costs arising from the legislation implemented in the Folketing, including the financing of the far, far more asylum seekers than had been foreseen? Or will the Enhedslisten insist that new initiatives can be taken that will make the public sector grow beyond the expectations of the government? And there it is already growing, so that you use the very last crown available within the maximum. 3% I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161240	Yes, it is all hypothetical, so I can only confirm once again Mrs Tina Nedergaard's own understanding that politics is a priority, and we shall do so when we sit at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161254	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161256	Thank you. I felt that Mr. Finn Sørensen believes that it is important, up to the next elections, to point out what the difference is between a red and a blue policy, and this was also done in the run-up to the previous elections. I am in a municipal council at Frederiksberg, where we received a note from the SF, telling us how many million kroner would be allocated to Frederiksberg. Now we can do the math, and it has turned out that we at Frederiksberg have had to save 4.1 per cent. the annual operating expenditure since 2011. This is quite a lot, so we look forward to coming from the minus growth that this really is, and looking up at the zero growth or the cost stop, whether you want to be left and Conservatives talk about. - Sir... Finn Sørensen confirm that the difference between a blue and a red policy, at least as it has been conducted in recent years, will be that a municipality like Frederiksberg with a blue policy will get more money between its hands than with a red policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161356	No, I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161402	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161406	- Sir... Finn Sørensen confirm that 0 is a larger number than negative 4.1?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161415	It's probably gonna be hard to get around; so much mathematics and it wasn't very much I've had at school. So I guess it's gonna be hard to explain it away.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161420	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161424	Thank you, sir. President. I would really like to stick to economic policy, because it is no secret that we have seen relatively many attempts from the Enhedslisten here in the Folketing in recent years to achieve quite significant cost increases. One of the things I particularly remember as a development rapporteur is that the Enhedslisten's development rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl, during a debate here in the Danish Parliament, argued that we should double the Danish development aid, which is about 16.5 billion. kr. Today. This means that it should rise to 33 billion. kr. There, of course, I find it interesting, first of all, to confirm the story once more. Of course, we can easily find it and, secondly, also to hear about the financing of being able to give this a lot of money away. After all, we have had finance laws that Enhedslisten has supported, and these finance laws operate with a billion deficit on the state's finances. If we consider that development aid should be increased by 16 billion. kr., I'd like to know where the money's coming from.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161534	Now it is a little entertaining that the Danish People's Party should be accused of throwing around proposals that cost many, many billions. It has already been documented in the debate here that it is at least quite good for the Danish People's Party. Then we get the explanation from the Danish People's Party that the fact that you make a large number of wishes and proposals is not the same as that they have to be implemented here and now and on the spot. That is absolutely right. All parties have the right to make their proposals and wishes in various areas, including those which cost a terrible lot of billions. What is the litmus test for all of us is that the proposals we are making in a negotiating situation, which we want to fight to get through in a negotiating situation, must be funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161628	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161630	I do not think I was given an answer as to how this funding is to be indicated, but it must, of course, stand for Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen's own bill. Something else, of course, is that sir. Christian Juhl, on the basis of the Swedish Parliamentary elections, has also said that he really wants a similar situation in Denmark, where, after a forthcoming parliamentary election, someone is deliberately chosen from it. Let us now say that the Danish People's Party will then have 40 seats. Then they simply have to be pulled out of the equation, so that when you have to make a constitution and look at who should have the opportunity for government formation etc., you simply have to ignore the 40 democratically elected parliamentarians in the Danish Parliament. I would really like to hear this formally, now that we have the opportunity to do so today: is it really the policy of the Enhedslisten, or is it something that stands for Mr. Christian Juhl's own bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161722	Christian Juhl made a statement that was among a large number of other statements and where one theorem was ripped out of context. It could be misunderstood, and indeed it was. The policy of Enhedslisten is clear, also in relation to a collaboration with Dansk Folkeparti. That's where I think the same mr. Christian Juhl has said it very well. He has said that we are working with the hell ourselves if it can help the security of the unemployed. It was on that occasion that it was said. I think this is a very graphic and correct description of our attitude towards cooperation with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161802	Sir. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161804	The last sentence I think we should leave uncontroversial. Now I could understand the answer to among others. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and also to Mr. Kristian Jensen earlier on it is commendable with clear answers from the Enhedslisten, after all that Enhedslisten wants the economic growth of the public sector to be followed in such a way as to how things are going, in other words, in relation to gross domestic product. Does this also mean that if the gross domestic product, as it is at present, does not increase, it can actually become negative, that in the Enhedslisten's optics you should fire public employees as well? And who will be given priority by the Enhedslisten in that case should be fired first from the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161846	I do not think the rapporteur heard the whole answer. It was that it should at least follow the growth of gross domestic product. In addition, we have to look at what these tasks are, and I would like that to be the case. Jacob Jensen and the other parties, who are so concerned about these growth figures, would relate a little more to what tasks the public sector has to perform in the field of welfare, in the field of education and all the other tasks it has as a public sector, with all that it involves state, regions and municipalities. The discussion must be about what tasks need to be solved, what level we want for our welfare, and then we must find the money to the level that can now be agreed on/majority for. That is the approach we need to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161936	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009161937	But should I understand it as if there is a certain minimum amount of money if the gross domestic product actually gets negative, then the Enhedslisten will not go in and fire? Is this a cost freeze level that will be applied by the Enhedslisten, or what are we talking about? Surely there must be some reflection on the part of the Enhedslisten when in his reply to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and to Mr. Kristian Jensen says that at least we want the public sector economy to keep up with gross domestic product. So I simply ask: if gross domestic product becomes negative, what is the level that Enhedslisten imagines? For example, is it... a stop to spending?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162015	This is a completely theoretical discussion. I have described what our principle is and that is what we want to work for. And then we will look at the tasks that the public sector has to perform, and we will look at what it takes to ensure that we do not, at least, reduce the welfare of this country, but improve it. That is, of course, the approach to it, rather than being guided by a completely theoretical approach to it, as Mr. Jacob Jensen does.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162042	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162044	I would also like to follow up on this with the funding of the Enhedslisten's many proposals. Sir. Finn Sørensen was not opposed to the implementation of Enhedslisten's proposal, which would mean a growth of about 1.8%. This is equivalent to spending just over 60 billion. kr. more in the public sector. The 60 billion. kr. After all, it cannot be obtained by roll-back tax reforms or top tax reliefs. They cannot be obtained by taxing the North Sea oil harder. This would mean that less oil would be extracted. So where is it and let's just say it's 40 billion. In addition to top tax reliefs to be rolled back, and the North Sea oil to be taxed, you will find 40 billion. kr. in Danish society? Who is it that has to be taxed harder, what kind of taxes have to be raised, what kind of taxes have to be set up to finance all of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162141	Enhedslisten has no ambition to tax himself out of that issue. After all, it is a question of creating some real jobs, and that is what I must insist on all the time: that Enhedslisten is actually one of the few parties, and I would like to count SF in this regard, which also emphasises that what we need to do is create real jobs that, at the same time, benefit the climate and the environment in this country. It can be done. Innumerable proposals have been put forward both from Enhedslisten and from environmental organisations, yes, the trade union 3F has created a complete catalogue in which they document that 50,000 green jobs can be created in this country. And that is what we need to deal with, and that is what we need to do. Then we will be able to obtain the funding needed to improve welfare as well. That is the basis of Enhedslisten's economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162240	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162241	But even if Enhedslisten succeeds in creating 50,000 green jobs, it will not come near a funding of 40 billion. kr. You're far, far from it. The Enhedslisten cannot escape the fact that one has to raise taxes significantly. Apart from the fact that it will have a very negative impact on GDP and on our prosperity development, the Enhedslisten cannot escape the fact that one will have to do so. You are far from achieving the financing of your wishes, so you have to respond and get a little closer. I guess it's fair to the voters too that you can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162321	It is clear that some will pay more in taxes. We have not concealed that, and we have also set a very clear address on who it is: that is the 10%. The richest in this country that has benefited primarily from the crisis. And then I've said it's also right that we don't imagine ourselves or anyone else that you can solve all welfare problems by means of it. The key to the whole thing is to create real, living jobs in this country instead of the hollow spreadsheets that we are repeatedly presented with, and instead of a policy that is about lubricating the big companies and the rich with one tax relief after another in a naive hope that then they will start to invest, which the reality shows they are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162412	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162417	Thank you for the floor. I think it is incredibly brave of my colleague, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen to start discussing economics with Mr. Finn Sørensen. I have also tried at some point and the result was sad for both parties. That is why I would just like to ask Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen about something quite different. Now, Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen at one point becomes an older gentleman and sits and enjoys his retirement with coffee and vanilla rants and thinks back to his time in the country's parliament, could it not be that the first period as a support party, parliamentary basis for the so-called red government feels a little bit angry? We have been sitting for four years now, and the results achieved in purely political terms are, to say the least, skinny. It is not just something that a Leftman like me says; it is something that prevails, if not agreed, then an idea of. Could Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't explain to me what it is that Enhedslisten gets out of supporting the government and why you are so persistent to see it continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162506	At least I was happy with Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's turn: When I once thank you for that. Otherwise, maybe I should ask sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt about just rewinding my rapporteur's speech, because there I think it was actually very well described what we in the Enhedslisten think we have got out of this government. We've got some things out of this government that we wouldn't have achieved under any circumstances with a VK government supported by the Danish People's Party. We have had an effort to combat social dumping, which did not exist under the previous government at all. We have abolished poverty benefits. I am not saying benefits and that is to say, it is clear that, together with this government, we have taken a small step in the right direction when it comes to increasing equality and reducing poverty in this country. I could go on like that, but I don't think speaking time will allow that. We will, when we stand on election day, make up the board and say: What did we get out of it, and what did we not get out of it? Unfortunately, we did not have a new economic policy, no, and that is the main problem Yes, thank you! ) in our relationship with this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162625	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162627	Then I would like to congratulate you on an ID card on construction sites and on the abolition of services that send people directly back on cash benefits. That must then be judged as a success. Something else is that I am deeply impressed by Enhedslisten's new fascination with the possibility of throwing weapons down to fellow fighters, one feels associated with • some might think that Mr. Finn Sørensen has come into the Folketing dressed in a pigeon's feather and takes away as a hawk and therefore I am a little interested in knowing how far Enhedslisten's willingness to use military power and to give weapons to what one perceives as friendly combatants actually extends. What's that in mr. Finn Sørensen's optics that qualify groups around the world to receive arms support from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162710	Now we are doing it in the Enhedslisten that we are trying very specifically to analyse the situation we find ourselves in and, unlike so many others, for example. Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's party, we always start by discussing: what peaceful solutions are there in this situation? In this situation, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary and the right solution to the situation in which the Kurds find themselves to give them weapons so that they can fight down ISIL's tanks, because we do not believe that the bombardments can solve the problem and the enormous pressure that the Kurds face. That is the analysis we have carried out. It is confirmed by what can reasonably be called independent experts. In any case, the American Government's spokesman acknowledges that the bombings alone cannot solve the problem. Since we are not in favour of sending in foreign troops, Danish NATO troops, there is only one solution to that problem, and that is to ensure that the Kurds have the necessary tools, and we know they are able to handle them responsibly so that they can carry out that task themselves. In any case, yes, thank you! ) the very best in such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162837	Thank you. The last brief remarks are from Mr. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162841	The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten wants to create jobs in the private sector, and the rapporteur highlighted before energy renovation as an example of something that could create private jobs and businesses. Does Enhedslisten have any other suggestions on how to create jobs in the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009162907	Yes, we can take on a major task, which we have also contributed to, namely the so-called train fund, and the expansion of public transport is also a very good offer. There is the building of non-profit housing, there is a great need for cheap housing which ordinary people with low incomes can pay for. This is urgently needed, a very important task which would create jobs in the private sector and there is the expansion of the whole energy network, so that it will be the renewable energy that will be at the top of the list, which we are actually included in some agreements on, I believe, the energy agreement. So there are plenty of examples, and we are glad to see that we are not the only party in the Folketing that is in favour of it. We are also happy to cooperate with civil parties to create jobs in the private sector. What is our great concern is that insufficient attention is being paid to the fact that too much emphasis is being placed on the Turkish faith that, as long as we give tax relief to large companies, we will get employment going.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163011	Sir. Finn Thranum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163012	But would it not be a win-win situation to lighten the burden on companies and thus give them the opportunity to create growth and create jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163023-2	Yeah, if that's what worked, but it's not working. The situation is, of course, that all these crisis packages, all these tax cuts, all these growth packages, have not created the growth in employment that is needed. Employment is still at the same level as it did in 2009; we are still missing somewhere between 120,000 and 140,000 jobs in order to reach the number of jobs and employment that existed before the crisis got through. That policy does not work; on the contrary, we have seen that there is an historic saving surplus for large companies. They put all the money in the money tank and hand out a little more in profits. This is the result of the employment policy or the so-called employment policy which has been pursued for many years in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163122	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And then it's sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163145	3 years without growth, 3 years of standstill, 3 wasted years there is a need for something new that is needed something else that is needed for growth and jobs. First of all, we need politicians who are on the side of the citizens rather than sticking to the system. We need to get away from over-regulation, we need to get away from paper movers, we need to get away from money waste in the public sector. We need a society where schools focus on children's learning; where the police take it seriously when you have had a break-in in your home; where the old people are treated like people and not as expenses. We must have a society where we allow citizens and where we do not drown in rules. As Professor Verner C. Petersen wrote in the book "Wild roads in the welfare state " some years ago: We end up deaf and dull by regulation, by security and information. As in a Kafka system, it has become more important to have rules than to think about. So bureaucracy is more important than thinking about people. It provides worse service, it leads to worse working conditions for public employees. It sucks energy out of people into the system. That's not good enough. Actually, I think we can do better. We need a policy that is on the side of the weakest. It's unbearable when children are abandoned by the system. It is unbearable when drug addicts are perceived as criminals instead of addicted to help. It is unbearable when people with disabilities fall victim to rule microscopes and do not get the help they need. It is unbearable when sick people do not receive the treatment they need. We shouldn't put up with that. We're not gonna stand for that. The Liberal Alliance has a clear ambition to be the lawyer of the weakest in parliament. We have to end them with a check-and-shut up and stay away-approach to social policy. Instead, we must pursue a social policy that includes people in the community. There are plenty of people who are in what is called the outside cabinet in Sweden; we need to get them into the community with the rest of us. We must pursue a policy that offers opportunities, self-esteem and self-respect. In today's Denmark, we do the opposite. Denmark needs politicians who value business. The companies are the building blocks in Danish economy and in Denmark's growth potential. That is why we propose from the Liberal Alliance that we want significantly lower corporation tax, significantly lower tax on work both at the top and at the bottom. And we have the very firm principle that no one should pay to others before they can support themselves and therefore they must be allowed to earn DKK 7,000 before tax father visits. We are also proposing a reduction in Europe's highest energy prices. Of course, everything is not about taxes, but lower taxes are absolutely, absolutely essential for better competitiveness and better growth opportunities. In fact, the Folketing should adopt a bill that the Finance Act should be put together every year so that we get at least 3% growth so that Denmark can move forward. And I am not thinking of imaginative estimates of the current government, but of a solid financial law that creates real growth and real opportunities, and not only on paper, when you adopt the Finance Act, but also in the real world. For growth offers opportunities. Growth offers opportunities for companies to do better. Growth offers opportunities for more people to get a job. Growth offers opportunities for the individual family. And growth offers opportunities for us to afford to do something for the sick, the old and the really unemployed who need our help. Overall, we in the Liberal Alliance want only one thing in the short term. We want a parliamentary election. We have wanted that for three years, and we have been pressing, we have been begging, we have been haunting the Prime Minister to print it. And today we are, where it is at least the last opening debate, if not during this government, I hope, seven-nine-three-rights, then at least during this parliamentary term. As soon as we get the choice where the Danes can change the majority of the Folketing, so that you can implement a policy that is on the side of the citizens; implement a policy that takes care of the weakest; implement a policy where you focus on business getting better conditions; so that Denmark can become a country where the most skilled young people in the world want to move to; so that Denmark can become a country where new companies are shooting up like paddehats; so that Denmark can become a country where we look up to the diligent and always remember the one who needs help. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. The welfare state's proselytes have put themselves heavily on the skilled, have failed the weakest and have forgotten how to create the conditions for prosperity and jobs. Only income from transfers can be discussed to a disadvantage while the economy has stalled. In the last parliamentary term, it was the post-retirement wage that had been seen as the great animal in the revelation; without it Denmark would go down Pomerania to. And now the extreme left, plus a few consorts, has looked out for the daily allowance as what needs to be done about; otherwise everything goes completely to the Pomerania. That's not true. It is manipulation of the population and it is talking about something other than what matters if ordinary people are to have more money in their hands, better treatment in hospitals, better conditions for their old mother at the nursing home, a better school, a police who arrives on time and must have the opportunity to get a job if you do not have it. We can do it far, far better. The Liberal Alliance will contribute to that. We doubt that it comes before elections, and I really think most people both in the population and in here know that very well. So let us have that choice and move on so that Denmark can become a pioneer country that people will see enviably.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163918	There are a large number of brief comments. First, sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009163923	Thank you for that, President. It has to be said so much that listening to the speech of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur really gets the impression that the rapporteur thinks something different is needed. He says that our welfare society makes us both deaf and dull. There are many percentages mentioned in this debate, but the key issue is where we believe the welfare society should go. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with what must be understood as the financial donor or spiritual leader of the Liberal Alliance, namely Lars Seir Christensen, who has said at one point that he sincerely believes that in 25 to 30 years' time, perhaps even before, the Danish model will have fallen, and we will live in a harsh socialist dictatorship. At worst, people who I myself would probably have lost everything would have been killed. Not by Islamists, but by panic socialists who see the world collapse around them without understanding why it happens. That's said, not under this government, but under the previous government. Does the rapporteur share this view of the Danish welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164028	I am, of course, an optimistic soul and may not look at it as dystopically as it is said in the quotation, but I share the concern that Danish society will collapse if we do not make necessary reforms in time. This government has done nothing for three years. You have stood still, you have wasted three years, and it will make it harder to do what is necessary when we get there. But we get there, no matter whether the Socialists will hold to both eyes and ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164111	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164112	Thank you for that, President. It is of course interesting to hear that you have spiritual leaders in your party who mean this kind of thing about our welfare society and that, in fact, the Liberal Alliance agrees, perhaps with some nuances, with the person concerned, for the Liberal Alliance's Mr. Anders Samuelsen has said that you are ready to enter a government. Let us then try to go another way to find out how great the differences are basically in the so-called blue alliance. If you look at how much money the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance will spend on our welfare in 4-5 years, i.e. by 2020, there are nearly 70 billion. kr. • close to 70 billion. kr. in a difference per year. That's pretty much 80%. of the cost of our health care. Could we have just half of the savings that the Liberal Alliance considers necessary in order to get into a situation where we can therefore have such a severe reduction in our basic welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164221	It was nice to have a little concrete in the end. I believe that the first half of the question is precisely why the letter of the Week A4 could recently have a study that said that the Danes have less respect for politicians. I think that each of us should put forward our own policy. Then we give the Danes the opportunity to vote instead of all those perfidities without content. Then we are asked how we are going to finance our proposal, and we have always been very open about this in the Liberal Alliance. We have said that we will have 11⁄2% improvement in productivity in the public sector per year in addition to the zero growth proposed by the Left. We have said that we would like to have a higher retirement age and to abolish the early retirement age altogether. We have said that we would like to see an inflation adjustment of transfer incomes by 2020. We want less business support. We have many more good proposals, but I can see that there is a party colleague from the Socialists who has to ask, and then I will be happy to continue with the list I promise not to start over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164329	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164333	Thank you for that and thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. In fact, I would say that the Liberal Alliance says very, very often openly and honestly what they mean. I think you should skip the flag for that. It may also be that this was the reason why the President of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, in Berlingske, on 14 June 2013, said that the Left and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and now I quote "Democracy will come to an end if they do not present an overall political plan before the next elections." Is it true that this is the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164412	It is our view that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has presented five points of reference to which we can relate and to which we can see ourselves in large parts, and that the bourgeois parties are more in agreement with each other than the government and its so-called parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164435	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164437	Now I'm getting a little confused. I have heard a lot of political statements, a lot of concrete things on the part of the Liberal Alliance. Am I supposed to understand that the five point marks are enough for the Liberal Alliance that it is a global economic plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164456	It is certainly far, far better than what we see from the government, which has no answers at all. We present our policy, we see who we can work with. When we hear that the Left is willing to stop the growth of public spending, we are happy. When we hear that the Left is going to do something about crime, we're happy. When we hear that the Left will do something to make it pay to work, we are really happy. We must understand, as the rapporteur knows, that we have now had three years where nothing has happened, and now it seems that there is a possibility that we can move Denmark to something better after the elections, and then it is not exactly whether it is called a plan or it is called target lines or pointer marks or what it is called to decide. What is interesting is that we get the opportunity to make Denmark a country that people look at with envy and dream of being a part of. We look forward to helping to achieve this if there is a bourgeois majority after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164602	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164604	First of all, thank you to Mr. Ammitzbøll for a rhetorically good speech. We're circling this economic plan from the blue block, which I understand the Liberal Alliance is supporting. I would just like to confirm there whether the Liberal Alliance supports a comprehensive economic plan from the four parties in the blue bloc.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164633	That could be exciting. I think, first of all, that what is important is that we agree that S and R have wasted their time for 3 years. We want Denmark to go somewhere else and better. I can understand the questions not just to me from both Mr. Andreas Steenberg and some earlier that it is actually the case that the red block expects the blue block to win the election. Because you're more concerned about how the four blue parties are doing together, and we saw that at the National Meeting of the Left they're feeling really well together than about how the dysfunctional family, which sits in the management of the four red parties, has it together. You don't deliver any answers, but you have government power. In fact, I think that when you have so few answers and 60 billion. kr. In deficit, one had to print elections. I think the Danes deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164737	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164740	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is a good rhetorical man, but I did not get an answer to the question, and that was: will the rapporteur confirm that the Liberal Alliance wants a comprehensive economic plan for the blue block and can we perhaps get the veil lifted as to when the blue block will come up with such a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164759	I wanted to, as Mr. Anders Samuelsen was also quoted for, certainly thought that it was nice and exciting if we could make it. But as it is, we can agree that we want something different and better than what is happening now. We can agree that this government has ensured that zero growth is maintained at best. This government is delivering a finance bill with a huge deficit. This government has failed the Danes. Then have... well, sorry). What if those 30 seconds still apply? Well, fair enough. Then we have four bourgeois parties that stand together to want a better Denmark. We are united in a foreign policy which is about the fact that those who want to contribute can be part of Denmark, and those who just want to come and practice crime or suck on the lid must stay away. It is surely more community than can be said to have in that area in the red block when we hear what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has said about the government's latest proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164909	Sir. Jonas Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164914	Well, the joy expressed by the rapporteur on the Blue Alliance gives the impression that we are totally happy with the policy to be pursued. But I would really like to dig a little into economic policy, because if it is to be said that it is going to be in the blue block, if only in every direction, not least in relation to how much money is going to be spent on the public sector in the coming years. That is why I would just like to hear the Liberal Alliance: can the Liberal Alliance support a government or perhaps even form part of a government where public sector spending is increasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009164951	We have no intention of doing so. I am incredibly pleased that it is precisely a representative of the SF who comes up with tips for government negotiations. You have some experience with that. And that is why I would like to ask you back, so my question to Mr. Jonas Dahl is: Is it wise to make ultimate demands in government negotiations? Is that wise, for example? to say that two parties have a particular policy on taxation and foreigners, on which the third will have no influence? Is it wise to negotiate a government? I do not think it is, but I am happy to listen out of experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165034	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165036	Well, I think it would be obvious if Simon Emil Ammitzbøll would ask when there was a chance. Now it is I who is asking the questions, and perhaps one should wish that the rapporteur could also just say what to do and at least give the hint of an answer, but it is the same creep we have heard from the blue parties; you knock out your arms and say: 'Oh, you don't know that; you have a direction, but you don't really know what direction it is, whether it is up or down, you don't really dare answer it, because as long as you win the power of government, it is going well. That is what we hear from the blue block a lot today, so I would really like to get an answer to this: is it the case that if the Danish People's Party succeeds in pushing the Left to increase growth in the public sector, then the Liberal Alliance can support Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister? Can we get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165123	Now I really appreciate both of you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and other good colleagues from the Danish People's Party, but it is clear that they will do what they can to implement what they are going to vote on, and we will do what we can to push it in the direction of the Liberal Alliance and sometimes we agree with the Danish People's Party, and sometimes we disagree. After all, there is no difference, and that is what is false and the politician-led issue; the red block consists of four parties, and the blue block consists of four parties. However, we have the advantage that in the blue block we know what growth in public spending the various parties want, and we have Mr. Finn Sørensen's word that Enhedslisten doesn't even know it himself. They don't know it, and if they don't know it, sir. Jonas Dahl doesn't know, so I don't know, and then the Prime Minister doesn't know, and I don't actually envy the Prime Minister. In fact, I think that the Enhedslisten owes it to the Prime Minister they have put in the chair to tell us what kind of policy they are actually in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165230	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165235	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance, together with the Danish People's Party, has also thrown around with development aid today. It is a little unclear whether they are going to save it or what they are going to say, at least, that the refugees must turn around at the airport, and then they must be sent down to a camp somewhere in a country where there are already millions of refugees, if they are coming from Syria and Iraq. Does it matter whether Jordan, Lebanon and other neighbouring countries in the Middle East have received millions of refugees and still have them, and that we should then require them to take even more with the things that this entails? Is it because it is unpleasant for the Liberal Alliance to live a life in Denmark where the neighbour is from another country, perhaps a refugee of war? Or what is it that makes you report so cynically to people who are in the worst crisis of their lives ever?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165329	The issue is somewhat different, but I would like to say that we want neighbours who look different. You can both look like Mr. Christian Juhl or myself, and they may also be from other parts of the world. It's just great. We welcome people in Denmark if they want to contribute to Danish society, but if they want to suck on the lab or commit crime, we say no. That is our immigration policy, and I think, Mr President. Christian Juhl mixes it up a little. With regard to our refugee policy, we believe that the concept of refugees has come to a completely different place than it was intended. It was thought that it was people who were actually personally persecuted who should have asylum in Denmark. We still want to give that. But now that we can help far more by helping in the neighbourhood, I actually think the cynical thing would be to bring people up here, a few fewer, and help them instead of helping more people in one of the neighbouring countries to Syria. And it may well be that people say: Do not Jordan and Lebanon have enough? Perhaps that is right, but then we could look at a country such as Turkey. It is not the case that we subscribe to certain neighbouring countries. However, our starting point is that it is better to help in the neighbourhood because you can help more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165446	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165449	Thank you. Now it may be that the surrounding area is so strained that it is a slightly more remote area, for example. Europe, which, with its great wealth, should perhaps contribute a few seats, with a house, with an apartment, with what we have to offer when it looks so serious. I don't quite get it. Thinks sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll not that a fugitive of war is just as eager to go somewhere, come to another country where you can work and contribute? Is it pr. What is the Commission's position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer? Is it the case that war refugees are not perceived as being personally persecuted? Well, it's with life as an effort that you stay in Kobani at the moment. After all, it is with life as an effort that you are in many places in Iraq at the moment. It is written in its press release that if it were a writer or a dissident, then we could accept one of them. I think it is an exclusive, cynical and very remote world view of how to solve problems if the richest country in the world should not take care of perhaps just 10,000 or 20,000 of those who are really persecuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165603	I very much agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that we, as one of the richest countries in the world, should help to alleviate the refugee disaster in Syria. That is, in fact, what we have proposed. But instead of helping 10,000 to 20,000, as Mr. Christian Juhl talks about, so we would like to help many, many more, and we can if we help in neighbouring countries instead of helping in Denmark. I think it is a pity that we should leave some people behind because we would rather help here than help in a neighbouring country. And we do it in such a way that we will make fine places with schools and leisure activities and all that. You can actually do that, even beyond Denmark's borders. And at the same time you will have the opportunity to be there together as a family, contrary to what is the case with the proposal which I understand the government, as Mr. Christian Juhl supports, stated the other day, namely that then you have to wait to bring the family with you. We want to bring families together instead of tearing them apart. Actually, I think that's more humane if I'm to be honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165712	Mrs Trine Bramsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165715	This weekend I could see on TV that the Liberal Alliance likes to sit in a circle with both the Left, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party. I would like to know: is there any agreement between the four parties on introducing minus growth and removing top tax? Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that there's agreement across this circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165746	I don't think so. Is it Mrs Trine Bramsen's view that there is agreement in the red circle to nationalise large parts of the private sector that Enhedslisten wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165800	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165803	Now it wasn't red politics I asked about, but blue politics and the blue circle, and so I ask quite quietly one more time: is there agreement between the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives to pursue a negative growth policy and remove the top tax yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165826	I believe that this is once again one of the questions that favours politicians, because the question was asked before, and I said no. The answer was no, and it is quite simple, and it will be, even if all the questions from the red bloc ask the same question. Then I promise I'll answer the same question. That's the kind of thing we use over in the blue block. The second point is that, with the permission of the President, I would like to refer a little to the Rules of Procedure. So it does not say that questions should only be asked in one direction. It is a comment, it is a brief comment, and that is to say, I replied to the question, Mrs Trine Bramsen then asked a new question, because I am interested to hear how things are going over with the Reds. Well, it's kind of our business. It is of course you who are in power, and therefore it is a little worrying that the parties do not agree on much in the red block.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165915	Sir. Rasmus Prehn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009165921	It has been an interesting thing to follow the personal development that has been with the Liberal Alliance's Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll here in the last half hour. It is as if the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur started out as the fresh clerk from miracle prices, where everything could be done at half the price, to be a bit more bitter and defensive defense attorney, who so starts to vomit when critical issues arise. Is the situation the fact that in the course of the afternoon, with the questions that have come to light, the Liberal Alliance's Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that these things that you have reported out, that you can handle everything at half the price, that you can cut well in welfare, may not be so realistic anyway, and that it may not be so easy to get through in the blue block anyway, when there is actually a gap between the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance of 70 billion. kr.? From standing by and promising that it was all possible, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll to say: Well, it's probably not wise to turn out too hard. Is the various rapporteurs of the Liberal Alliance through the ages, including: Mr. Anders Samuelsen, who writes here on 27 July about a civil government basis, that we should have a smaller public sector, simply went too far? Have they been wrong about what can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170043-2	The answer to all the questions is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170048	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170050	Now, Mr. Liberal Alliance began. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll himself to refer to the Rules of Procedure and everything else, and what gives politicians etc. After all, we are supposed to have a dialogue here in order to become wiser. And when, in fact, there is such an obvious development from claiming that everything can be done, we can have a much smaller public sector without having any significant consequences, so to speak, that it would probably not be wise if it were to be reported too hard, we should also be able to agree, then you have a problem of explanation, but you do not have a problem of explanation, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170124	The answer again is no, but this time I would like to clarify it a little. Well, when I went from being in a really good mood first and then to maybe becoming a little more irritable later, it was because I suddenly had to relate to that sniper fucking reality that red block like defines in here in the Folketing. It doesn't make me happy. That doesn't make me happy. But it makes me happy to think of the opportunities that Denmark and the Danes have if they remember to vote correctly in the parliamentary elections that I beg the Prime Minister to print as soon as possible. It makes me really happy. What if we can have a society that people want to move to a society where you have the opportunity to flourish if you are skilled and industrious. What if we can have a society where we actually take care of the weakest rather than forget them in all the middle-class discussion about how we can think if people with disabilities could feel a little better? What if people who are sick could feel a little better? Imagine if the drug addicts could feel a little better and not be the victims of snipers. It makes me happy to think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170233	Mrs Ida Auken for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170235	Is it ambitious enough that the President of the Left will not present a concrete economic plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170245	After all, I am nearsighted, and I start by admitting that, so I have not just seen whether Mrs Ida Auken has been here all the time while I have been here. Because I have been given the question earlier, and it is not to be ridiculous, but I have, and that is why I have said earlier and it would like to repeat that we thought what the President of the Left presented at the national meeting of the Left was fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170306	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170306-2	I understand from the Liberal Alliance that you want to give the honest answer that you want to be the party that says things as they are. Then we must be able to get an honest answer today. Are we prepared to relax the demand to lower the top tax or remove the top tax altogether in order to support a left-wing government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170325	The Liberal Alliance goes to the polls on four issues: lower taxes, more growth, more freedom and a more efficient public sector. We have the clear conviction and the clear view that there will be Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen to bid on all four points. I guess, as sir. Rasmus Prehn evidently believed that we will have the whole programme of principles of the Liberal Alliance implemented, no matter what number of seats we might otherwise have? No. I know that S and SF thought that they had their whole plan implemented, regardless of whether to count the Radicals and Enhedslisten. It wasn't something you took so hard, but we're not like that. We say honestly to the electorate: here is what we are going to vote on; here is the direction we will take; we will make concessions on our priorities, but if it is the whole programme, you will give us 90 mandates before we can deliver it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170424	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170428	Perhaps I will also ask something that we have touched on before. It is well known that the Danish People's Party demands growth in the public sector, and according to the Ministry of Finance, the difference between Liberal Alliance's and Danish People's Party's proposals for the development of public consumption is approx. 80 billion. kr. in 2020. So what I have to ask is how important is the development of public spending for the Liberal Alliance? Will you support a government under which growth is 0.2 or 0.4 per cent??
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170508	Does the questioner honestly think that I would answer that? In other words, our starting point is that we want efficiency improvements in the public sector, productivity improvements, at 1.5%. a year. The more votes the Liberal Alliance gets, the closer we get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170532	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170533	That's pretty clear talk. Then I just have to ask: how will the Liberal Alliance ensure that this policy is implemented when one is clearly leaning on a coalition where the Danish People's Party, which does not want zero growth in the public sector, is included?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170559	That is actually an interesting question. We have studied the participation of other parties in governments and participation as a support party for the government. We are quite impressed by the participation of the Radical Left in governments, both in the 1990s and at present. There we really think they have shown how to influence. We are actually also quite impressed by the Danish People's Party as a support party in the 00s. There they have shown how to influence. Then there may be others who have been less fortunate in their roles, both inside and outside governments, but I think it is the Radicals that we will look to when it comes to being within a government, and the Danish People's Party we will look to when it comes to being outside a government. If you learn from the best, it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170648	Then it is Mrs Camilla Hersom for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170651	Thank you. In 2012, the Liberal Alliance concluded an asylum agreement with the Government and the Enhedslisten. Today, the asylum policy of the Liberal Alliance is to turn refugees at the airport and send them out of Denmark. Which countries should the refugees be sent to?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170715	This is a good question, because it makes it very clear that what we have an agreement with the government is not about the actual asylum policy, but about what conditions there should be in the asylum centres in Denmark while people are there. As far as asylum policy is concerned, it is our view that if there are situations of war, such as wars, there is a risk of war. in Syria, people must be helped in refugee camps in the neighbourhood, that is. e.g. in a neighboring country. Should Denmark simply renounce its responsibility? Of course we shouldn't. We must therefore help finance such camps; we must, of course, take responsibility as one of the richest countries in the world. But I do not understand why the Radical Left would rather help fewer people in Denmark than more people in one of Syria's neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170803	Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170804	After all, Denmark is already providing humanitarian aid to many of the refugee camps in the neighbourhood. However, I understand the proposal that refugees will be turned at airports and sent out of the country. How can we imagine that such an agreement could be reached with the recipient countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170825-2	Sometimes it can be difficult to be a politician from a party which, with an English expression, is the first mover, that is to say, those who come up with the ideas that others then take to heart. We have seen this in a number of other areas. The Socialists suddenly became preoccupied with the fact that it must be worthwhile to work after a long period of indifference; the early retirement could suddenly be removed after the VK government had told us that only one never dreamed of that. And that's just being first mover. We are used to people telling us that this is not a very good idea, and years later they say: we take that idea straight. And when you've taken it, you can't really remember that it was the Liberal Alliance or other first movers who had saved you in the "What's such a thing"?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170916	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009170918	Thank you. I think it is excellent that the Liberal Alliance is also looking at how to restructure asylum policy and help more in the neighbourhoods where the refugees are mostly, and how we can really help more than we can today in the way it is now arranged. However, the reason why I am taking the floor is in fact that I am going to lead the debate on one of the issues that I think is very important, but which we have not had the opportunity to discuss so much, namely the Prime Minister's proposal that there should be a referendum on the legal reservation at the time. I am a little interested in hearing the Liberal Alliance's position on this. As I see it, what the Prime Minister has put himself into can actually make things worse for Denmark. If we now assume that the best thing for Denmark is to have a parallel agreement, so that we can solve the specific problem with Europol, then we can ask ourselves why the other countries should start a debate with Denmark on a parallel agreement, now that the Prime Minister has announced that Denmark will resolve matters in quotation marks in a referendum and a change in the legal reservation. So I'm just gonna ask you about sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll agrees with me that the way the government has dealt with this is a very, very poor way. In any case, that is not in respect of the legal reservation that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171035	At any rate, it is not, and I fully agree that the government has actually failed its responsibility to ensure that Denmark can have a parallel agreement. It seems to me that there is a strategy to make it harder and harder to get a parallel agreement for Denmark, so that we could easily be involved in police cooperation while retaining the legal reservation. That is our position in the Liberal Alliance: that is what we should do. Can you get a parallel agreement? I mean, of course you can. We are fortunate enough to have a border on Europe's most powerful power, Germany, and can we imagine the Germans thinking: Aah, we would like to have a border up to a country which should be such a kind of healer for drug rings and paedophilia groups, and what do I know? No, you can't imagine. So I wonder if the Germans have some interest in Denmark getting such a parallel agreement? I think they have; I just don't think the Germans are taking the initiative. It should have come from the empty chair down here, namely, from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171142	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171151	I usually have very great respect for the Liberal Alliance because it is high to the ceiling and, in fact, many times you add new perspectives to the debate. So thank you for that, even if I agree with you or not. I like the bravery and tension that lie in it. But what I would like to ask Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is: Does the Liberal Alliance want a more equal society or a more unequal society?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171221	Well, great mutual respect. After all, we have a common past, and it can develop in many ways. I hope so, sir. Uffe Elbæk and his party, the Alternative, are allowed to stand for election and would like to invite everyone, including those who are watching, to go to the Alternative's website and sign, so that the Alternative is allowed to take part in the parliamentary elections. That is the most democratic thing I believe. In relation to equality and inequality, it is very important for me to say that it is absolutely fundamental for us that there should be equality before the law. But when you ask about equality and inequality, it is typically such economic equality and inequality that you ask about. And there it is just our view that Denmark as one of the world's most equal countries could give up a little on equality in return for giving something on prosperity so that we could get more people out of the outside and into the community with a job. We have an ambition to do so, and I really hope that I will share it with Mr. Uffe Elbæk, although it may result in a little greater inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171322	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171322-2	The reason why I am asking the question is that if you look at the countries that are actually the richest countries in the world, you see that they are also the countries that are the most equal. In other words, we see the Scandinavian welfare states as peaks over and over again, both in terms of the economy, but also in terms of quality of life and, incidentally, also in terms of social mobility. So what are the views of the Liberal Alliance about the fact that the countries that are the most equal are also the countries that are the richest?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171357	I think that Denmark's biggest problem is that we have a model that has been able to do something but cannot do so much more. We have a model that has adapted to a non-globalised world, and now we are just living in a world where everything is much closer to where everything is much more connected and where everything is moving faster and the changes are also moving faster. We have a stagnating social model. That is certainly why the current government, of which the questioner himself has been a part, has not been able to deliver growth for three years. I guess that's why. We will then make sure that Denmark instead of hoping to be hijacked on the United States and Germany, or whatever I know, does something for itself at some point. And we do this by improving competitiveness; by ensuring that more people enter the labour market, into the communities; by making sure that we ourselves change our fate. The history of Denmark is full of examples that the Danes have changed the fate of the Danish people. We did that after 1864, which is so topical these days, and we can do it again. We believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171505	Sir. Jeppe Bruus for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171507	Thank you. Now the Left has played out to some of the major export markets we are aiming for China, Brazil, India, that it is apparently finer to be Canadian or American than it is to be Chinese, Brazilian or Indian. I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance: how does the Liberal Alliance feel about that point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171533	The starting point is known: we are not in favour of the Bruneilist. Our starting point is that people who can contribute and who can get a job in Denmark when they have a contract of employment should be welcome in Denmark. Then they will only have to pay taxes for five years before they can access social and health services. But if they pay taxes for five years, they may be allowed to obtain a permanent residence permit. This is the policy of the Liberal Alliance. That is a fair foreign policy, we think. One could quote a former Prime Minister as saying that it is both firm and fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171610	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171610-2	When I asked the question, it is, of course, a little concerned about what it can have to do with Danish exports and thus also, ultimately, Danish jobs, when it is the type of reports that come from so-called liberal, bourgeois parties. That is why it may also have the natural consequence that it is something that the Liberal Alliance will support if the Left comes to power.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171635	In fact, I think it has been an incredibly touching experience to be the rapporteur here today. There is, of course, extreme concern to me about whether the Liberal Alliance will have a lot of concessions after an election. Sometimes, as in this case, it seems like you're hoping. Sometimes it seems like you're afraid of it. So as to the brazenness of replying, I would like to say that I am responding to the question. I am interested in what I think is a good question, I would like to answer it. And I will answer what I have answered to similar questions: the more mandates the Liberal Alliance receives in the parliamentary elections, the more likely we are to get our way. If sir... Jeppe Bruus and consorts will tell the voters that I can stand here and say that no matter how the elections may go, we are implementing the policy of the Liberal Alliance from wall to wall, and that is exactly what I have said a few times in the past, which causes politicians to rise with the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171740	Mrs Julie Skovsby for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171742	Thank you. All hands must be used to all allowances in addition to the cash benefits, i.e.: housing support and individual allowances such as: Children's allowance and free space in day care should be maintained at the current level. Can the rapporteur thus confirm that the Liberal Alliance will not introduce a so-called modern cash aid ceiling, as proposed by the Liberal Group, which sets a ceiling on the total amount of public benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171820	I can confirm that our cash aid action is as it is, and that we are, in fact, prepared to introduce a modern cash aid ceiling to some extent. What it should be like now is because the most important thing for us, and I think that is really up to date on this issue, and thanks for that, is not that it is precisely our way of adjusting the gears that are being implemented. That's not the most important thing. The most important thing is to achieve the goal that it pays off to work. That there are others who also have good ideas about how to do it, we just think it's great, because it makes it even easier to make an agreement after the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171859	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171900	After all, the most important thing must be to clarify the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and I ask again: is it true that the Liberal Alliance will not introduce a so-called modern cash aid ceiling so that there is a ceiling on the total amount of benefits that can be obtained from the public sector? Or are you in favour of a so-called modern cash aid ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009171925-2	I hold on no matter how long we stick to the principle of asking the same question, you get the same answer. And my answer was: yes, we stand at the goal of the Liberal Alliance's own policy. If there are others who have good proposals on how to achieve the same objective as we would like, then we would really like to talk to those parties about making a common solution. And our objective in this case is to be able to pay off working. I am incredibly happy to say: we are not religious, in that it should be exactly as we have proposed. It is the purpose that is interesting; it is not the technique. Perhaps that is what has gone wrong in the red block, because everyone has sat down and said that it must be their technical solution that needs to go through.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172013	The last brief remark in this round is from Mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172014	Thank you. According to Jyllands-Posten from 1 October, the Liberal Alliance believes that user charges of DKK 130 should be introduced. on a doctor's visit. Then the question is whether the Liberal Alliance is prepared to relax that requirement in order to reach agreement in the blue block. It's a fairly simple question, so I'm actually asking for an answer like yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172044-2	Well, as with so many other things, we have to look at whether that is what is needed, but I would like to stress: we do not want user charges at all unless we get a tax credit that corresponds to the user payment I can guarantee that. We are not going to demand increased user charges anywhere against Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, unless it is matched by a tax relief of the same magnitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172110	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172111	I must say that for me it was creepy reading to read the article in Jyllands-Posten on October 1. That's 130 kroner. It's gonna cost you for a doctor's visit. And then the Liberal Alliance also opens up to introduce user charges to the guard doctor in the emergency room and to the food you receive as a patient by hospitalization. So it is that the question must be: in what other areas can the people out there expect user fees if the Liberal Alliance gets power as they have watched?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172147	According to my immediate memory, we have not proposed any other areas. On the other hand, it has to be said that there is a slight difference between what you think is creepy reading. Well, this is a little cheaper for the day things is the same rate, and for the evening things it is lower than in Norway; the terrible Norwegian society that exists to the north. Another thing is, since we are now at user charges, that what I find creepy is that the Socialists are apparently not going to do anything for some of the patients who suffer most tooth damage. Today, some of them actually need to get more We do not think they should get the map out, it seems to the Socialists. We think the flu guy should get the dance chart out. And that's how you look at things so differently. We just think that it should not be the case for those who today are being dragged through a nasty bureaucracy that some of them even get no. We cannot be aware of this if we call it a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172244	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lene Espersen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009172323	In many ways things are going well in Denmark. The autumn sun has sprung up this afternoon, and contrary to what we have been promised, the socialist re-enhancing of our society will probably not come during this parliamentary term. Millionaire taxes, payments, women's quotas and earmarked maternity leave for men now lie safely in the drawer again and collect dust for the next time the Social Democrats come into opposition. I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his opening speech. And I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for finally putting forward a vote on the reservation of law. Better late than never. In fact, I would also like to commend the Prime Minister for finally going further than announcing that there will be a good solution tomorrow. Now the answer is that there will be a good solution after a choice. It has to be said that the Prime Minister is making great efforts to show that the government is thinking long-term. Whether it is wise to leave Denmark out of the fight against trafficking in human beings and outside the fight against drug crime and child pornography is another matter. I don't think so. The criminals don't wait until after the elections. The government has largely followed the path of reform that we set in the previous government, the VK government. Of course, it is not reforms that match those we have carried out. We secured financial sustainability for just under 50 billion. kr. Government reforms have improved our common box by just under 5 billion. kr. The Prime Minister said in his speech that Denmark was hit by the crisis because the VK did not act in the 00s. Dear Prime Minister: In Luke's Gospel, Jesus says: "Why do you see the splinter in your brother's eye, but do not notice the beam in your own eye? ▪ According to the Prime Minister's own Finance Minister, the VK government provided 90 cents and the Prime Minister's own government just 10 cents for each crown of reform that goes to the sustainability of our welfare society. The Prime Minister's speech would be more credible if she accepted the results of others. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister's Government on the excellent reforms we have made together. They have drawn Denmark in a slightly better direction. We peak year after year the list of the world's happiest people, and the major economic crises have not hit Denmark as hard as many other countries, but we are still far from our goal. More than 800,000 people of working age live today from public support and, in concrete terms, 260,000 fewer Danes would live on public transfers if the Danes were as self-supporting as the Swedes. Whether the left doesn't want to hear about it, the problem is due, among other things, to. the relatively high transfer income we have here at home. Today it is the case that a typical Danish family with two children, where both parents are on cash benefits, gets less money between their hands if one takes a low-wage job rather than being on cash benefits. And that is a development that we must have reversed. Children need to experience a normal everyday life with parents who work to support themselves and theirs. This is also evident from the fact that the risk that children themselves will end up on public support is particularly high if parents have been outside the labour market. When you compare it with the fact that one in three people on the labour market will only accept a job if the prize is more than DKr 3 000. a month, it is clear that we are facing a problem. That is why we want to reinstate the ceiling on cash aid so that there is a reasonable limit on the overall amount of public funds available. We have also suggested in the past that couples, where both are on cash benefits, should receive a reduction in their benefits in exactly the same way as we do for early retirement and old-age pensioners, because there are two to pay. Finally, we believe that there is a need for a modern benefit system; a system that is not more expensive than what we have today, but a system that ensures much more that the unemployed are motivated to look for jobs in the past and, at the same time, provides people with decent insurance through unemployment. In German it is a little strange that the only thing the public debate and much of today's debate have been about is the 40,000 Danes who have exhausted their entitlement to cash benefits. Of these, 8,000 people have entered work and 4,600 have entered training and the majority of the others are on other benefits. Why are we not talking about more than 100,000 foreigners today working in our agriculture, restaurants, hotels and many other places, while at the same time having a European record of benefits and pensions for people on public support? So it does not take long-haired Commission work to see the possibilities for us to do a little better. Why are we not talking about the need to ensure growth and development throughout Denmark? I think it is good that the Prime Minister is pleased that there is growth in the rest of the Kingdom community. In fact, it is also difficult to be opposed, even though I have to say that the growth that the Faroe Islands received as a result of overfishing of mackerel and theft of Danish fishermen's herring was not a growth that we applauded, and for us it was also quite incomprehensible that several parties in the Folketing failed Danish fishing in favour of Faroese. But it remains to be seen that we need growth in Denmark, the whole of Denmark, and that is why we want to maintain and strengthen the housing job scheme. The craftsman's allowance here ensured Danish families a direct helping hand in an otherwise busy everyday life and at the same time strengthened the order books of the craft masters. We would also like to start over with the Planning Act and to leave it much more to the municipalities to assess how to develop a sustainable and efficient local business community. We would like to remove a number of crazy Danish taxes on a number of groceries that make shopping more expensive for the Danes and everyday life difficult for the companies. Finally, on next year's financial law, we would like to give priority to 2 billion. kr. to increase the employment allowance, while at the same time we also want the upper marginal tax to fall to 50%. This gives all Danes an extra incentive to make an extra effort, and at the same time the Conservative People's Party believes that we politicians can see ourselves a little better in the mirror in the morning, because we let the Danes keep more of the money they earn in their own pockets. I think there are many Danes in general who do not feel that their everyday life and daily life are seriously taken seriously here at Christiansborg. This is true, for example. in relation to the many break-ins that daily hit Danish homes. Although it is more than 40,000 break-ins in a single year and we are actually currently in a dubious couple race with Greece about first place • it doesn't seem like something that the government takes very seriously. In the time of the VK government, we carried out a massive burglary package, and it is now beginning to show its effect. After that, however, there has been little progress in this area. Everyone who has experienced a break-in knows the unpleasant feeling that there has been an intruder in your home. I just want to say that the consequences of being burgled into your own home are far more serious than just losing your possessions. You lose your security as well as your confidence in the outside world. This is not reflected in the legislation at all today. Today burglary is typically punishable by conditional or unconditional imprisonment for up to 30 days. We believe that the penalty for breaking and entering should basically reflect the human abuse and not just the loss of property. That is why we have proposed the creation of a special burglary clause which ensures that burglary at least triggers an unconditional prison sentence. We also want the penalty debate to be restricted and, finally, we want foreign criminals to serve in their country of origin. The limit for sending the criminal aliens home must also be reduced from 6 months to 1 month. Then several of the foreign offenders will return home quickly. We deliver concrete proposals, because we want to make a concrete difference to the Danes, and we want the Danes to feel safe in their own homes. We are very pleased that in his speech the Prime Minister took the volunteers with him. We are very pleased that the government has changed its mind. Two years ago, in the Conservative People's Party, we actually proposed in a resolution that it should be made easier to be voluntary. At that time it was rejected by the government, but we are really glad that other thoughts have now come to mind. Now we just have to hope that there are some people to do something voluntary for. We would like to make it clear here that we are concerned about the increasing opt-out of leisure activities that we see among the schoolchildren of the country because of the long day of school, including the homework cafes. The fact that we see this trend, even before the homework cafes become compulsory, shows what threat the forced cafes may pose to the free association life in Denmark. We fear that the announcements will continue in our leisure and sports clubs if more hours are spent on school children in the afternoon. Don't misunderstand me. We want more professionalism in primary school, and we are actually very happy in all the main areas with the reform we have made together, but it must not be at the expense of association. Thanks also to the Prime Minister for meeting the challenges of upper secondary education. We have made a very good reform of vocational training, and now the trip has come to the high schools. We agree that the number of courses should be reduced. We also agree that increased demands must be made in mathematics and that the professional level must be raised. Unfortunately, however, the government still has to address the issue of upper secondary education. Too many people are simply being let in with too little academic qualifications. According to the Ministry of Education's own figures, for example, if you take young people with a grade of less than 4 from primary school, or who have inadequate grades, at 87 per cent, that is 82 per cent. There are 43 per cent for the few who get their way through the training. of those who are left, who are not going to make any progress in the education system at all. We believe it is to do the young people a disservice to make gymnasium education a universal right. They are experiencing defeats, and it costs society a great deal of money to double-train young people we should have led in the right direction from the start. We want a character requirement of 4, so when you start a pre-school education, there is also a chance that you will complete it. In conclusion, we would like to thank the government for the new and slightly tougher course that has been set against the IS. Imagine if the international community had acted three years ago on the Syria issue. Did I.S. exist at all? But rather change your mind and choose right than stand firm to a wrong policy. We are very pleased that the F-16s are being deployed, but we also hope that the government will consider what we have proposed, namely to extend our presence geographically to Syria and also very much to strengthen our presence, for example. Special Operations Forces. Finally, we are also very pleased that the government has chosen to step up our presence in the Baltic and Eastern European countries as a follow-up to the crisis in Russia. It is always nice for a politician and a party to get its policy through, and I am very pleased that the government has listened to the eight mandates of the Conservative People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173428	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democrats, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173438	Thank you to Mrs Lene Espersen for her speech. We are sorry that we cannot have the opportunity to hear the new President of the Conservative People's Party. But it's happy to experience this comeback to Lene Espersen, which I think is a good and constructive speech, where there is even praise for the government. We welcome this as Social Democrats. Thank you. I am here with a quote from Berlingske on 14 June, where the then chairman of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Lars Barfoed, says the following, and I quote: I think we need some clear and concrete proposals from the Left on what we would like to do, and that is the time to respond to that. Will the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party try to clarify what answers are still lacking from the Left in relation to the policy of the blue bloc? The whole summer has been filled with demands from the Conservative People's Party that the Left should now report clearly. Can we agree on an overall blue policy in this area? What we heard the Conservative rapporteur highlight here was, of course, very clear Conservative issues, but can you say, for example: Get the policy through in relation to the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173554	We must remember that we do not speak directly to each other in this Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur. I'm sorry. Did I say you? )
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173556	Well, I don't really know what to say to sir. Rasmus Prehn, for now I have been sitting here during the debate all day, and it is a little strange that it is the same questions that keep running in circles. I do not know whether you have all been given the same speech paper, but it must be extremely tiring to listen to for those who follow the debate. In the Conservative People's Party, we have presented our policy, and I think the most natural thing is that Mr. Rasmus Prehn asks questions about what the Conservative People's Party wants. As many of my other good colleagues in the blue bloc have said today, and that is the Conservative People's Party, it has been right, very good to follow the President of the Left to present some pointers at the National Assembly of the Left as the goals which the Left is pursuing. I am actually very satisfied with this, and I am absolutely convinced and also know from experience that we can actually agree if the electorate chooses to give us a majority after the next parliamentary elections. So I'm gonna go tell Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn and everyone else who has asked about what Left or DF or LA think: Ask them about it, and then ask me about conservative politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173706	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173708	Thank you to Mrs Lene Espersen. After all, I signed for the very clear presentation of conservative policy. But I also asked about some of what I understand is a core of the Conservative message, namely that we need to get the top tax down. What about the Left's policy in this area? Do you feel confident about the fact that you and the Left can get through the removal of the top treasure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173732	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173734	I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, that what drives the Conservative People's Party is that it must pay off to work. We believe that rights and duties go hand in hand, and we think it is a very big problem that for too many people in this country it is not worth taking a job. That is why the Conservative People's Party wants to reduce the tax on labour by lowering the marginal tax, but in fact also by increasing the employment allowance. I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Prehn and it's a repeat of what we've actually been discussing all day today... that I think it's extremely unwise to stand up on Parliament's platform or in front of the Minister for Finance's door and make ultimate demands. We have clearly said what we think is our priority, and I actually have a lot of faith that the Conservative People's Party will also be listened to, of course, so that the more mandates we have, the better it is. My experience from ten years of intergovernmental cooperation is also that, although many parties say no to conservative policy at first, we have a very, very good tendency to get our policy through anyway. Among other things: the top tax was lowered by 6%. in relation to one of the many tax reforms that we carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173843	The next question is Mr. Jonas Dahl, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173847	The Danish People's Party will have a growth rate of 0.8% in the public sector, Conservative and Left will have zero growth, and Liberal Alliance will have minus growth. According to the Ministry of Finance, the difference between LA and Dansk Folkeparti is approx. 80 billion. kr. It's a lot of money if we look forward to 2020. At first glance, it sounds like there will be some challenges in the blue solitaire, but I would really like to ask just one question in this regard. Will the Conservative People's Party be part of, or support, a bourgeois government with rising public sector spending?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009173930	Well, that's kind of a repeat of Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn's question, just asked in a new way, and the answer is kind of the same. We have put forward our policy, both our 2020 plan and a financial bill. After all, we and the other blue parties are different and have different bids, but I am quite convinced that we will be able to reach each other in a compromise. I would like to say straight away that I have full respect for the fact that we are living in a democracy in which, as I know, there are not really any parties that have 90 seats and then compromises have to be made. That's the way it is, and we're gonna find each other. Then I'll also just quietly remind Mr. Jonas Dahl says that the term of office is a maximum of four years, so perhaps it is also to take a little advance on the pleasures of starting to talk about what is going to happen by 2020. However, there is some time left, and if only the direction is right, we will agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174021	Sir. Jonas Dahl needs to be done. Mrs. Camilla Hersom wasn't on the list, but she'll come next time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174023	It's interesting, I think, for the voters to know. It is good that some conservative proposals have now been made. I would like to sign for that, and others have done so before. However, I think it is fair to ask the question whether, if so, you will support a new bourgeois government, which will have a growth other than zero growth, that is. has an objective of 0.8% growth, such as: is what the Danish People's Party is proposing. I guess it's fair to ask a question about what economic policy is. Because the answer we have received today from all the bourgeois parties is that we do not know. You've set out a direction, and then you cross your fingers, and then you pray to the Lord, and then you'll be okay. Although you have a close relationship with our Lord in the Conservative People's Party, it is reasonable to ask for an answer as to whether you want to support a government that wants more growth than zero growth, which is what the conservatives say you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174121	We will work and fight to ensure that, with the mandates given to the Conservative People's Party after an election, we have maximum influence. But we have no expectation that we will have 90 mandates, and that is why it is clear, of course, that we must compromise with the other parties and their wishes. That's the way it is. So, I think it is quite marvellous that the blue bloc is being called upon to respond to what a government basis should look like and what economic policy it will lead to 2020, when the Socialist rapporteur has not even been able to respond to the cost of an increased number of asylum seekers. Here we are talking 2014 and 2015. So I would say that my experience from 9 years in government, where we also had to go to the Folketing to get a majority for our policy, is that every year you get a budget law and find each other. But you do not get much policy through if you make the ultimate demands, and that is why I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl: No, the Conservative People's Party does not go out and say that if that happens, we will not support a bourgeois government. We will support a bourgeois government which is pursuing a more conservative policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174232	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Camilla Hersom, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174235	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the Conservative People's Party is now satisfied with the five points of the left. But we do not have to go back any further than last year to find a quote from the former Conservative leader, sir. Lars Barfoed, in which he calls on the parties to take concrete policy, because the electorate must know what to expect from a bourgeois government. Is it still conservative policy that voters should know what to expect from a bourgeois government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174312	Thank you. Mrs Lene Espersen, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174315	Yes, I would say that most of the parties who have been on the floor today have also clearly explained that. Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl done, and Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has explained in an excellent and very well thought-out way what the Liberal Alliance wants. And that is what we can demand: that each party dares to put its own policy forward. When the mandates are counted after an election, one has to discuss how much of one's policy can be achieved and what direction it is taking. That is democracy, and that is the conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174351	Thank you. Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174352	But when we continue to take an interest in it, it is because politics is in every direction. And that is why the question is this: can we expect some sort of overall bourgeois plan, at least perhaps from V and K, which has been in government together for ten years? Is there going to be an overall plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174409	Thank you. Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174410	I would like to say to Mrs Camilla Hersom that as a political party the stupidest thing one could do would be to promise one hundred per cent with another party and say: we are superfluous, because we fully agree with another party on our policy. Well, I think that when there is a parliamentary election, every party will have a desire to go to elections on its own policy. And I would like to say to Mrs Camilla Hersom that I would be very surprised if the Social Democracy and the Radical Left were to go to the elections together on exactly the same policy and exactly the same 2020 level without any variation in it. At least I can't recommend it. In fact, I think it is really, really important that the voters can tell the difference between us. And the voters are not stupid; they can tell the difference between the four blue parties, and they look not only at the nuances, but also at the great differences that exist between us. I think that's a strength... not a weakness.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174505	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174509	Thank you. I think it sounds to Mrs Lene Espersen as if she did not like the questions she gets. Now I will try to ask a question which has not been asked yet. It may be that it is at all the questioning she does not like. Mrs Lene Espersen spoke earlier today about the Enhedslisten and the war in Syria and Iraq. I would like to hear what Mrs Lene Espersen thinks about the Kurds' action against ISIL and against Assad in Syria. I would also like to know one more thing: if the battles on land are crucial to defeating ISIL, for example. in the current war in Kobani, so that the city does not fall, how will Mrs Lene Espersen contribute to the city's failure to fall to ISIL? The planes can't do that, everyone said, and the Kurds lack weapons. What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174608	Thank you. Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174609	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I have such a hope that my entire hour will be spent and that there are many who ask me questions. I think that is only a good thing, because it gives me the opportunity to tell you about conservative politics. I just think it's a little funny that it seems like it's the same prefabricated issues that keep going through. To Mr. Christian Juhl's question is that the Conservative People's Party already said three years ago that it was necessary to work on creating a no-fly zone in the northern part of Syria. Imagine if we had been listened to back then. Imagine if we had been listened to! I actually don't think IS had been as strong as they are today. I understand that some of what Turkey has actually been out saying they would like to do if they were to join in and participate more actively. It is a question of security. working to create a no-fly zone in some of the northern part of Syria. I think that's one of the ways to go. Then I would say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I think the Kurds have done great, and I take off my hat for all the brave people both in Syria and Iraq who are fighting the IS. However, it should be borne in mind that we have also tried to maintain that Syria must have an opportunity to move to democracy, and that is why we have also supported the moderate forces. So I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that I think much more is needed if developments are to be reversed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174728	It's again, sir. Christian Juhl, if you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174732	Thank you. I understood this as an undertaking that we would then send them some weapons and that we would hurry because Kobani is currently falling. In addition to that, I read the other day a sentence in Politiken which said that politics is about taking the lead. Is it really a goal to go by the lowest standard? And Mrs Lene Espersen is guessing right, because it was Per Stig Møller and the Minister for Trade and Development who wrote it in a chronicle about development aid. I would like to hear Mrs Lene Espersen's suggestion as to what the consequences will be if the Left and the Danish People's Party get through with their cuts in development aid of 2.6 billion. kr. What consequences will this have for Denmark, for the Third World, for business and for the possibility of stopping some of the large flows of refugees, etc.? I'm very interested to hear that. I assume that Mrs Lene Espersen agrees with her fellow party member, Mr Lene Espersen. Per Stig Møller, who at one time was a minister in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174836	Thank you. Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009174837	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, I can answer that very clearly. The Conservative People's Party's policy is that development aid should be 0.8%. of GDP. It is also included in our draft budget, and that is what we are going to vote on. The other blue parties at least some of them have a different policy, and that is the way it is. The same is true over in the red block. Then I would say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that it is amazing to see Enhedslisten, who for three years has been working against and shouting and screaming that there should not be weapons to the moderate forces in Syria that could both have fought Assad and prevented IS from growing strong at the eleventh hour suddenly coming running and saying that we should throw a lot of weapons into the city that IS is close to taking over. When Enhedslisten's argument has been that you should not send weapons in anywhere where there is a risk that they end up in the wrong hands, then it may not be the wisest position to take in the Enhedslisten. However, I would like to say to the Enhedslisten that I share the concern about the developments in northern Syria. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the solution is as simple as throwing down some weapons. Much more military pressure is needed to resolve that conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175001	Thank you. The next one is sir. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175002	Thank you. In her speech, Mrs Lene Espersen addressed the dispute between the EU and the Faroe Islands about fishing quotas and the sanctions imposed, and the rapporteur said in this context that the government has taken sides in this dispute with Faroese fishermen and against Danish fishermen. Can the rapporteur clarify exactly what she thinks the government has done wrong and can the rapporteur say what she would have done if she had had power as she has heeded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175026	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175027	Well, I can do that, because I have said this many times in the public debate that has been going on. This is something that really means a lot to the delivery of Danish herring and I think it is a huge problem that the Faroe Islands are actually helping to destroy the sustainability label. That is why, of course, I would have liked the government to have said in all other areas that if a country breaks all the rules and overfishes, it must, of course, have a consequence. But precisely in this case, the government actually chose to say: the initiative that came from the European Commission, we do not believe that we can support it, because it would create problems with the Commonwealth. If it had been any other country outside the Commonwealth, I am quite convinced that the government would have said: that is quite unacceptable, of course, and the Commission must take immediate action. I don't like double standards like that. I think it is very wrong that Danish fishing should not be supported in this matter and that sustainability should not be left in the forefront over the fact that there was a conflict between Denmark and the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175143	Thank you. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175145	Now, of course, I very much disagree with that interpretation. I certainly do not think it was the Faroe Islands that overfished; on the contrary, it was the European Union that broke international law by imposing the sanctions, and that is why it was also the European Union that ultimately lost the case. But leave it alone. The rapporteur said before that she does not entirely agree with all the other blue parties on everything. But does the rapporteur think that if there had been a blue government, the policy towards the Faroe Islands in this matter would have been different from that of the current government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175214	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175215	I'd like to say to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, that there is no doubt that the Faroe Islands have overfished. In other words, the Faroe Islands have set their own autonomous quotas, which have no time at all on the ground. So it just doesn't work out trying to stay out of it. On the second question, I would like to say that, unfortunately, I do not believe that the policy had changed, because it was in fact the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party alone that thought it was quite right for the European Commission to stick to the principle of sustainability. After all, the other parties chose to support the government's line. So I do not think that the outcome would have been another, but that is why the Conservative People's Party can afford to have a view about supporting Danish fishing and their struggle for sustainability.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175301	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175307	Thank you. Sir. Peter Christensen from the Left says in Jyllands-Posten on 24 September: "Even the government makes finance law with us, and then there comes a new agreement with the municipalities. Or we'll have a new government, and then we'll make a new deal with the municipalities. I would just like to ask the rapporteur and the Conservatives whether they agree that it is only at will that agreement can be reached with the municipalities after an election, regardless of who might win the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175339	That is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175341	In other words, I think we are starting to go a long way if I am going to comment on what a Member of the Left has said a while ago. But I would like to say that I think it is good practice here that the government naturally seeks parliamentary support when it negotiates both with the municipalities and the regions. And there is clearly my recommendation that a broad majority should be sought. That is what gives the greatest certainty that there is support for it after a choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175413	Thank you. Sir. Troels Ravn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175416	That is interesting because I am asking how the Conservatives would deal with such a situation. And Søren Pape Poulsen says precisely in the Stock Exchange on 17 September that the Conservatives will not reopen an agreement with the municipalities, because that is not possible when budgets are put in place; that is not a proper way of working. That is why I would like to hear again whether the rapporteur would merely confirm that the Conservative People's Party will not help reopen the 2015 agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175451	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175452	Well, of course I fully support my party chairman, and I believe that the agreements reached here in the Danish Parliament must be respected. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn and it is learned from many years of experience that I still think it is very important to make an effort to ensure that there is a broad majority behind many of the agreements we make here in the Danish Parliament. It provides an extra good assurance that there will be no change after a choice. But, of course, I support my chairman when he says so himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175522	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175524	Well, I understand that Mrs Lene Espersen is a little irritated that we are continuing to discuss this overall economic plan from the blue block. But it's because it's sticking in all directions. As recently as today we have heard that the Liberal Alliance thinks that we have not changed anything at all from the government, while the Danish People's Party thinks we have changed too much. After all, the Conservative People's Party is satisfied with the points of reference that the Left has put forward. At the 2013 People's Assembly, the former leader of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Lars Barfoed, the following: Now we cannot just talk about airy objectives; now there must be concrete policy on the table showing what voters can expect from a bourgeois government. I just want to know if the Conservative People's Party has changed its views and now thinks it is okay to go to the polls on some airy objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175622	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175624	I would say that I think we actually have very good cooperation in the blue block. I would also like to say that I am not really annoyed that somebody is asking me questions. I am actually very pleased about that, because it gives me the opportunity to tell you what we Conservatives want. What just puzzles me is that there's so much mess in the red block. And when the government can't even explain what the consequences are, among other things. in the area of asylum, for next year's economic policy, it seems rather strange that we are so concerned about what is happening in 2020 between four civil parties. I would like to say that I think we should actually praise the blue parties for having made a joint proposal for adoption which very clearly sets out some points of reference for what we would like to work for. The four party chairmen have also made one, I think, very good and big speech about what we can do to combat juvenile delinquency. Fortunately, it is too low, but there is a small hard core that needs to be done more. So there is a lot of concrete policy, and it will continue to come, but I would say that what is crucial for the Conservative People's Party is actually that we ourselves have the opportunity to present our policy, and I have done so here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175728	A new round, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175730	I am not really interested in what bourgeois parties would do by 2020. I'm kind of interested in what you might do tomorrow if you got the government. Now we can take out another quote from Mr. Lars Barfoed, who says: It is simply not enough to say that you want to get more people away from transfer income and that you want to create more jobs if you do not at the same time say how you want to do it. You have to be very precise and you cannot settle for very round wordings. Is it still the position of the Conservatives that the Left cannot just settle for round wordings, but that one should be very precise about how to create jobs in Denmark? Is that still your attitude, or have you gone away from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175811	I should just like to say once again that we must not address each other directly; we are speaking in a different way here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175819	I would like to say that I am a little stunned that this debate is continuing. So, has the rapporteur seen our proposal for adoption? Well, there's a stick there, which, among other things, is... It is about our wish that it should pay better to take a job. So we are actually very specific. I don't know what else to ask for. In other words, we are four independent opposition parties working together in a wide range of areas, but I have to say to the radical rapporteur that if you expect the Conservative People's Party to pledge its full political freedom in order to compromise with the other parties now before an election, you have to think again. We would like to have something on our own to go to the polls, and we would like to separate ourselves from the other parties. I guess that's why you're in a political party, or you might as well join one of the other parties. Then I would like to say that I fully agree with what Mr. Lars Barfoed said that it is important to put forward some policy, and we have done so, among other things. Today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009175917	Thank you. I have to postpone the meeting. The meeting will start again today at 8:00 a.m. 19.00, where we shall continue with the brief remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190003	We shall resume the sitting and continue to make brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Lene Espersen. The first person I have on this list is sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190017	Thank you. I just want to ask a very brief question: does the Conservative People's Party want more user charges?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190030	Now I don't know if this is a special area, sir. Jeppe Bruus thinks, but allow me to interpret it in such a way that it is in the field of health, sir. Jeppe Bruus is asking about it. To this I would say that the statements we have had when we have discussed health policy have been that the level of user charges today I think it is about 25 per cent. of health costs, which are currently user-paid, is probably the level at which it should be. What is our concern is that today user charges are very random. You usually say that you can look at people's teeth, what kind of social class they come from. And some of what we would very much like to have a discussion about is, if not something like going to the dentist can get more coverage via the state. We think it is a huge problem that it is so expensive to go to the dentist, and then there are many other things that are completely free. So, within the framework of user charges in health care, I think we should try to see if we cannot create a more socially balanced system in which something like cleaning our teeth becomes part of public health insurance to a greater extent than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190136	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190137	Thank you. When I ask, it's because I had a debate with Mr. Mike Legarth during the Finance Law debate, and I could understand that the Conservatives want an analysis of how to establish more user charges or user charges at all. At the same time, it appeared that no user fee was wanted for medical visits, for example, and then I got a little confused about the previous reports. So does this mean being socially balanced that the Conservatives do not want user fees on medical visits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190215	I want to say, and I have to admit that it may well be that I have not caught what all the Conservatives have said about the matter over time ■ that what I have at least seen in the past we have played out with has been, as it were, that with extremely high user charges already today in our health care, we actually think that it is worth going in and looking at whether the coincidences that have been in the health system should still carry away when people should have their own wallet out of their pocket and when something is free. Well, the discussion is typically about medical visits and dental visits, but it could also be about glasses and hearing aids. There are incredibly many different places where you can say that it is old traditions that have been crucial for something that is absolutely free and something that costs a great deal of money. One of the things we have said is that we think that the dental bill should be better covered. And on the question of where user charges are to be made, I would say that if we reject in advance that this must be in another area, then the Commission has been restricted. For us alone, what is crucial is that it is balanced and, of course, that we also find a system so that the most disadvantaged in this country never get into a situation where they, for example, find themselves. can't afford to go to a doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190323	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190326	One of the things the new Conservative President stressed when he was elected President and political leader was to be very critical of the top tax and that he wanted to lower the top tax. Can Mrs Lene Espersen confirm that if, in my opinion, it is unfortunate that there will be a change of government, then it will be very important for the Conservative People's Party that it will not compromise on the fact that the top tax should be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190404	I'd like to say to Mr. Jesper Petersen, that I am actually very pleased that Mr. Jesper Petersen just added that it would be unfortunate, for it is always something that, after all, we have that disagreement and want each of our heads of government. But I would like to say to Mr. Jesper Petersen, that we have said very clearly that we want the tax to be reduced both by increasing the employment allowance, but also by reducing the marginal tax. But we don't have any ultimate demands. We discussed it earlier today, and I do not know if Jesper Petersen has been here throughout the debate. But it is not the case that, if the voters want a blue government, we go in and say: if we can't get it through and through, then we're just pissed off and walk away. You don't do things like that. Of course, we want to influence things, but we do not have any ultimate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190453	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190454	One has to assume that when it is something the new President chooses to spend his very first speaking time on, it is actually very important for the Conservative People's Party that the top tax will be reduced. My question was: is the Conservative People's Party prepared to compromise on this? And I heard the answer as that it doesn't matter to the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190519	That's no way to interpret it, sir. Jesper Petersen. That, sir. Jesper Petersen asked me if it was an ultimate demand and what we would do if we didn't get our demands through. I don't know what to do. Should we then point to Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister? I don't think so. We probably didn't have a better chance of getting our demands through there. I would say that we clearly want the tax to be reduced to work, and that is because we believe that it is good for the Danish welfare society that more wealth is created, because then the cake will grow. We heard earlier today Enhedslisten say that spring pack 2.0 should be rolled back. It thus increases the sustainability of the Danish economy by 6 billion. kr. I don't know where Enhedslisten would find that money. But what's important to us is I know that Mr. Jesper Petersen isn't from Enhedslisten.It's really valuable, that we think it should be worthwhile to work. Of course, we will go to the negotiations with that, and it will certainly be under a Left Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190613	Next on the list is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190617	The Conservatives have among other things. together with the SF made a very ambitious climate agreement, which I think also the Conservative rapporteur is pleased about, but the two other parties on the right, the Left and the Danish People's Party, have continually expressed different things about this agreement and have in some ways turned their backs on it, I would say. That is why I would like to hear from Mrs Lene Espersen whether the Conservatives still think it important that we have the binding targets for a green transition here, even in the event of government change. What will be the attitude towards this climate agreement and the agreement we made in 2012? Now I am talking about this in relation to the other two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190711-2	I would say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that, of course, we stand by the agreements we have made. And I would like to say here, as I said before the dinner break, that I think it is a huge force for the Conservative People's Party that we have a green profile and that we stand out from the other parties. We do not believe so much in ideologies, because we have a contract between different generations, and that is why we must leave a planet for our children and grandchildren who want to be cleaner and nicer and who have even better order in the economy than the planet we took over ourselves. The fact that the other parties in the blue bloc have a different attitude on some points does mean that we have to negotiate on how things should end. And it has to be said that the present government is in a situation where the parliamentary basis is virtually not included in any agreements. So, Enhedslisten is almost outside most of what the government is doing and outside the agreements that have already been made. So I have to say that it is easy to deal with it, that we are different and are bound by previous conciliation. But I hope that precisely the climate issue and the whole transition to a fossil-free society will be one of the things that will be held up even after a parliamentary election, because I think there are many jobs in having a green profile in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190822	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190823	I fully agree with that, and I would like to congratulate the Conservative People's Party for precisely having this green profile and in order to honour an agreement which we therefore entered into with the parties I have mentioned here. Frankly, I do not think that the Danish People's Party and the Left have honoured the agreement that they themselves helped to make. I really think that Mrs Lene Espersen made that clear. However, I would just like to ask again to be absolutely sure: will the Conservative People's Party run from the agreement we have made to reduce climate emissions by 40%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190901	But I would like to say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that we are, of course, in agreement with the agreements we have reached. However, when government power changes, it is sometimes the case that some parties are involved in agreements and other parties are outside agreements or legislative proposals. And typically it is the case that you then come together to solve that challenge. For example: was the challenge when SF had to join the government that SF among others. was not a member of the Afghanistan Association. It had to be resolved, and we found a solution to that. That is why I feel that I am quite convinced that, after an election, if the electorate wishes another government to come, there will of course be a discussion about how the composition should be. But we will then fight to ensure that we still make sure that there is a green profile and that there is a stake on it in Denmark. Because it is one of the places where we in Denmark are really strong and where we can provide many jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190948	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009190950	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a well-balanced defence of the rapporteur's views. It's good to see you here at the end of the night. That gives us all energy, so thank you for that. I think I heard the rapporteur say that there are 100 000 foreigners employed in agriculture, forestry and horticulture. If I heard correctly, I think that the rapporteur should check the figures, because then there are more foreigners than are employed in the three sectors as a whole. So I guess I'm the one who's heard wrong. But it wasn't the most important thing either. What I was concerned with was the context in which the rapporteur apparently felt there was a link, let us say many thousands of foreigners in the three sectors, and that there are many thousands more on transfer income. The rapporteur did not elaborate on why this comparison was made, but I would ask the rapporteur to do so now. I ask a little polemical, because then we get started on something: was it just to suggest that there are a whole lot of people who go around on transfer income and who don't really want to take work in the three industries? Or what was the purpose of that link?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191059	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen for the very nice introductory remarks. Now I am counting on us to be at least another 4-5 hours, so I hope, too, sir. Finn Sørensen has been refueled. I said there were over 100,000 foreigners working I think the most up-to-date number I have is 123,000. But if you go in and look at it by industry and that's what's a little interesting I can say in relation to e.g. agriculture and horticulture, that the latest figure I have from 2013 shows that 26.5%. of all persons employed in that area are foreigners. If we talk cleaning and service, it's 23.7%. I sure as hell don't bring my glasses up here, but it's something like that. So that is a very significant proportion of the employees in what can be called the unskilled segment, which is now aliens. At the same time, we know from the studies made by e.g. Dansk Arbejdsforening, that foreigners are collective employees as much as the Danes. And that is why I ask myself the question: how can it be that we have over 800,000 Danes where, at least some people cannot demand that they have to have a special education, because we are talking about unskilled work that is on transfer income rather than having jobs in these sectors?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191208	Thank you! Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191210	Thank you. And thank you for the figures, because I think that is actually the right size ratio. So the question is: what is the reason for this? Is it because there are probably some of the resident Danes on transfer income who should pull themselves together and take the jobs that there are so many foreigners employed there? In other words, because the Danes do not bother as the rapporteur is still a little on the way to implying. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur to address some figures from exactly the three industries where 8,134 Danes were fired in the period from 2009 to 2013, but 7,758 East workers were recruited. So in this country, it's the employers that hire and fire. This confirms the figures I have given here, and I could take similar figures from other sectors which are exposed to what we call social dumping, which I do not know about the rapporteur's recognition. But we are the ones who do. Does the figure I give here and similar figures from other sectors not confirm that it is employers, companies who prefer to employ Eastern European labour force over resident labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191328	Now I don't know those numbers. But I would like to say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that the studies I have seen confirm that foreigners working here in Denmark are just as organized as the Danes are in terms of having an agreement. That is paragraph 1, because it has been a discussion. Paragraph 2 is that I think there are very, very many Danes whose only great, burning desire is to find a job and who are deeply frustrated that they do not get it. But there are 800,000 Danes who get new jobs every year. I guess we're the country in the world where you actually most often change jobs. And for many, a job can also be found. But I just have to say to Mr. Simpson... Finn Sørensen, that many polls and surveys have shown that unfortunately there is also a group of Danes who say that they do not want to take a job because it does not pay for them. And that is why we Conservatives have openly presented our proposals on how, among other things, we are going to do so. can have a reform of the cash benefits and of the benefit system, so that we create a much greater incentive for people to say yes to getting a job. Because I would like the people who are unemployed in Denmark to take up the work for which they have qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191436	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, and she became the last to be included in the question round for Mrs Lene Espersen before we go further in the rapporteur's line.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191446	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on sir. Jesper Petersen's question. What is the priority of Conservatives: to lighten taxes at the top or at the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191457	I would say that the Conservative People's Party's top priority is that we get growth in Denmark and get some more jobs created. There, in our 2020 plan, we have presented our proposals on how to do it, and that is among other things. by getting the treasure relieved. It is clear that lightening the tax at the bottom is relatively expensive. But if you increase the employment allowance, it means that for every penny you take off, it is better to go to work every day. Lighting at the top provides a great deal in relation to labour supply and thus also more prosperity and more money for welfare. But it is clear that it targets only a small group, and that is also why you get more for the money. What matters to us is that the tax will be reduced. So you can't put it like that. I think that if I asked the Radical Left what their top priority is and they could only choose one thing, then I think it would be difficult, because we are in politics because we are passionate about a great many different things at the same time. For us, it is vital that the tax is reduced, and we have fairly good experience of getting through with our policy • even if we haven't always been the biggest party in the Parliament if only we are persistent enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191603	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191603-2	What I would like to know is whether, as a conservative, one will then go to the negotiations and say that the first chance one might get is that the top tax will be abolished. Or do you think it would be just as good to do both a little at the top and a little at the bottom, even if it did not become a complete abolition of the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191624	Well, then, we will go to negotiations with our policy, and then it depends on how much strength we have with us from the electorate and how much strength the other bourgeois parties have. And hopefully we will also join with the Radical Left, which also tends to advocate a reduction in the tax burden on labour. But I do not think we can do this in such a way that we should get mad and do not want to be involved if we do not get anything at both tax rates. The crucial thing for us is that people should be allowed to keep more of the money they have hard earned by going to work every day, and this will contribute to the growth and prosperity of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191702	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. It was the end of questions to Mrs Lene Espersen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Johan Lund Olsen from IA. I think I should not try to pronounce what the party is called in Greenlandic. - Sir, you can. Johan Lund Olsen himself might just say when he gets on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009191726	Thank you, sir. President. My party is called Inuit Ataqatigiit. That fg. President Yes, I could not have said that.) Ladies and gentlemen of the Danish Parliament and the Danish Government. Let me be perfectly honest: Greenland is in a deep political and economic crisis and just last week the current government coalition of Siumut and Atassut had to issue new elections early for the holding of 28 November of this year. People have had plenty and demonstrate time and time again with a message that enough is enough. There are violent politicians, and the Greenlandic electorate has become mega-tired with nepotism, comradery and friend services. The people are tired of lack of realism and lack of transparency and transparency in political decision-making processes. Citizens are tired of people with knowledge and insights about economic conditions being neglected and tired of the economic wise men's recommendations for the benefit of Greenland's economy, and thus for the well-being of the people over and over again. And I can go on and on and on and on, the list is long. In other words, we have witnessed a very, very bad governance. People are shouting and demanding broad political settlements that will ensure the future of the Greenlandic welfare community with free health care, free schooling, good care for the elderly, good conditions for children and young people, etc. etc. People want a good relationship with the outside world and a Denmark, which in turn can secure and promote business development in Greenland, and which can promote investment desires again. Because there are plenty of opportunities in Greenland, which, if you approach it correctly, can become a win-win situation for all parties. However, this requires reforms in Greenlandic society in a number of vital areas. Inuit Ataqatigiits Inatsisartut group fought hard last week when the Inatsisartut collection started. We took the first opportunity to table a motion of censure against the now-deceased President of the Naala Suisut. Our message was clear: We do not accept the misuse of society's funds, and Greenland must have a new beginning. The voters must be heard again. This is necessary in order to restore confidence in Inatsisartut and in governance in general. The chairman of Naalaksuisut was initially rescued by his own. Another slender majority voted in favour of a defensive agenda, but we did not give up. The next day, we were given a majority in favour of calling Mr Inatsisartut to appear in the Chamber as a matter of urgency with a view to drawing up elections. Only here did it now issue the interim president of the Naalaksuisut elections. Greenland now has a new opportunity to choose the representatives who can lead Greenland safely and safely. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we are ready to make the difficult choices of reform, ready to ensure a credible and well-thought-out policy, ready to help rebuild confidence in our parliament and the country's leadership. Those were tough days last week. Everyone was marked by the chaos and uncertainty in which the now outgoing government had led us. We listened to the people. Democracy worked. We are very proud of this from Inuit Ataqatigiits. We have a lot to be proud of, after all. The whole population of Greenland has fought hard to get to where we are today. We in Inuit Ataqatigiits will not let 11⁄2 years of extremely bad governance destroy all the good we have built together. Our rich and diverse cultural life blooms, the music flows out and is documented in amazing films like the new Sume film, which I highly recommend. We have creative young people and a new generation who see themselves as world citizens while preserving our roots. We have a rich history and a rich society that we have built up ourselves. It is we ourselves who have been at the helm on the vast majority of matters since the introduction of the home regime in 1979. Of course we still have many problems to solve; social, educational and, above all, economic challenges. We must stand together and find common ground and solutions. These are the values on which Inuit Ataqatigiit will work out of this crisis. We invite cooperation within our beloved country and with everyone else around us. Inuit Ataqatigiit, my party, is therefore also very concerned about the need for social reform. Greenland's economy is hard pressed. After all, the report by the Commission on Taxation and Welfare and, most recently, the report by the Greenland Economic Council clearly show that Greenland's society will lack the means to maintain the welfare system we know today if reforms are not introduced and new revenues are not found. This means that new and more different professions must be developed. There has been political agreement for a number of years that the raw materials and oil industry should be part of these industries. There has also been political agreement for a number of years on the framework within which the oil and mineral sector is to be developed. During the '00s, world prices for raw materials were historically high. This led to high expectations of projects and investments in Greenland's underground. In 2014, this year, the picture looks somewhat different. World prices are falling, and investors have not proved to be quite as risky as we could have expected. Inuit Ataqatigiit therefore believes that it is of great importance that we together within Greenland, but also gladly in cooperation with Denmark. Let me stress again: but also in cooperation with Denmark, we will find together strategies and regulatory frameworks that create stability. We ourselves in Greenland know what we expect from the development of the coming years in the field of oil and mineral, but investors and companies from outside must also know what they meet and can expect in Greenland. This also means that there is a need for broad conciliation in Greenland. The status quo is no longer an option, and the leading parties in Greenland are whipped to join their heads instead of continuing trench wars and mud throwing. The broad settlements should cover the main sectors of activity such as fisheries, construction, raw materials and tourism. Reforms in the area of housing and social services are also urgently needed. The reconciliations must pave the way for stable and positive business and economic development and promote the drive for investment in all sectors, as well as social responsibility, and must focus on innovative developments in the use of both renewable and non-renewable resources. When Inuit Ataqatigiit was the government-leading party in Greenland, we conducted a stable and united financial policy with a balance between expenditure and revenue in our common budget, and we started the great reform work to ensure prosperity in the future. Indeed, a strong economy is at the heart of maintaining a system of solidarity in the future. We want to ensure that education opportunities for all are also available in the future, a strong and modern hospital system and a social safety net for those in a situation where they need help. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants a sustainable society in development. We have a joint responsibility to ensure that the Greenland we leave to our children and grandchildren is a healthy, solid, fair, solidarity and open society; a society with a strong and open democratic system with room for all who will contribute. During the past year, Inuit Ataqatigiit here in the Danish Parliament has focused on a wide range of issues, in particular the Greenlandic judiciary and criminal services, socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, defence activities in and around Greenland and the case of the legal orphans in Greenland. This has led to meetings with the Council of Resorts, and we are particularly pleased with the results that we have been able to achieve in relation to the dispute resolution in the Greenlandic courts, ensuring permanent funding for the social projects in Denmark for socially vulnerable Greenlanders and finally a legislative framework for the legal orphans, although the final result could have been better. Last month I had a number of meetings with Danish politicians here at Christiansborg and an initial meeting with the finance minister on the government's draft Finance Act for 2015. The cases have concerned Greenland's justice system, the Department of Criminal Welfare in Greenland, defence, again the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark and the follow-up work to implement the law on the legal orphans. Let me say that I feel that there have been fine and constructive meetings and I look forward to following up these meetings in the future. Let me also take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for the insightful and sensible words about the Kingdom Community at the opening of the Danish Parliament on Tuesday. We agree that when Greenland and Denmark can get together, we also achieve the best results together. We saw that as far as whaling quotas are concerned. It is true that Greenland needs new revenue and that reforms are needed. A growth fund for the whole Kingdom community would therefore also be a good start to continuing good relations between our two countries. We have a lot of work to do in this Chamber, but certainly also in Greenland. But Greenland, as you know, has only two seats in the Folketing, as do the Faroe Islands, and we are both as nations part of the kingdom. When the Folketing, with the exception of Enhedslisten the other day, supported the government's decision to go to war, Denmark again became a warring state. It concerned the whole state, the whole realm, and even though the decision has not been taken in Greenland or in the Faroe Islands, and even if these parts of the kingdom may be opposed to going to war, Greenland and the Faroe Islands become part of the Danish Empire formally also warring. The Faroe Islands have their own parliament. This is the Parliament which should express such views on behalf of the nation. Greenland also has its own parliament, Inatsisartut. Thus the Lating in the Faroe Islands and the Greenlandic Landsting, Inatsisartut, decided that we were opposed to Danish participation in the Iraq War in 2003. The fact that Denmark makes such decisions on behalf of the whole kingdom, without the Faroe Islands and Greenland having the opportunity at least to get an opinion, is a mistake in the scheme. And it is a mistake that has both damaged and can damage relations between the countries of the Kingdom community. And I also believe that it is against the Itilleq Declaration, where Denmark and Greenland otherwise agreed on mutual orientation and consultation on such issues as well. Finally, as my Faroese colleague, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, therefore, also says that this is a democratic deficit which we in this Chamber should correct. Inuit Ataqatigiit is therefore also prepared to see how and how we together, i.e. the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark, can bring about improvements in this particular area. Qujanaq, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009192910	Thank you. There's a little question. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009192915	Thank you. I'd like to thank you, sir. Johan Lund Olsen for a strong and committed speech and also for it to be very open and honest about the incredibly difficult situation in Greenland. The first condition for moving forward is, of course, that we recognize the difficulties we face. I was particularly concerned about a clear announcement that IA wants a broad cooperation in the Greenlandic Landsting, and I think that all of us can agree on this and hope for it. You're the ones who have to find out. It is probably easier said than done, but we can all hope that it will succeed, because that is probably what Greenland needs. I also took note of the last remark on the right of consultation of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in serious situations, such as Denmark's participation in war. I think we should give a commitment to continue working on how we can find a sensible solution to this. Then I just have one question... I have one against which one is opposed. At least that's what I've been told. Is it the case that that attitude stands and how will the IA deal with it in relation to any new formation of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193039	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. It is true that there is a need for broad cooperation in the new Parliament, in Inatsisartut, after the new elections on 28 November. I think there are many in Greenland who are now prepared to do so, so it is a hope I share with Mr. Finn Sørensen. In relation to uranium, I have to say that our party's position is unchanged. Many in this Chamber know my party's position on possible uranium extraction. We also discussed this in the last session, at the opening debate last year, in which I myself took part. Some have asked whether IA will roll back the lifting of the zero tolerance policy after any new elections. It's still gone to say. This will depend entirely on the negotiations that will take place after the new elections. However, our position is very clear: we are still opposed to uranium extraction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193157	Sir. Finn Sørensen? No more questions. Then it's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193203	Thank you very much for a good speech. I'd like to ask you, sir. Johan Lund Olsen to bring a greeting back to Greenland. The Greenland committee was on a trip here in the summer and was amazingly hospitably received everywhere. I could also hope that Greenlanders who visit Denmark or live in Denmark would feel equally welcome. This is how we were met, and I have always been met when I have traveled in Greenland. Now the reality is that there must be new elections in Greenland. This is a really difficult situation for everyone in Greenland and also for the Greenlanders who live in Denmark. If sir... Johan Lund Olsen now had to give priority to three areas where it would be important for there to be a strong cooperation not only in Greenland, but also in relation to the Kingdom community • one of my own commandments would be the natural resources and how we could work in relation to them. But could Mr. Johan Lund Olsen may just try to elaborate on where it would be really important, so we go the same way and do not do what may have been the trend, and what could have been the experience, namely Greenland for itself and Denmark for ourselves, despite the fact that we are in a kingdom community where we need each other very much, also in the whole area of security.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193331	Thank you to Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen for her fine words. I myself was in Greenland this summer when the Greenland Committee was visiting, and I had the impression that you got a lot out of the trip.I have at least been told that and I hope it is something that will promote and strengthen the kingdom community between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. What three areas would I prioritise? Yes, well, I was saying that there are a number of areas that we need to look at. We need to look at how we promote investment desire again in Greenland and how we ensure business promotion. When we from Greenland and Denmark entered into the self-government agreement with a number of parties in this Chamber, we agreed to work to ensure that Greenland becomes more economically self-sufficient, and that would be a good start, and that is a good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193452	Then it's Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193453	Thank you for those answers. Finally, I would like to say that I look forward to cooperation. At least from here it has been reported that there is support for Greenland and for cooperation, even after a choice. All the best wishes for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193513	I can only say qujanaq, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193521	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193524	Thank you very much, sir. Johan Lund Olsen. I know that it is said that there are things that need to be done here in Denmark and that there are things that need to be done in Greenland. Yes, that is exactly what we have put in the framework of the Kingdom community. I have experienced that the dialogue between Greenland and Denmark has become easier, more open and more direct, just because politicians in Greenland, but also politicians here in the Danish Parliament, have realised that this is the way to do it when you want each other the best and want it together. I very much agree with the rapporteur when he says that there are things that need to be done to develop Greenland, but also to develop the platforms that are a Community issue and therefore a real concern. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on saying that, as the situation is in Greenland, the rapporteur considers it to be the case that Greenland is whipped to reach broad compromises in order to achieve the stability required. And I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur says about investment in and around Greenland: does the rapporteur consider political stability in Greenland to be a factor in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193645	Thank you. Political stability in Greenland is very, very important. It is probably alpha and omega if Greenland's economic problems are to be overcome. After all, we have a number of large international companies knocking on the door because there are so many rich opportunities for mineral extraction and so on, but unfortunately many are reluctant to invest because of political instability. That is why we call from my party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, for us to enter into this broad conciliation, including in the area of raw materials policy and in other areas such as fisheries policy. That is why we are very concerned about this and believe that we are being whipped to make reforms in a number of areas, particularly in the fisheries, business and social and housing sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193752	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193752-2	I am very pleased to hear that, because there is an outstretched hand from Denmark to Greenland and vice versa in the inter-ministerial working group set up by Denmark in the Ministry of Business and Growth, which is just trying to draw a picture to find out what the landscape looks like in terms of investments. Therefore, it should not be a final question, but a final appeal to the entire Greenlandic political spectrum to stick to what is being said by the IA, namely that you will bring what needs to be done in order to achieve the broad settlements, because it is also the clear position of the Socialists that it is more important than perhaps anything else when it comes to drawing a positive picture that stimulates investment in the global investment landscape.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009193852	Thank you. As I am, among other things. was mentioned in my speech, Greenland now has a new opportunity to choose the representatives who can lead Greenland safely and safely on. That is absolutely necessary. It is therefore also so liberating that Greenland must now also enter a new election, so that we can rebuild confidence in parliament and rebuild confidence in government, because when there is more confidence in the political situation in Greenland abroad and here in the Chamber, we can cooperate much better. So that's the message. But in the end, I have a little heart sigh here. There is an area that we have to pay particular attention to, including here in the Danish Parliament, and that is in relation to the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. All our problems, and we do not hide that, lead to many young Greenlanders wandering to Denmark without goals and means, and they perish in Danish society. We have to do something. Unfortunately, we saw a very, very unfortunate situation here the day before yesterday. I have had meetings with the Council of Social Affairs Ministers and also with Jann Sjursen, and we say that someone has to do something. But we have to do that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009194025	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Doris Jakobsen, Siumut. And if that is not true, Mrs Doris Jakobsen must say the right thing herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009194041	Elections have been held in Greenland. Most people in Denmark have followed the situation up to the announcement of the elections, and I do not intend to say anything more about this matter here. I would, however, like to emphasise that I am pleased to live in a community of law where it has consequences for leading politicians that they do not have order in their annexes. I do not expect the elections in Greenland to have a major impact on the work here in the Folketing, also because Siumut and IA are now working together on the Danish Finance Act and the Greenlandic wishes for it. It is a cooperation which I hope will be strengthened after the forthcoming elections, because the economic situation in Greenland today is such that we need to stand together. Greenland needs political calm and economic stability in relation to business. Therefore, in Siumut in the coming parliamentary year, we will continue to work to create a new financial framework to ensure that Danish investors have secure access to Greenland. Therefore, we also welcome the Prime Minister's announcement in the opening speech about stronger cooperation on business development and a new way of using the Danish Growth Fund. At the same time, any improvement in the economy in Greenland will benefit Denmark, especially if this improvement takes place in collaboration with Danish companies and investors. Siumut will continue to work to ensure that the Greenlandic justice system is fully in line with the Danish. Over the last year there have been too many problems with the judiciary in Greenland. Fortunately, some of them have already been solved, but a number of our settlements are without municipal guards and detentions, and a number of our institutions are worn out. The salaries of staff officers do not follow Danish standards, and there is even a lack of police dogs in several places. We will address this in the forthcoming financial law negotiations. Similarly, Siumut will continue to follow developments in the emergency areas. We have several times pointed out the advantages of trying to create a voluntary preparedness in Greenland following the example of Iceland. Now we are awaiting the report expected to come from the Minister for Defence in December. In this context, I would like to say that Siumut wants us to have a thorough analysis of the extent and value of the overflight of Greenlandic airspace. During the last parliamentary year, I have tried to clarify what the U.S. military station Camp Century has left under our ice sheet. I believe that the Danish Government is more confident about the information it has been able to provide about it than we are in Greenland. On the whole, I think we could use a review of what the military use of Greenland by the United States has led to in the long term. Siumut will continue to ensure that there is full insight into what US military activity brings to our fragile environment even after it has ceased. In addition, however, we should enter into closer cooperation with the United States on the development of the Arctic region. The United States is in the process of developing and implementing their Arctic strategy, and Denmark should try to use this for increased cooperation with the United States in both the field of preparedness and climate and business throughout the Arctic. It is Siumut's view that they want our party to have always expressed independence for Greenland, all too often misunderstood in Denmark. Indeed, we have often pointed to the international system called the Free Association as a model of the kind of autonomy we would like to see realised. It is a model recognised by the United Nations. It is a model in which Greenland will have the right to act itself in international contexts such as: Olympics and IWC. It is a model in which we can retain the Danish royal house in Greenland. It is a model in which we can maintain cooperation with Denmark on defence and foreign policy. It is a model that would give the Greenlandic people the sense of identity liberation that they repeatedly want for an independent Greenland is first and foremost an expression of, without the Community ending with Denmark. It is a model which has been successfully used by both New Zealand, the Netherlands and the United States in relation to their former overseas territories with ethnic, cultural and historical characteristics. Siumut would like to call for us to stand together, but that the Danish parties should use the time to examine this model more closely. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the many achievements that have been achieved in Greenland under the current government. I believe that cooperation between Greenland and Denmark has rarely been better than it is today. We have seen it in the ecclesiastical area where we have a Greenlandic priest employed in the Danish system. We have seen it in the social field, where we have received a number of pool funds for Greenlandic purposes made permanent and got started a nationwide strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders; a strategy which, unfortunately, the sad event of the Greenlandic homeless, who died on the street the day before yesterday, has made much more topical. We have seen it in the area of justice, where action has been taken against waiting lists for asylums and legal proceedings in Greenland. We have seen it in the desire to strengthen the preparedness in Greenland. We have seen it with the legislation of the legal orphans in Greenland. And last but not least, we have seen it in the context of the joint action of the International Whaling Commission, which has led to new fair quotas for Greenland. That is why Siumut will continue to support the current government. In the coming election year, Siumut will continue the close cooperation with the Social Democrats because it has been a cooperation which has clearly been of great benefit to both Greenland and the Greenlanders who live here in Denmark. But we are still an independent party, also in Denmark. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009194816	Thank you. There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009194820	Thank you to Mrs Doris Jakobsen for a good speech. I would only like to confirm that we are very happy to cooperate with Mrs Doris Jakobsen on the objectives described by Mrs Jakobsen in relation to the judiciary. We sometimes forget that the Act of Self-Government states that the level of the areas for which the Commonwealth is responsible must be the same as in similar areas in Denmark. There is probably some way before we can live up to it, but we must start by committing ourselves to the objective, and at least Enhedslisten would like to contribute to that. There is also support for Mrs Doris Jakobsen in identifying the importance of the American military presence for Greenland. I have a question for Mrs Doris Jakobsen, and that is mostly for us to be well informed. How do Mrs Doris Jakobsen and her party view the possibilities for broad cooperation in the Greenland Landsting after the elections to the Landsting? Otherwise, I can only do what I did with Mr. Knox. Johan Lund Olsen, wish you good luck with your work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009194934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009194935	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Cooperation is very important to us, including here in the Folketing. We attach great importance to continuing cooperation with the Socialists and direct cooperation with the Danish party. I think it is most beneficial to have direct cooperation. In the past, we had the North Atlantic group. There we have had a small group and we had to knock on the door, but now we can say our opinion directly to the Danish politicians at their group meetings etc. We also aim to have a broad collaboration with the other Danish parties. That is why we also have close cooperation with the Greenland rapporteurs from the various parties. And we aim to have a good cooperation between Inatsisartut and the Danish Parliament. That is why we are holding some meetings with videoconferencing. I think we should keep doing this. I know that the judiciary is still a Danish responsibility. That is why we are also fighting for equal pay for example. Circuit judges and assistant judges, for the salaries of the officials of the institutions, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195101	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195102	Thank you. Well, I acknowledge the efforts of Mrs Doris Jakobsen and also the other North Atlantic Members to have a more free and open debate on the situation in the Kingdom Community. And Mrs Doris Jakobsen deserves her share of the credit for this, certainly. My question was, of course, how Mrs Doris Jakobsen views the possibilities for cooperation in the Greenlandic Landsting after the elections. I'm asking because sir... Johan Lund Olsen announced a clear wish for a broad cooperation across the middle, and it is not so difficult to figure out I don't know exactly where the centre is in Greenland, but at least a broad collaboration. So I just wanted to know if there was a similar request from Mrs Doris Jakobsen's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195152	Yes, the people of Greenland are very divided now, especially the voters of the largest parties. That is why I also believe that the two largest parties should cooperate after the elections, instead of throwing mud at each other all the time, so that the people can have peace. Well, that's my wish, and that's what we're gonna decide after the election. Otherwise we will also be open to the other parties, but if I have to say my own opinion, I think that the two largest parties, that is. Siumut and IA should work together because it is the two largest parties that are so divided now. Although we share almost the same political views, I think we should work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195245	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195250	Thank you. There have been some extremely gloomy figures, which, of course, both Mrs Doris Jakobsen and Mr Doris Jakobsen. Johan Lund Olsen mentioned, in relation to Greenland's economy. Cooperation between universities in Nuuk and Copenhagen has shown that you can look forward to perhaps for the next 15-20 years running with annual deficits of around 600-700 million. kr. in the Greenlandic economy. And in this context, it might be interesting to hear how Siumut I also understand that Mrs Doris Jakobsen is candidates for the chair in Siumut • has intended, if they regain power in Greenland, to correct Greenland's economy. Could it, for example? Is it done by changing the block subsidy, as has been done in the past? Now it is settled in relation to legislation, but was it an option? And if it is not an option, how will Siumut correct Greenland's economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195354	The Greenland Economic Council has mentioned the three pillars, which I also agree with: fisheries, raw materials and tourism. After all, we have over 200 different species of fish in Greenland waters, and we only use five of them now. I believe that we should also use some other fish species in the future. Then you have, for example. introduced a cruise tax, which is why we have reduced our tourism. As far as raw materials are concerned, we have had no extraction. It is therefore also necessary to cooperate with the Danish companies, which can invest in the Greenlandic development opportunities. In other words, business development is very important, and that is why we also believe that we should have close cooperation with Danish industrial companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195506	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195507	Yes, but the very things that Mrs Doris Jakobsen mentions, namely raw materials, fisheries and tourism, are, of course, what we are aiming for in Greenland, but they are also included. The three main industries, perhaps in Greenland, are also included in the reports, and it is clear that when it comes to the raw materials that might be able to correct Greenland's economy, there is a great deal to do. It is not expected in the reports that have come that there will be any particular profit from raw materials before perhaps some 20 to 30 years' time, so that is the intermediate period that I am interested in. What do you do there? What are you gonna do? Are there any options at all? For the figures that are missing, the money that is lacking in the Greenlandic economy, is astronomical. Well, that's gonna be like I can't even figure it out... hundreds of billion dollars in relation to the economy we have. And that is why we must look at how we intend to solve Greenland's problems from now on and 20-25 years ahead. That is what we are talking about, and I do not think I am getting a proper answer. I do not think that hoping for a little more fish, a little more tourism and some taxes on some cruise ships is enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195631	Well, Greenland doesn't have debts. Our financial situation is serious, but not as bad as the Danish People's Party believes. Siumut also does not want to increase the block subsidy. Greenland itself has taken responsibility for the economy, and I believe that Greenland itself should cope with Greenland's economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195701	Then it's mr. Eigil Andersen. No, it was a mistake. We're gonna pass on Mr. Kevin. Eigil Andersen and goes to mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195710	That, on the other hand, is quite correct. I would like to acknowledge to Mrs Doris Jakobsen that she is expressing her personal opinion on the need for broad cooperation after the elections in Greenland. I think it's really nice to hear it at this time when the election campaign is already in progress in Greenland, and when we also know from the Danish political arena that rhetoric can very easily be shattered and that you can go hard to each other. So I'd like to sign for that. I would also like to acknowledge that Mrs Doris Jakobsen says that there is good cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. Here I would like to highlight an example from the last session here, where we had a complex case of legal orphans, which was a difficult matter, but where, in cooperation between Greenlandic parliamentarians here in the Danish Parliament and the Danish Parliament, we showed that we could get things right, and also, as Mrs Doris Jakobsen says, that we are getting closer. Although we do not do so geographically, we put videoconferencing and other things in, so we have the close dialogue between the two parliaments. I would also like to say, as I said to the rapporteur of the IA, that the broad conciliation in Greenland in the future should not be seen as if we want to get involved more than necessary and well, but it has been said that we have a common interest, which is also expressed in what is our foreign affairs within the Kingdom Community. And I would like to hear from Mrs Doris Jakobsen whether there is also a recognition that it is not over-involvement on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009195854	I can only say that I agree with Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen in that Greenland needs a broad cooperation. As I said, the population has become very divided, especially in the last year, because the two largest parties are fighting each other all the time and throwing mud at each other. I don't think that's okay. The people need calm, and therefore I myself call for the two largest parties to cooperate with each other, including here in the Folketing. We are already doing that. However, as regards Danish involvement, I would like to say that Greenland has taken responsibilities home. I believe that we must do what we have taken responsibility for ourselves. For example: I mean, that fg. President Yes, it must come in the second round).
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200000	One minute goes fast. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200002	Thank you. I would like to put a question to Mrs Doris Jakobsen concerning the part of her speech which went on to say that when the speech falls on Greenland's independence... that is how I think Mrs Doris Jakobsen expressed it... it is often perhaps something that is misunderstood in Denmark. So, I would like to say that I really believe that the Socialist position is very clear, because we know what the self-government law says, and we know what the Greenlandic option is if and when Greenland decides to do so. I would also like to say that there is nothing new about parties in Greenland expressing their desire for independence. I remember it from several decades back, yes, from before 1979 and from home rule. So where is it that Mrs Doris Jakobsen thinks there is a misunderstood interpretation of the desire for independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200058	I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Socialists will respect our Greenlandic resolution in the future. I also believe that the wishes of the people of Greenland must be respected. In other words, when we start talking about independence, it is often misunderstood, as if we want to get out of Denmark immediately. The method I mentioned is free association, which means that we can keep our cooperation, or that we can be under Denmark, but on a more equal footing with Denmark, that one can continue with, for example. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. can get some seats in the UN, just as we do in the IWC and the other organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200204	Thank you to Mrs Doris Jakobsen. There are no more questions, and that is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Edmund Joensen, the Samband Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200214	Politics and people's lives are similar. It is a question of grasping the opportunity when it presents itself, and it is a question of being present. For the individual, the aim is to improve life, and in politics, the aim is to change society for the best of our citizens. At this last opening debate in the parliamentary term, the questions are: have we been present? Have we grasped the opportunity to improve society and the community of kingdoms for the benefit of all citizens? I believe that the Folketing has managed to move the community forward. Let me briefly mention some good results: border barriers in the Commonwealth must be combated and we are now awaiting a very important initiative from the government in this area. Denmark's Radio will strengthen its coverage of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Funding is provided for new teaching material on the Kingdom community. Faroese and Greenlandic companies have access to capital in the Growth Fund. An agreement on Faroese and Greenlandic students' graduation rights is under way. There will be a solution for the Faroe Islands and Greenland if Denmark joins in the pan-European financial supervision and deposit guarantee. Outside Christiansborg's walls, the Association is founded. We are now going on a path where the Kingdom community is developing instead of it being phased out. It is a sensible policy and I am pleased that the parties see the value of developing rather than phasing out. Having said that, however, there have also been cases that are pulling in the wrong direction for the Kingdom community. One thing is that the government cannot continue to participate fully in the financing of major common welfare areas for the Faroe Islands, and that is deeply regrettable. There was also the EU's trade boycott of the Faroe Islands. So the question is, has the Kingdom community been harmed by the boycott? We can happily answer no to that. The boycott stressed our community, and the community passed the test. The Faroe Islands themselves took up the fight against Brussels, and the government supported the Faroe Islands in the planned legal proceedings against the EU. I'd like to sign for that. There are, however, things that should be done differently in terms of experience if we find ourselves in a similar situation in the future. The Faroe Islands know very well that Denmark has obligations as an EU country. But it is elementary that you do not boycott your own citizens; you do not. Nor should it be necessary to pressure the government to abstain from voting for sanctions against the Faroe Islands in the EU Council of Ministers. In the Faroe Islands it should also be evaluated, for example. abstain from the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote to wind up the debate on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote to wind up the debate on the request for an early vote on the request for On the eve of the fall, I have a question for the Prime Minister in relation to the fight against border barriers within the Commonwealth. According to parliamentary resolution B 34, a report on the subject has to be prepared and a proposal should have come from the government during the parliamentary year which has just ended. It is important to give priority to the issue of border barriers and the problems involved, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister: when will the government's proposals be made? Finally, we could ask each other: what is the most important result that the Danish Parliament has achieved over the past year when it comes to the Kingdom Community? It is that a certain fear of touch has been markedly reduced. I am thinking of the concerns expressed by Members of Parliament about Faroese and Greenlandic relations. I am glad that the fear of touch is decreasing, and it can be said that the less fear of touch, the greater the possibility of achieving results. Will and courage to participate in politics and debate about the Faroe Islands and Greenland will develop the Kingdom Community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200859	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009200905	I'd like to thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen for a good speech, which was also wise and thoughtful and asked some important questions for all of us. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the good results which Mr. Edmund Joensen sketched out his speech and not least signed for Mr. Edmund Joensen's efforts to put the issue of border barriers within the Commonwealth on the agenda. So thank you so much for that. My question is: what happened to the Faroese lagman when he was visiting Putin and began to distance himself from the sanctions that we have here against Russia and that Denmark is part of? I would like to say that I recognise the right of the Faroe Islands to trade with whomever they like; the European Union should not interfere in that. That's not what this is about. It is about the Faroese Layerman making statements that could only be understood in the way that he might not really think that what the Russians were doing in Ukraine is so bad. I didn't really understand that. - Sir... Edmund Joensen tell us a little about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201009	Thank you. No, I have to say that it is not my table to interfere in what the national government and the layman say in the press. I can just say something about the situation. After all, the situation is that Russia has boycotted the great EU and Norway and not boycotted the small Faroe Islands and Iceland and Greenland. There is a great deal of trade between the countries, the Faroe Islands and Russia and the Faroe Islands and Iceland. This has been the case for many years. The Faroe Islands have been cooperating for 40 years with Russia, and exports have been rising. It can be said that it is not forbidden not to be subject to boycotts. It is therefore a boycott that Russia has chosen to impose on the European Union and Norway. What else is going on in the national government and in negotiations and in the press, one has to ask the layerman and others.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201132	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201135	Thank you. Perhaps it was also a little too much to ask that Mr. Edmund Joensen was to answer for it. It just occurred to me that these were some weird statements. But perhaps there is the seriousness of the matter which I know is being discussed in the Faroe Islands at the moment: should there be closer coordination between the leaders of the Kingdom Community, if that is to say, in such foreign policy situations? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201205-2	It's always good to have information between the Kingdom parts. Of course it is. But the Faroe Islands and Greenland are in the situation that they have their own parliaments, they have their own governments in the form of national government. They have the opportunity to speak. They have autonomy within their own borders in the new foreign policy law. So they have a certain self-determination over things. That must also be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201242	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201244	Thank you. I'd like to thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen, for we started the new year's cooperation in a good way with a good and constructive speech. I think the fact that we have moved the Kingdom community forward together and that we are going on a path of development and not of winding-up was a very good picture. I'm really glad. I think that is a good recognition of the cooperation we have. But I would very much like to ask Mr. Edmund Joensen to perhaps become a little clearer in what I perceived as a critical voice in relation to the common affairs of the Kingdom community in the welfare areas. I understood that Mr. Edmund Joensen said that here perhaps there is something where our positions are not entirely at the forefront or which we have not given the attention that Mr. Edmund Joensen thinks we should. What are the specific areas of concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201341	Thank you. Of course, we have common areas which the block grant covers as part of the payment for hospital and social services, which have not been taken over and which are the territory of the State and of the Faroe Islands' local government. There has been a distribution key for many years. Then there are changing national leaders who have changing interests. We had a local government that wanted to separate the Faroe Islands from the Commonwealth, but fortunately it didn't work out. At the same time, however, the national block subsidy was frozen so that it was not indexed. Then there will be a new local government which wants to see the price regulation put into effect again, but at the same time wants to normalise the size. In other words, it is a political decision. It is not a takeover by the letter of the law, but it is a desire from the national government to freeze. Now there is a new local government that wants to lift it to the level where it should be. That is where I blame the government here for not responding to the wishes of the national government. You want to put it down and freeze it, but you don't want to put it up to normal level again. This means that the government will not recognise its share in these cases which have not been taken over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201544	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll go over to mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale himself says what his party is called. That's the best part.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201600	It's called Javnaðarflokkurin. Can you say that? It's too bad, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201607	No, I can't pronounce that. At least it's sir. Sjúrður Skaale's turn to make his speech now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009201612	The Kingdom community is making us bigger, said the Prime Minister on Tuesday, and that is clear. The Faroe Islands and Greenland in particular are not just making Denmark's kingdom bigger; the Kingdom actually makes Denmark a great rich, comprehensive geographical, important strategic and heavy in international importance. But it certainly also makes it a little harder and more complicated to run the store. For although it is often referred to as a federal state three parts, and although in many cases the construction is actually similar to that of a federal state, Denmark is a state-law and formally a unitary state. Sovereignty lies in Denmark, and the Constitution does not say anything about any community between different parts of the kingdom. And then there is not the parallelism between Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which is sometimes tried for convenience. After all, the two North Atlantic countries are very different. Making things work, when there is such a big difference between the formal on the one hand and the real on the other hand, requires understanding in the daily and tapered situations also a little creativity, especially from the party that sits with sovereignty, that is, Denmark's government. This is particularly true in the field of foreign policy and defence policy. Throughout history, things have been going well and less well, but how are things going these days? The Prime Minister mentioned the great fishing dispute that the Faroe Islands have been part of and in which Denmark was entangled. There was potential for a major conflict between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, but it did not break out. The understanding was there for the most part. To paraphrase Sven Møller Kristensen's song about Larsen: It could be so bad, and it's actually good. The Prime Minister also mentioned the EU boycott of Russia, which Denmark supports, and where Denmark in turn is affected by Russia's response. The Faroe Islands do not boycott Russia, and instead of boycotting the Faroe Islands, Russia has done the opposite. Russia has publicly and internationally designated the Faroe Islands as one of the countries that secures Russia some of the goods they can no longer buy from the EU, Norway or the United States. The Faroese lager was even in Moscow at a meeting early in September, where much closer trade cooperation and even strategic cooperation between Russia and the Faroe Islands were talked about, and where the lager expressed his disagreement with the EU boycott of Russia. I think this was an extremely unfortunate political statement, and the anger it aroused is understandable, but it should be borne in mind that if the Faroe Islands had boycotted Russia and thus been hit by Russia's boycott, it would be a much harder blow for the Faroe Islands than for any EU country. After all, Faroese exports to Russia are relatively high, not least because of the illegal boycott of international law to which the EU subjected the Faroe Islands last year. The Russian market became part of the Faroe Islands' rescue during the conflict. So, although one may very disagree with the political statements from the Faroe Islands' lagman, neither the EU nor the EU country Denmark can afford to criticise the Faroe Islands for the trade that is going on and, it must be admitted, has grown slightly in the last few weeks. For the EU itself has driven the Faroe Islands into Russia's embrace. However, we do not escape the fact that trading food with Russia, as the situation is, is not just trade policy, it is also foreign policy. It is Faroese foreign policy, which in this case, as has happened before, comes across Denmark's foreign policy, and with the Layerman's political announcements we do not just have a lack of consistency between Denmark's and the Faroe Islands' international action we have a direct contradiction. Of course, the Moscow visit created press coverage in both Norway and Russia and Denmark, as well as critical comments from the political team. That is quite right. Danish politicians and Danish press are, of course, fully entitled to have an opinion on the matter, but I was a bit nervous when the Foreign Minister was asked about his position. For would he say something that could be interpreted as restricting the right of the Faroe Islands to conduct their own trade policy? In that case, it would tip the balance in the division of competences between the Faroe Islands and Denmark in the wrong direction. But fortunately the Foreign Minister gave the only wise answer: the Faroe Islands know the situation, said the Minister, and I will not make myself an overjudge of what to do. That's gotta be it. The Faroe Islands economy is the responsibility of the Faroe Islands, and our industry and our authorities must have the freedom to make all the decisions that concern the economy. I do not always agree with the decisions taken, but if the Commonwealth is to function, there must be no doubt as to who has the right to make decisions, even when the fisheries and trade policy of the Faroe Islands comes across Denmark's foreign policy. So, on this issue too, I would say: gone. And I sign for it. Both humanitarianly, diplomatically and militarily, Denmark is doing a good job in many places in the world where people need help, and the Prime Minister began his speech on Tuesday by stating that, according to last week's decision here in the Things, the Danish fighter aircraft have landed in Kuwait, where they are to take part in the fight against IS. This too is complicated for the Kingdom community, because when Denmark is at war, the whole kingdom is formally warring, including the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but no one asks what you mean up north. In 2003, when Denmark went to war on the basis of a narrow parliamentary majority, on an illegal basis, on false assumptions and with fatal consequences, the Faroe Islands were opposed, but it was not taken note of anywhere. The government did not ask what the Faroe Islands meant until they made the Faroe Islands a formally warring country. It's not okay. As long as Denmark bears the costs and puts forward with the soldiers, war participation must of course be Denmark's decision, but it should at least be stated in the decision itself whether the Faroe Islands support or not when Denmark goes to war without it being under NATO auspices. It didn't in 2003, and it didn't now. That is not good enough, and I am pleased to note that my new colleague from Greenland, Mr. Johan Lund Olsen agrees, as he said a moment ago. Hopefully, on this point, we can correct a mistake in the way the Kingdom community works. At the same time as the countries are different, the boundaries between the three systems should preferably be as few as possible. The whole parliament agrees with this, and that is why the resolution by the North Atlantic to remove border barriers in the Kingdom community was unanimously adopted in the spring. But most, not all, of the practical work is missing. I hope and believe that we will be able to work constructively with the government in the spring. The visionary decision on concrete action should not end up as an empty proclamation of intentions. I have repeatedly referred to the problem that the level of knowledge among many Danes is equally low when it comes to the Faroe Islands, at the latest in the debate on the Kingdom Community in this Chamber. The Prime Minister has acted on the basis of this and, in agreement with the Ministry of Education, new teaching material on both the Faroe Islands and Greenland is now being produced. I'd like to sign for that, too. Sir. Edmund Joensen mentioned the other specific things that I am not going to repeat now, which are also working well. Finally, I would like to say that the relocation to Denmark, as we know, is a major challenge in the Faroe Islands, but there are also some Faroese people who, without wishing to do so, are condemned to Denmark. These are the prisoners who get sentences in more than a year. Fortunately, there are not many of them in the Faroe Islands, but they get double punishment, and that is not right. The prison service is a Danish matter, and Denmark has just invested in a new prison in Nuuk. This is a great step forward, but at the same time it has been announced that the old military building up in the Faroese mountains, which was used as a temporary solution, as the old prison had to be evacuated due to mold, must now be made permanent. Neither the building nor the location is in order, and the solution means that too many foremen must be sent to Denmark to serve. I have said this before, but I would like to repeat it at the end of today. It is not okay that Faroese prisoners as the only ones in Denmark's realm should continue to serve punishment so far from home that it is really a double punishment. It's going well. Cooperation and the relationship between the kingdom parts are working well at the moment, but there are still things we can do a little better. I look forward to participating in that. Thank you for your cooperation to all parties of the Folketing, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202540	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202543	Yeah, and thanks for a good speech. I would just like to point out that I share the rapporteur's position in the statement on the conflict between Russia, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and I would like to emphasise that this is also the case with Mr Tugendhat's report. Edmund Joensen's remark that, of course, I fully recognize the Faroe Islands' right to express their views on foreign policy issues, also on a different line from that of Denmark. I guess that's worth emphasising. The rapporteur then says, on this difficult issue of Denmark's participation in war, that the way it is going is not satisfactory. Then my question is whether the rapporteur has given some thought to what form we shall then find, because there is no doubt in law, and I think the rapporteur also recognises this: it is the decision of the Folketing, and then we will bind the whole Kingdom community if there is a majority in favour of going to war. That's the law about it. But how can we improve cooperation in this respect? Does the rapporteur have any concrete ideas on how to find a form in which the Faroe Islands and Greenland feel better in relation to that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202657-2	So, the legitimacy of the system as it is now, are the two candidates for parliament. It can be said that the Faroe Islands are represented where the decision is taken, ergo the Faroe Islands have been asked. But first of all, we do not represent the whole of the Faroe Islands. There is a parliament in the Faroe Islands which has been elected to represent the Faroe Islands. And even if you and I are against it, Denmark can go to war and thus the Faroe Islands also go to war, right? So that's not good enough. The right way to do that is that Denmark, if Denmark decides to go to war, at least if it is without NATO, will contact the Faroese authorities and ask: Do you support this or do you not support it? Then it is included in the resolution: Denmark is now going to war, but the Faroe Islands are opposed. Because even if we do not pay for it and do not send out soldiers, the Faroe Islands are formally warring, and it is bullshit to be warring against its will, especially when it is, as it was in 2003, when the war was illegal, on a false basis and with very fatal consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202753	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202754	Thank you. Well, I totally recognize the problem. Well, that's one way to do it. I could foresee an answer, an argument, and it is not necessarily my own that said: 'Well, you are represented in the Defence Committee and the Foreign Policy Name, and there you can write it into the report if there is something you disagree with. Do we not have the formal framework we need to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202825	I do not think that the parliamentary representation is enough to legitimise it. I believe that there is a system in the Faroe Islands which elects a parliament which expresses the opinion of the people or society. That is where the intention is expressed. My party only represents 20%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is a question of giving the Faroe Islands a chance to express themselves. And it would also mean that in the Faroe Islands a greater international responsibility was taken, that there was an international discussion in Lattinget about what our position on this is, what our recommendation to Denmark in this case is. That would also benefit and mature the Faroese political system on the international stage, I believe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202909	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009202915	Thank you. After all, the Faroe Islands have their own Lagting, their own local government, and in the same way Greenland has its own government. So there's really nothing wrong with them giving their opinion. It can then be said that conditions are different in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because you have no military duty, you have no army, no weapons of war, and no money has been set aside for anything of this kind, nor are there any aid measures that should subsequently be put into effect. So my suggestion is that the national government and the government speak together, and if the Faroe Islands and Greenland are to speak, then they do so in that way, because the decision has to be taken on an enlightened basis. This can only be done through the Danish system, which has all these advantages to make a real decision. Otherwise, we always have the UN, which the Faroe Islands and Greenland can rely on and support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203044	There is no defence costs in the Faroe Islands, nor is there a military obligation in the Faroe Islands, and I therefore believe that the Faroe Islands should not have a right of veto. If Denmark decides to go to war outside NATO, we should not have the right of veto in this respect. But, as I said, we're gonna be formally warring anyway. One is when a country is at war, because then the whole country is a formal warrior, and that is why we should be able to make a statement in that situation. After all, it happened in 2003 that the Greenland Parliament and the Faroese Parliament decided that they were against the war, but they were nevertheless involved as a formal warrior. That's unfortunate. How is that supposed to happen? It's like sir. Edmund Joensen says that if there is an information about the basis of the Danish system to the Faroese system, where you can then make a decision on an enlightened basis, then that is good enough. Then you make a statement. The problem is that the statement doesn't end anywhere. It is not listed anywhere outside the Faroe Islands or Greenland. It is not going to be anywhere in connection with the decision itself, what is meant in the other two parts of the realm, and that is a mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203149	Does Edmund Joensen want a second round? No, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203154	It is interesting that the military service is mentioned. I have always believed that Faroese men and Greenlandic men should serve as military service. While I was in the Navy, there were many forefathers and many Greenlanders, especially on the ships. It's about to ebb out, I understand there's not many left. It was the case with military service that in the old days it would not be given to what was called colonial people, because they were afraid that they would resort to arms. Now that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands have gained autonomy, isn't it about time, frankly, that Faroese men start to do their duty and serve as military service?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203235	This is, of course, a discussion. I believe quite clearly that the Faroe Islands and Greenland should take responsibility on an international basis • clearly more than they do today. But if it was the case that in the two kingdoms, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, one had to finance the defence and quietly with crews, then one should also have more to say. In fact, I believe that we should have a kind of direct influence on the decision taken in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203258	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203301	I kind of agree with that. This also means that there will be other rights in the area of common defence when it comes to the defence of the Kingdom Community, but that is something we can talk about. I just think it would be an incredibly friendly gesture on the part of the Faroe Islands Latting that they said: of course we should also serve our military service here, especially when there are plenty of the fleet vessels that we have that travel around the Faroe Islands and around Greenland, and we spend a lot of money, a lot of time, a lot of energy on it, and so especially, because unfortunately there are fewer and fewer volunteering. There are cousins with, and also Greenlanders, both in the fleet and in the army, but that is not very many. So I'd like to ask Mr. Sjúrður Skaale to take home the call that it is now also time for the Faroe Islands to do their military duty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203404	I would like to raise that discussion, but it is a different discussion about the fact that one should also have something to say. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203413	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the rapporteur's line, and so we move on to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009203440	The Folketing is open; we are in the process, and it really feels really nice that we are all back. We even got one part of the Left Presidency on the platform, and then we know that it has been a very special day in Danish politics. We open the Folketing at a time when things are going better in Denmark. Three years ago, Denmark was in the middle of an economic crisis. Today, deep crisis has turned to prosperity. Several people have entered work and unemployment has fallen. We are in the process, but we are not in the finish line, and we have important tasks in the new parliamentary year: better secondary schools, 5 billion. kr. to strengthen health, faster cancer treatment, a safer everyday life for people with dementia. We have set a clear course for a united Denmark. Unfortunately, in today's debate, it cannot be said that much news has emerged about opposition policy. Well, that's what you would have hoped for, not least because Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen struck a powerful blow a few years ago that the opposition is obliged to present a coherent plan, or as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said in 2010: It makes no sense to have a discussion about economic policy in the Folketing when only government policy is known. In 2010 an opposition without a plan was thus noisy silence, secret shelling plans and a lot of controversy. Time was probably someone else then. But today's debate has certainly not made us wiser at the level of the Left, but there are some old themes that have been established. Left will zero growth, and they will solve any imaginable and unthinkable problem of lower taxes. And the Danish People's Party wants more welfare and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister. So far, so well known, but where is the context? Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is always liberatingly honest and says things plainly, namely that the Liberal Alliance wants a completely different Denmark from what we have today, with huge tax cuts, massive cuts in welfare, user fees when you are ill and have to go to the doctor I think that DKK 130. was mentioned. That is called a small sum, but it is a sum with a clear social battle side, I would add, because who is the doctor most? It's certainly not the richest Danes, and contrary to that, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has expressed himself in the past, so I don't think people go to a doctor just to talk. I do not recognize the negative picture at all, as Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll needs to draw from Denmark. When you listen to Mr. Knox... Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, one would almost think that Denmark is not one of the ten countries in the world with the highest rating, namely an AAA rating. Otherwise, it should impress a party that has such good banking relations as the Liberal Alliance has. Mrs Lene Espersen's speech today confirms the image I have been given by the Conservative People's Party here recently, namely that the Conservative People's Party is thinking more about the free market and less about the coherence of all of us. It is as if they have said goodbye to caring for the whole, away with responsibility for future generations, away with large parts of the law on plans, as Mrs Lene Espersen said here today. Then I can actually better recognise the Conservative People's Party in their wishes for the Finance Act, namely lower taxes on the richest in our society and the total abolition of deductions for trade union quotas. That is to say, higher taxes for ordinary employees and less common welfare, where is the social responsibility of the Conservatives? Well, there's just the defense that needs more money: 15 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. And I'm really excited to find out where they're gonna be found, because the Conservatives are probably still a party that thinks the money should fit. Sir. Tom Behnke has then said that it must be financed by zero growth in public consumption. Well, well, well. I think it's gonna be really hard when Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen will spend the same money to give tax relief. Well, that certainly doesn't sound convincing. Then there was mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's speech, and there of course I listened attentively, as I always do, but especially today. What I was listening to was of course the answer... we always do... but I was also listening to if there were any questions. I have to say that I am surprised that neither Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl or anyone else in the Danish People's Party had a single question to the Left about what their zero growth will mean for the Danes. Not one. Not one question as to how the Left will guarantee the benefit recipients. Not a single question. The left will spend money on tax breaks, they say. What does the Danish People's Party actually say about that? Strangely enough, they don't say anything. The Danish People's Party believes that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen wants to ensure proper payroll rules for employees? In fact, one cannot help but think that it is not so crucial for the Danish People's Party. This is actually very clear, because we must remember that the Danish People's Party itself has invented and adopted unemployment benefit reform. What did they do? With a snap, they halved the daily allowance period and doubled the recovery requirement. Since then, they have thought that the recovery requirement should be changed, they have thought that the phasing-in should be changed, and they have thought that we should have a business-based benefit system. It is actually a bit funny when you consider that the Kristian Thulesen Dahl reform was introduced in a time of crisis that the economy-based system has now been reached. The truth about the Danish People's Party in relation to the daily allowance is basically that they have had every conceivable view. Meanwhile, the government, SF and Enhedslisten have acted. What have we done? We have ensured a more reasonable phasing-in because we do not want to leave people behind. I have not received any concrete answers from the Danish People's Party today, because basically the Danish People's Party has only one position, one position, one case, yes, even one pre-requisite, and that never changes. One requirement is there, and that is that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will be prime minister. These are the only demands of the Danish People's Party. I would actually go so far as to say that it is the only ultimate in Danish politics and, at the same time, probably also the only point where the Danish People's Party and the Left are then one hundred percent in agreement. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked about the content of the government's proposal on border control. Let me be quite clear before any misunderstandings arise: the government's proposal is not a re-establishment of the border barriers they introduced earlier, because the border barriers of the previous government were actually obsolete before they were even introduced. Old-fashioned border controls are not an effective solution to the challenges we are facing now. If we are to combat illegal immigration and cross-border crime, we need quite different means than old-fashioned customs controls. I heard it this way, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen today wishes that we had maintained the border controls of the VKO administration, which were the border barriers. I have to admit, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said it, it surprised me somewhat. In fact, I think that many people in the Left are surprised that this should be the case, because apart from all the other things that the good Left people have had to finance over the last few years, there was also a large-scale advertising campaign before the European Parliament elections. It was a big-bought and handsome campaign. It has certainly not been cheap and it asked a clear and leading question, and that was, and I quote from the Left campaign: Do you think a border boom is the most effective defense against criminal aliens? You had to understand in that campaign that it was definitely not. So at that time Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and the Left in no doubt, and I would just like to say that the government agrees with what the Left meant at the time in relation to the EP elections. That is why we have decided to go a completely different way. We are rethinking and future securing police control in the Danish border areas. We are introducing better and more targeted controls. We are giving the police the tools to carry out precisely the checks that they themselves believe can produce results. In the past, police controls have had to be based on concrete suspicions. Now we are giving the police access to control on the basis of more general intelligence and, as a new thing, we are also giving the police the possibility of preventive controls to prevent crime and illegal immigration. We don't want old-fashioned border barriers. We actually thought that the Left had left it. We want modern and targeted control. In Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's speech today I was particularly aware that we have still not received an answer to key questions. How will the Left ensure zero growth year after year? Yeah, we've been asking about it all the time today. Many have asked, but we didn't get any closer, or you can judge for yourself whether you think we got closer to it, for sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said that something must be prioritised, and something must be prioritised down. That's what we were told by Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen today. It wasn't much else. In many ways, the most surprising thing that happened today was that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen came to say zero growth when he asked a question, rather than spending a stop. I think he's gonna have to get past the left ticket box after that round. But let us now call a spade a spade and concentrate on the content: what is it like with zero growth? What does that mean? Yeah, there's more of us wondering about that. It may be the greatest mystery and there are many other Danish politics. I would like to quote a politician who, fortunately, is here in the Chamber this evening. He said: It is difficult to see through what is happening in year 2 or year 5 or year 7 in relation to the long-term goal of zero growth. It's hard to see where to take the money from. And no, it wasn't sir. Bjarne Corydon, or Mrs Maja Panduro, who said that, it was Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and that was a comment on the Left Finance Act. It could not have been said better, and I have to say: Dear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, I also find it very difficult to see. More specifically, if we take the initiative or ambitions of the Left in the field of health, it shows what the Danes risk with zero growth. Left says they'll spend more money on health. So will the government. With the Left's zero growth, you might be able to finance more health spending in the first year. The first year can then be cut back on aid to poor countries and on cash aid. I'm sure you can find a way to do that with the Danish People's Party. But what about the following year and the following year? Is it the elderly who have to pay, or are they the children? We don't know the answer. Now at least one should think that the Left would make an effort to make the first year of zero growth stick together. They have said that they think it is important. But even the Left did not succeed in their Finance Act. Again we do not have to assess it ourselves, we can just ask the Left's own hinterland: Claus Omann Jensen, Mayor of Randers, Mikael Klitgaard, Mayor of Brønderslev. You say clear, clear and clear stop, the Left cannot fetch 1.5 billion. kr. in municipalities and regions next year. Yeah, the Mayor of Brønderslev says it's gonna be utopia. I think that is a good Jysk way of saying that it simply cannot be done. I still hope that the Left will give the electorate an explanation before an election. Where's the Left going to cut down? The government, on the other hand, has a plan, not only for this year, but also for the coming years. We have simply planned economic policy so that every year we have extra money to improve our welfare. And that is why we can produce results in welfare, in our education and in our hospitals. It's not luxury we have. We cannot spend money on everything, but we have chosen to strengthen common health. Today the waiting time for operations is lower than ever. There has been some confusion about that in the Left, but that is the way it is. And then I'm gonna use one of your mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's old favorite adversaries, which is that they are simply lower than on any day at any time under the previous government. And we can do all that because we don't want to experiment with zero growth. I have also listened to the Left's reply on tax policy. Well, the government will spend money on welfare, the Left will give tax relief. I think we've come this far. But there is no plan as to how the tax policy of the Left is to be put together, and we have not come any closer to that today. But then it is the case that when you cannot get a clear answer, you have to look at what the Left has done in the past and what they have meant in the past, and then you can try to piece it together. When the Left had the opportunity, they lowered the treasure to the top and gilded especially the very richest in our society. They did so together with the Danish People's Party, and this simply means that a top director can make more than DKK 100,000. more in your pocket every year after VKO's latest tax reform. And when the tax agreement was negotiated in 2012 • 2012 is not so long ago • The Left was in no way busy getting the employment allowance on the field. Nah, they came happy and suggested reliefs in the top tax. The confusion is quite simply total, and if we have not seen a concrete proposal from the Left, yes, then we have to guess what the Left wants. And one of the things that the Left in any case talks a lot about is that there are people who get too little out of going to work. If, for example, we do not know what to do. must halve the group of people who are occupied by the Left by those who receive less than DKr 2,000. out of going to work... how much does the tax at the bottom really have to change? What are we talking about here? I think it is important to get some figures on the table, and the Left does not give them. We're talking about a billion. kr.? We're talking about 5 billion. kr.? No; then we have to increase the employment allowance for 20 billion. kr. Left says they'll find that money in the cash aid ceiling. That's how you have to understand Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen today. But all we have to say here is that VK's old ceiling on cash benefits does not go far, because we do not know the new ceiling of 80 million. kr. Yeah, it's a good one: 80 million. kr. And I just want to say that from 80 million. kr. to 20 billion. kr. I think there's some way to go. So, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will finance tax cuts in part by reducing the ceiling on cash benefits; I think I quote him correctly. And I'm just gonna call on Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen to put many thick lines under what was paid, for it is after all a microscopic tiny part. How would it suit the Left to tell the big party in Denmark how it should all be together? It's not enough with point marks. We would actually like to know: what is it that the Left promises the Danes? And, of course, we have not received the answer today. However, we have two things made clear. Firstly, there is no extra money for welfare. Outwardly, every extra crown should go for tax relief. It is actually very good to get it in place, and then they can chew over at Dansk Folkeparti on how they feel about it. Secondly, we have also sensed for the first time that the Left itself knows very well that it is wrong not to have a plan when it has actually always been said that it will come before a choice. Yeah, actually, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen at a weak moment here on the platform to say that the government's economic plan is the Left's economic plan. Yeah, that's what he actually said. Then you could fall into believing that it is a sign of becoming an easy parliamentary year. It's almost too good to be true, and I think it is. But the truth is simple. The government has a plan, and the only thing that the Left has is loose ends and no answers at all and, of course, the announcement that something has to be prioritised and something else has to be prioritised down. Yes, that was the most clear message from the Left today. Today, too, we have had a lot of debate and, of course, rightly so about the rules on asylum. This is an important issue. There is no doubt that we are in an extraordinary situation. There are historically many people fleeing because of war and strife in the world and, according to the United Nations, for the first time since World War II there are more than 50 million people fleeing. We can feel that in Denmark too. It is clear that the increasing number of asylum seekers entails increasing costs, and that is why we need to act. The government will introduce a new temporary protection for those who are fleeing, for example. civil war, and we will restrict access to family reunification. The government is presenting concrete solutions to a specific problem, and I have to say that I am surprised that today the Left is using its speaking time to criticise the government instead of putting forward proposals for solutions. One might get the impression that there are some rapporteurs from the Left who have not even discovered what is going on in the world. Yes, that must be the case if we can seriously be in the misconception that the large number of asylum seekers that we now have is due to the fact that we have ensured that people seeking asylum in Denmark have the opportunity to take up a job, or that this is due to the 31 points that are constantly referred to and where there are many errors in that reference too, when, moreover, it has nothing whatsoever to do with the right to asylum. But having said all that, I must understand the debate in such a way that the Left will support the government's proposals, even though the Left's legal rapporteur, who is not Mr. Anyone, sir. Karsten Lauritzen has questioned whether the government's proposals are contrary to international conventions. But now, he said that the day before yesterday, and today the Left is included, and that is positive, because we need to act as the situation now is. In this serious situation, I do not want to hide the fact that we are facing a great challenge, not least in our municipalities and in our asylum centres, and the question is, I think, simply too important and too serious for it to be the subject of political teasing. Then I would say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mr. Finn Sørensen, that I am really glad that they, like the government, are concerned about developing the welfare and security of Denmark. After all, we have a common goal that Denmark should get out of the crisis with our solidarity and our community intact. And yes, there is Finn Sørensen saying this from the platform, because then it sounds as if the Enhedslisten is at least sometimes a little fond of the results we have produced together. Together, we have also ensured a smoother phasing-in of the unemployment benefit reform, which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl conducted with the Left. We have secured the right to education and a temporary labour market benefit; it simply means a subsidy for more than 40,000 people. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr and Mr. Finn Sørensen has today raised the issue of daily allowances, and I understand that, because the allowance system agreed between the Left and the Conservatives is not good enough. The Government has therefore also set up an unemployment benefit commission to propose a longer-term solution in the area of unemployment benefits. We have also asked the Disability Commission to work more quickly so that, after the next elections, the Folketing can start negotiating a new benefit system. The government, SF and Enhedslisten have made a lot of good decisions together, and I am sure that we will also do so in the coming parliamentary year. I would also like to express my gratitude for the debate on the things that are moving in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and in this connection I would like to welcome Mr Seligman back. Johan Lund Olsen, and also thanks for the constructive approach to our cooperation. I take note of the fact that many things have been mentioned which I think have been good, and I would like to express my support for that. Mrs Doris Jakobsen raises the question of voluntary Greenlandic preparedness. It is a question of how Greenland can be involved in the tasks that the Ministry of Defence solves in Greenland. This is, of course, part of the Department of Defense's analysis work on the Arctic task solution. Mrs Doris Jakobsen also mentions the municipal officers in Greenland. There is no doubt that the municipal officers are doing an important job in the local community and that the police in Greenland are paying particular attention to the conditions of the municipal officers. Both, sir. Johan Lund Olsen and Mrs Doris Jakobsen mention the socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark, and I understand that. After all, we have set aside a total of 13.4 million with the 2013 rate pool. kr. over the next four years to the strategy for action for vulnerable Greenlanders and their children in Denmark, and I am very pleased that the efforts we have in relation to vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark will be endorsed. Thank you. To Mr. Edmund Joensen, we are very pleased that we have jointly identified the border barriers that exist, which are something that Mr. Edmund Joensen has been busy for a few years. This also means that together we can move forward on the specific issues that we need to address. In addition, Mr. Edmund Joensen also something that he has gone up for a long time, and this is the financial regulation with regard to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. To this I would say that SIFIs must be designated for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In other words, once the latest EU regulation has been implemented in the financial legislation for the Faroe Islands and Greenland, we can get it started. Both, sir. Johan Lund Olesen and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale was aware of the involvement of the Faroe Islands and Greenland in resolutions on armed conflicts. To this I would like to say that it is the case that Denmark's participation in armed conflicts must be dealt with here in the Folketing. But at the same time it is also the case that, before we take decisions, there is a debate in the mention; there is an opportunity for debate here in Parliament, and it is also the case that we naturally give the Home Rule Government of Greenland and the Faroe Islands an orientation. Basically, I would like to thank you for Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's receipt for the good cooperation; there are things you can do better, but I think we got a pass. I think we got that from all the North Atlantic members, and I am actually very, very pleased about that. Today and this evening we have had the last opening debate before an election, and I have to say that I had probably expected that today we would have seen a greater common ground from the four parties in the opposition. But it is also the case that no matter how many times we have asked, we have not learned what a common bourgeois policy is. On the other hand, the government's course is quite clear: we are pursuing a balanced policy in which we support growth and jobs; we can afford to improve welfare and, at the same time, we are pursuing a responsible fiscal policy. We are simply on the right track; deep crisis has turned to progress, more are in work, fewer are unemployed. But, of course, there are still new tasks ahead of us here in the Danish Parliament, which is why I would like to conclude by saying that I am very much looking forward to the new parliamentary year. I hope that this will be a good cooperation with all the parties of the Folketing, as was the case in the last parliamentary year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210247	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the brief remarks, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210255	Thank you. The price is fixed, but where does it lead and at what rate? I would like to sign that the Prime Minister is so persistently spending all his time, no matter where the Prime Minister is acting, criticising the Left and taking an interest in our policy, a perseverance without equal, which probably conceals the fact that it is usually the case that the Prime Minister is inspired. Now the government programme has been exhausted and we have heard an opening speech on Tuesday, where there is no relation whatsoever to the fact that growth has been lost in our society, not a single new initiative. The Prime Minister is Prime Minister of a government where the starting point for the government is the economic policy of the VK government in the broadest sense. It's true that we stuck it out. And now it's emptied, and apparently the Prime Minister is desperate for new inspiration. We'd be happy to give it to you. We think that more growth initiatives are needed. We think that we need to tighten up the immigration policy. We think we need to take further steps on top of the tax reforms we have made in order to increase the benefit of going to work. Then the Prime Minister is trying this scare picture of zero growth again. That's where I'm gonna ask you a question. When the Prime Minister last had a plan as an opposition, it was, of course, that there should be a welfare promise in the municipalities. Could the Prime Minister tell us all what happened? In the last financial year, do the municipalities spend more or less money on service than was the case when the Prime Minister became Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210433	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210435	There are many things to answer or comment on at least. It is true that I am a very persistent person, and I think I will continue to be. It is also because you have to be persistent about the Left, because it is so difficult to get answers. What is so mysterious is that before the elections I have been in for so many years now a plan was demanded by the former opposition. There was no parliamentary debate where no plan and no overall plan were required for the four parties and one and the other. When we do it today, it's all wrong. We have completely misunderstood what politics is really about and what parties can be asked to do by demanding a plan. But it is not too much to ask that the Left, which will introduce zero growth in Denmark, an experiment that we have not tried for a long period of time, lays down a plan rather than how it should be implemented. That's not too much to ask. And it is not too much to ask that the Left, who will spend all the money on tax cuts, tells the Danes exactly how the tax cuts are to be distributed. I think it's something mysterious that you don't want to lay out a plan. Then there is this discussion about the municipalities, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also asks about. Well, it is the case that the agreement for next year means 300 million. kr. extra for the municipal service compared to last year. We also had a good debate on this last time we met in Parliament. At that time it was very, very difficult to convince the President of the Left that this was the case, but the fact is that the municipalities will be given a boost next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210611	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210612	It's after they've been cut. After all, the truth about this case is that last year the municipalities together had 1 billion. kr. less consumption on the service framework than in 2011 • 1 billion. kr. less. There are 60 municipalities out there which, if they had been subject to a freeze on expenditure rather than the negative growth that they had to suffer from under this government, would have had more money for consumption. So when the Prime Minister says there is no experiment, yes, we are witnessing it, and the Prime Minister has led it. That's fair enough, but it's just a little thought-provoking that at the same time you have to run around and scare with it. I just want to ask you a question. Prior to the last elections, the Prime Minister promised before she became Prime Minister that there would be a welfare promise and that more money would be added to the municipalities. They even toured the country and had precise amounts of how much more money it was the municipality of the municipality of the municipality. So it turned into minus 1 billion. kr. 60 municipalities with less money than they had. And then I just ask quite quietly: now that the Prime Minister is putting forward that we have to repeat the same conflict as last time it was welfare or tax relief, and now it's welfare or tax freeze... and the Prime Minister will again promise the municipalities more money, what is it that makes the municipalities this time believe in the Prime Minister's promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210728	I just need to remind you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen about two things. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has just presented a draft budget for this year saying that the first thing you want to do is open the budgets in the municipalities and draw 1.5 billion. kr. That's a saving in the municipalities. How do you think it feels in the municipalities? I also think that is why there are excellent Left Mayors out there who say that this is not possible. There's a mayor from Brønderslev who calls it a utopia. I think that means it can't be done. So it is the Left that is proposing that we save in the municipalities. All we need to do is get the numbers straight. It is true that we promised better service, and we have ensured that too, because we have ensured that there are approx. 10 billion kr. more to the public service today than it was in 2011. If the Left had got what they wanted with their zero growth, then there would have been zero more crowns. That's how zero growth works. So don't tell the municipalities that they wanted more money with a left-wing government. They just wanted even less money than they have today. I recognise that the municipalities have been through a hard time, but they would have had an even harder time, and the Liberal Finance Bill illustrates this with all due clarity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210850	The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009210855	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a little commitment to what we others have said during the day, and perhaps a little regret that the Prime Minister forgot to answer one of the questions I asked the Prime Minister myself, even though I was trying to get in touch along the way, and this is what the asylum policy is all about. Will the Prime Minister stand before the table to negotiate a national compromise on the reform of asylum policy? I fully agree with the Prime Minister that when you are faced with over 50 million refugees in the world, the highest number since the Second World War, when you are faced with some dramatic situations that the United Nations characterises as some of the most serious in at least a very, very long time, it requires extraordinary action. And when we see that there are refugee camps around neighbouring areas to the war areas, where there are 130,000-150,000 refugees, which are therefore being tried to help in the neighbourhood, then it makes sense to say that the Danish side is saying that this is where you are helping. It is also in order to avoid what I can probably get the Prime Minister to confirm that she also agrees with me today, namely that asylum shopping is taking place between the different countries. This means that the refugees or asylum seekers who can afford to do this asylum shopping can speculate about getting to the right place for them, but there are many of their countrymen left, and perhaps they were the ones we should be thinking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211017	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211019	It is absolutely true that when there are so many fleeing, there is also pressure in Denmark. It has always been our policy, and I think it has also been the policy of previous governments that we should help in the neighbourhood. We need to help in the neighbourhood, and we are spending a lot of money on that too. Denmark also has a leading role in some of the actions we have in the neighbourhood. It's by far the best. But we are also in a situation where not everyone stays in the neighbourhood, and then some come to Denmark and knock on our door. We can handle that, but we also need to be vigilant and concrete, and that is why the government has proposed some tightenings, among other things. in relation to the length of time at first you get a residence permit and also when you can get your family here. I'd always like to talk to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, but I think that the most important thing now is not to sit down and spend time on a long-term national compromise, it is to get started with that legislation and get it adopted as soon as possible. I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in saying that there is a difference between the rules that apply when some come to the north of Europe, because we do not have borders with any of the countries where there are many refugees. So I think there is a certain difference between the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211135	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211137	Yes, well, I would like to stress that we are very impatient and we really cannot really understand it. After all, the Prime Minister can urgently call in the Danish Parliament and in a week's time, from the start to the end, get the Danish Parliament's strong support to send out F-16 planes and risk the lives of Danish soldiers to work for justice, for fairness. Why, then, is it that when it comes to intervening, what we agree to do and tighten the rules, the Prime Minister announces that there will be a proposal in a month's time. Well, I mean, this is something the government has been working on for a few weeks now. It was only announced back in September that some restrictions would have been made, that some of them would have been uncertain about what they would be, that they would have changed the family reunification rules along the way, and then the law catalogue announced that in a month's time there would be a bill. Can the Prime Minister confirm that all those who come to Denmark before that bill comes are under the old rules? Can the Prime Minister confirm that, moreover, this bill will be such that if you look at it in relation to the Syrians who have arrived and imagine that the same Syrians would then come afterwards, then more than two thirds of those who come would still be covered by the old rules? It's just to get an overview of the size of the austerity the government is working on in this area at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211255	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211257	Finally, if we are to discuss what can be done quickly, I believe that the government's proposals can go a little faster than the slightly far-reaching proposals of the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance that we should set up asylum camps in countries such as Lebanon or Israel or wherever it may be. I think our proposal can go a little faster and have a faster effect. I also have to say that it was a proposal that the former Left Government had with it from the very beginning in 2001. It took them 10 years to think about it and they didn't get it implemented. This also suggests that it was probably not such a serious proposal. But to Mr. I would like to say that Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question is a complicated proposal, it is complex changes that we are putting forward now, and that is why I think it is reasonable for us to carry out a sensible consultation process. It must, of course, be done properly. But we expect to be quick we are as fast as we can be at all because it is clear that the sooner we can get this legislation through, the better it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211351	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jonas Dahl, next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211356	First of all, I would like to sign for the Prime Minister's collection, but I would also like to go back a little to the opening speech that the Prime Minister gave here on Tuesday. The Prime Minister once again stated that the unemployment benefit reform is junk. This is positive, but it is not very forward-looking, which is why I would really like to go deeper into that part. We now have the opportunity to make some concrete improvements. There is a broad majority in the Folketing for example. a shorter recovery requirement for daily allowances, which is why we could also make a solution today or tomorrow if the Prime Minister so wished. That is why it is also appropriate for the Prime Minister to make it clear what a vote on the Socialists means after a given parliamentary election. Will the Prime Minister be at the head of a new government without providing permanent improvements in the area of unemployment benefit, which includes a shorter recovery period and a longer period of unemployment benefit than 2 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211448	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211449	I do not think the time has come for premature changes in relation to daily allowances. I have to say, I think we have once too much changed the benefit system in this way in a hurry. After all, it was Kristian Thulesen Dahl's reform that was carried out very quickly, also in the midst of a time of crisis, and we have all seen the consequences of it. At that time we were told that there were 3-4,000 who would fall out. It was neither 3,000 nor 4,000, it was 40,000 who used up their daily allowance rights, and we have others then and again receipt for SF and Enhedslisten That's why we have to take our time. We must listen to the benefit commission that we have set up together, and this time create a system of daily allowances that is fair and fair, where fewer people fall out of the system, and of course also with as broad support as possible here in the Danish Parliament. That is precisely what makes it long-lasting, and that is what gives security to the individual. That is what we need for the unemployed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211549	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211551	Well, the Prime Minister has once again stated that the unemployment benefit reform is not very good, and we agree on that. It has now been four and a half years since its adoption, so there has also been time for thought, one might say. But the government then refuses to act now, and we can then have our discussions about why. But one must also say that there is massive support from SF, Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti and, most recently, according to Politiken, a unified trade union movement to actually do something. I also think it is fair that the Prime Minister should begin to deal with what we should look at after a given parliamentary election. So it's a little strange that it's obviously a secret what the Socialists want after an election. Will the Prime Minister be at the head of a new government without providing permanent improvements in the area of unemployment benefit, which includes a shorter recovery period and a longer period of unemployment benefit than 2 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211637	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211639	Now I can hear that mr. Jonas Dahl collects the Danish People's Party to ensure that they want to vote for all possible changes. But what exactly does the Danish People's Party think? They have invented this reform with the brutal phasing-in, they have taken every conceivable view of the daily allowance, so I can be a little in doubt about how much you can count on the Danish People's Party. However, there should be no doubt about the position of the Social Democrats on this. We want a new benefit system. We want an allowance system that will provide greater security. What does that mean? This means that fewer people should fall out of the benefit system, and if, at this time, the Danish People's Party holds on to what they say now, then there should be very good opportunities to get a new benefit system after the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211723	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211727	The Prime Minister said in his speech that the only ultimate in Danish politics is that Mr. Thulesen Dahl would like to do Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen to Prime Minister. I think that was a wonderful message, because it must mean that what the Prime Minister came home from the summer holidays and said, namely that finding a sustainable solution to the unemployment benefit problem in the context of the budget negotiations was not the ultimate solution. So that's good, Prime Minister. It's the cash benefits I'd like to ask about. The government's excuse for not finding a viable solution to the problem was that a commission had been set up. But that commission is bound on its hands because it has been told that it can only come up with a solution which maintains the right-wing cuts. This means that if you want to make improvements in one place, for example. By making it easier to reclaim the allowance, you have to cut down somewhere else, for example. by making a lower daily allowance. I was given a rather woolly answer when I asked Mrs Panduro, so now I ask the Prime Minister: can the Social Democrats guarantee that the Social Democrats do not add votes to an unemployment benefit reform that cuts the benefit benefits either for everyone or for some people for a period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211854	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009211856	I am very pleased that we have set up the Disability Commission because there are so many questions about how to actually set up a modern benefit system that ensures security, but of course also does not become so expensive that we cannot deal with it, and perhaps most importantly, help the unemployed back into the labour market. For let us keep a cool head in this benefit discussion and remember that the most important thing for the unemployed is not to be on unemployment benefits but to get a job. That is why the government has implemented two growth packages, because getting a job is the most important of all. I am very comfortable with the Supplements Commission, also because the social partners are part of the Supplements Commission. This means, for example, that some of the proposals that have come from the LO today can come into the benefit commission because Harald Børsting is there and can help discuss these issues. So this is the right way to do it. This will open the way for us to have a good benefit system that we can all support, and that is what the unemployed need most: security and predictability.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212003	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212005	I've never heard a politician in here say that the goal is that people are on cash benefits. I hear everyone saying that we must create jobs; we want people to work. But I have not heard anyone who expects us to have 0 per cent unemployment for the time being, and that is why, of course, we need a proper benefit system. We do not have that at this stage. What I asked was concrete: will the Socialists vote for an unemployment benefit reform which cuts benefits, or will the Socialists not vote for such reform? It then turned into such a woolly thing, just like when I asked Mrs Panduro. But it must be possible for the Danish Social Democrats to answer a very simple question: will you add votes to an allowance reform where you cut the benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212101	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212103	I do not think it is fair for us to set up an allowance commission ourselves to make all sorts of ultimate demands on what we want and do not want. Now we have set up a daily subsistence commission. We have ensured that employees are represented on the benefit commission, and that is why we will now wait for what the benefit commission comes up with, and then we will discuss jointly here in the Folketing how to get a new benefit system. But what has happened, which is interesting and which was not the case after the elections, is that the Danish People's Party has now become opposed to the benefit reform that they themselves helped to introduce. If it lasts 6, 7, 8 months or longer then we will hope that there will be a new unemployment benefit reform after the next election. So we hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212148	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212152	It was a very remarkable speech made by the Prime Minister and it is a little difficult to find out how to react. Should one be flattered by the attention or perhaps just wonder that it seemed as if the National Assembly of the Left was almost over, because it was all about the Left? Why is it that the Prime Minister acts more as a political rapporteur, as if it were under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as prime minister than Prime Minister of a Helle Thorning-Schmidt government? We have wasted three years with this government, and when we ask the Prime Minister, we hear a Prime Minister who does nothing to talk about everyone else and who hopes for the best. I would like to give the Prime Minister a chance to talk a little about his own policy, which is why I would like to come back to the question: when the government is now planning that there should be 17,000 fewer people in employment in the private sector by 2020, who is to be fired, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212257	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212259	I'm gonna have to go back to the first part of sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's introduction, for it was very long. Wasted three years, it's said. Wasted 3 years! You can only think that if you don't care that a typical LO family has received nearly DKK 6,000. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposals have not been accepted by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. If you don't care about all that, that is, that really living people have come into work, then you might well conclude that we have wasted 3 years. Fortunately, many of us are not, so we think we have spent the 3 years quite efficiently to get Denmark going again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212359	We are talking about increased indebtedness with the financial law that has been put forward and otherwise a lot of jumping on the ground. Of course it's nice to have tax breaks, but the rest is jumping on the spot. Then you didn't answer. It was actually a very good trick, but perhaps of the same rhetorical quality as the speech that was given before. 17,000 fewer people in employment over the next six years are the government's plan for the private sector. That's what we're hearing from the finance minister. That is the answer we have received, and we have also been on the Ministry of Finance's website and have been confirmed that this is how the answer and the model should be understood. That is 17,000 fewer in employment in the private sector, Prime Minister. I think the Prime Minister owes the Danes an answer to which companies should cut back, which people should be fired, who in the private sector should be unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212505	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212507	I have to say that I do not know exactly the answer that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll stands by, but I can assure you that one of the government's major tasks is to get more jobs in the private sector all the time. When the crisis hit Denmark, we lost 100,000 jobs. It happened on Lars Løkke Rasmussen's watch. We have been working hard since day one to ensure that we create more jobs in the private sector, and the good news is that it is actually succeeding. More jobs are being created, more people are getting into employment, unemployment is on the way down. That's fantastic news, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212555	Then it is Mrs Lene Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212559	One of the reasons I became conservative was actually the social profile of the Conservatives. Conservatives are neither socialists nor liberals, but we do believe that something must be done for society's vulnerable. The Prime Minister said in his reply that there is a lack of unity in the Conservatives' plan. While the Prime Minister has been on duty, the number of homeless people has increased by 39%. It is the case that over 5,800 people sleep on the streets, in stairwells or anywhere else and have nowhere to be, and this has actually meant that the State auditors here on 21 August have pronounced a harsh criticism of the effort and called it not satisfactory. The Prime Minister says that there is not a whole in the Conservative plan where we set aside 200 million. kr. for crooked houses and two emergency homes. What does the government do, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212703	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212705	I have also always hoped, at least, that the Conservative People's Party would keep the focus on the whole, on social policy, on the green, and one thing for which the government cannot be blamed is to abandon the two areas. We have implemented a social 2020 plan. Why? Yes, because, in the midst of our economic 2020 plan, we will not forget the people who are in the blind spots of society. Are we in the finish line? No, we're not, but we've been preoccupied with the • and that's why we have a social 2020 plan that fewer drug addicts lose their lives, that we take more care of the homeless, that our most vulnerable children are helped better, and that's all we're doing. Now we move on, and I hope once again that the Conservative People's Party will join us with a nature plan for 2020. For our view is that the best and most complete society is one where we both have control of the economy, have social balance and deliver a good nature to the next generation. That is the attitude of the government and the Social Democrats. I regret that the Conservative People's Party has left it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212815	Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212817	I regard that answer as an answer that is really leaning on what the Minister for Social Affairs said, namely that it is the problems of the municipalities, and that is something they have to deal with. And then the 5.820 homeless, who are lying on the street and on the stairs and sleeping, have to wait for a plan that will emerge in 2020 and that may mean, for some, that they can get roofs over their heads. But now that the Prime Minister is talking about the 2020 plan, I actually only have one more question for the Prime Minister: Goes the Prime Minister and the government, i.e.. Social democracy and the Radicals, for elections at the 2020 level we know today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212851	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009212853	Just in order for Mrs Lene Espersen to be fully involved: it is not the case that a 2020 plan is coming up by 2020. That is not the case with 2020 plans. It is an objective that you work towards, so you sort of start now, and then you have some goals you want to achieve by 2020. That's why you have plans like that. I have never heard Mrs Lene Espersen or Conservatives be positive about our social 2020 plan. I just want to remind you that everything we've done for the most socially vulnerable didn't exist. We now have a poverty limit, we have a social 2020 plan, we have abolished the poverty benefits, just to give a few examples of which way we have gone and what we want to go. So I do not believe that the Conservative People's Party has anything whatsoever to let the governing parties hear in this regard. In relation to what we are going to vote on, I can say that I will not say what we are going to vote on; we are not there; we have a great parliamentary year ahead of us; we are very leaning on our own 2020 plan, and in it you can see how we organise economic policy. What is so exciting about this is that you can actually see that we have budgeted for spending around 3 billion each year until 2020. kr. more a year on welfare. And what is so strange, even today, is that we cannot be told either how the Conservatives intend to organise economic policy or how the great Left Party wants to do so. That is what is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213022	Mrs Inger Løbberg for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213025	I would like to ask a few questions about foreign policy, because there can be little doubt that it sails completely. It rushes in with asylum seekers, the government upsets expectations all the time. First it was 7,500 asylum seekers that were expected, then it was 10,000, and then suddenly the other day the government doubled the estimate of how many asylum seekers we get to Denmark. It then caused the Prime Minister to announce in the opening speech that there would be an intervention in the family reunification rules, and it had to be understood that it was very urgent, as we agreed in the Left. Then, of course, it is surprising that it is waiting for it; it is probably not going to be adopted on this side of Christmas. That's one. The second is that it is far too little. So what is coming is far too late and far too little. But today we have also been called into question by what we can expect from the intervention in the family reunification rules that is coming. Because if you listen to the Minister for Justice, it is a proposal for something that must be permanent, that is to say it is something that must continue, but if you listen to the Radical Left, it is something that is temporary. So, my teaching skills simply aren't enough to mediate and figure this out, so now the Prime Minister has to try to intervene, as it is after all the Prime Minister who is in charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213200	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213202	I have noticed this tendency in the Left that if we propose or do something that is good, it is actually the Left's own policy. This has also been the case with this tightening in relation to asylum seekers. If we are to be completely honest: when we look at what the Left actually proposed when they came up with their foreigners' initiative here after the summer break, we have to see that there was nothing about this. There was no proposal to tighten up on residence permits or family reunifications. So I am glad that the Left will support it, but just so we are quite clear: the Left has not itself proposed it. And the great immigration initiative that the Left itself made was more about how to bring more foreigners here, which would trigger some social dumping than about how to tighten the asylum rules. It's just so we're clear. In relation to this when the law comes, I would like to say that I find it strange that we do not want to have a thorough discussion. But I can promise that we will bring it as quickly as we possibly can, and the law will have to be revised in three years' time. That is also stated in the legislative programme, so you can just look at the legislative programme and see what it says.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213315	In other words, if the government had failed to relax 31 times in the area of foreigners and thus also in the conditions of asylum seekers, we would not have been in the situation we are in now. So the government itself has put itself in the soup that it is in, and we have warned absolutely every time that has been relaxed in the field of foreigners. So that talk can be put aside by the Prime Minister. It's just one of the most untrustworthy things I've heard for a long time. But I didn't get an answer to my question. It has to sort of blur a little in the wind, because it is a review which must, as it were, depend on. How can the Minister for Justice say so clearly that this is a permanent tightening of family reunification rules? Apparently, the Minister of Justice isn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213407	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213409	I note that the rapporteur did not take the opportunity to contradict me on the fact that, when the Left came up with their big immigration initiative, it did not make a single proposal to tighten the asylum rules. So now they're trying to tell us all that they've meant it all the time, but that's not true. It is we who have proposed what is contained in the proposals we have made this week that I am glad that the Left is here, but they have not proposed it themselves. I would just like to make something clear: I see that the Left is touring with the 31 points, and one of the points concerning asylum seekers is by no means all of them that it is a question of the possibility of working outside the asylum centres, if you work together on your own return. This should be what, according to Mrs Inger Løjberg, brings a great many asylum seekers to Denmark, so that you can be allowed to work. It just doesn't make sense. As far as the revision is concerned, I think it is quite simply: in three years' time we will have to look at this legislation again. It is in the legislative programme how it will work, and there is absolutely no mystery about looking at the legislation again in three years' time. As the Radical rapporteur said, it can also have three outcomes: one can tighten, one can weaken or one can not change anything. That's what it is when you review a law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213529	Then it's mr. Kristian Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213533	I should just like to start by saying that the Prime Minister is saying so much nonsense about the policy of the Left that we do not have the time to refute everything. However, I have noted during the day that the Socialists and now the Prime Minister have been pleased to read quotes, among others. a quote from Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. If the Prime Minister had read the whole article from which the Prime Minister quotes Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the Prime Minister would also read the following: But the government is responsible for running the country. It is trying to turn any discussion about the country's economy into a matter of opposition views. But there is a need for it to tell itself how it intends to balance the economy. Maybe the Prime Minister can guess who made that quote. I can then say that it is the current Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior who thought that the government itself had a responsibility to make a bid to bring the country into balance. I would like to return to the issue of declining growth, i.e. the declining level of expenditure for the municipalities, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister directly: where is it that the level of municipal welfare has decreased? Where is it that municipal welfare has deteriorated due to the negative growth that the government has led to in municipal service costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213648	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213650	It is very difficult with the policy of the Left, because the Left itself will not tell us what the plans are, either when it comes to zero growth or when it comes to tax policy. And when the rest of us try to guess, from what the Left has done and said, it's nonsense. But the Left could do that by actually just laying out a plan. This cannot be so difficult; it was what was demanded of us when we were in opposition. Why don't you do it, Left? Put forward a plan that tells us what tax cuts are, who they are to be given to, what a new modern cash assistance system we need, and what it is that zero growth is achieved, not just 1 year, but year by year. Why isn't the Left putting forward that plan? One can say so many times that it is quite unreasonable and that the rest of us have not understood anything, but bring it up, Left. So right to the question of the growth of the municipalities: I do not think anyone understands where the Left comes from in this matter. The Left has just put forward a financial bill asking the municipalities just to open the budgets and find 1.5 billion. kr. If it doesn't feel like savings in the municipalities, then I don't know what savings are.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213807	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213810	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has clearly presented on behalf of the Left how our economy is connected. We agree with the government's 2020 plan, apart from one point, that we will not make one of the world's public sectors even bigger. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, does not answer my question. My question was: where is it that local welfare has deteriorated in the years in which the Prime Minister has been responsible and the municipal welfare costs of the municipalities have diminished, according to the answer given by the Minister of Finance in this Chamber to Mr. Jesper Petersen from, at the moment, the Prime Minister's own party? That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: where has municipal welfare deteriorated during the reign of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009213856	That's right, sir. Kristian Jensen says that in the past it sailed. It sailed out in the public sector, there was no way of keeping budgets; things went on in the public sector. This has, of course, meant that when a government came into being which made it a tradition to want to keep budgets, there had to be some adjustment in the municipalities. That has happened, and that is why we see, of course, that if you compare how service expenditure is growing now, with before the crisis, where things were sailing, there is, of course, a smaller increase now than before the crisis. What the government has done, after all, is to prioritize targeted lifting in the municipalities, targeted lifting of the day offers, the elderly have been given a boost. The last time we met in this debate I should like to remind you once more that we had a major problem in convincing the Left that it is actually the case that next year there will be 300 million. kr. extra for the municipal service compared to this year. This is the case, and the Left will therefore have to bear it in mind. We talked about it in June, now we talked about it here in October, and I hope the Left will remember it until we have to debate it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214016	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214019	My question is about sanctions and what they actually entail. It is not, in fact, a discussion about whether we are doing the right or wrong thing in relation to Russia, but what it entails in Denmark and in Danish business, I think has been somewhat neglected. I think that, in some way, the government should deal more with what is actually being done when a large part of our exports in the food sector, of agricultural and food products, where we have annual exports to Russia of about 4.5 billion. kr., already now, after they imposed sanctions on the Russian side on 7 August, perhaps involving 2-3 billion. kr. After all, it is companies that are affected, and I think in some way we are too quick on our part, that is, on the part of the Folketing, to say that we are sanctioning and then not thinking about what is happening at the other end. I understand, then, from the Minister for Development that a small sum of millions of dollars has been set aside, I think it is 5 million. kr. But would the Prime Minister not agree that it can be easy to be a politician when it comes to doing the right thing, but that it can be difficult to be a businessman?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214143	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214144	I have not taken the sanctions lightly. I have had this discussion with my colleagues in the European Council several times. We have also had a good discussion on how to ensure that we act in solidarity with each other. We have also always given Russia a chance to come back so that we could get back to the negotiating table. So I have certainly not taken these sanctions lightly, and I am fully aware that it is affecting companies in Denmark and that, of course, it also risks hitting jobs in Denmark. So I have not taken it lightly, and it is not really my impression that others in the Folketing have taken this matter lightly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214229	No, but I think we may have only seen the tip of the iceberg as to what it really is that might be in store for Danish business if this continues. Well, I understand that about 40%. Carlsberg's entire earnings are in Russia. I have also seen that JYSK Bedding Store has cancelled some plans to build 40-50 stores in Russia. So it can quickly become big money that is at stake and where it also has an effect on Danish finances. I would like to ask whether it would not be possible to envisage further compensation, particularly for the small and medium-sized enterprises that have been affected; one might have an export to Russia of some small niche, which would perhaps mean the closure of the company. I am sure that the large companies will be able to cope better with this than the small and medium-sized ones. So, is there an opportunity to provide extra compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214331	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214333	I take this case very seriously, and I've been doing it all along. That is basically why we have escalated our sanctions in the way we have, in other words because we should be able to keep up. It should be proportionate, and we should be able to do something in the European Union, where we also held the things we did together. So I don't take it lightly. I also hear about the consequences that are currently happening, and that is also why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set aside a pool you can always call it smaller, but at least it is a pool so that you can find replacement markets for these companies. It is not compensation, but it is replacement markets so that you can sell your goods in some markets other than those you have had up to now. It's my hope, of course, as I think it's everyone else's hope that it can be done and that you don't get too financially affected by this. However, I do not think that any idea should be made that this can be done without it also affecting Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214433	Sir. Eigil Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214440	The Social Democrats' chairman stated at the Party Congress that the unemployment benefit reform is bad, but that it remains after an election, and at the same time the Prime Minister warned against Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Remember that Løkke doesn't care, the Prime Minister said very rightly in his congress speech. Is it not, then, to gamble with the entire Danish model on the labour market and the thousands of people who have lost their daily allowance when you postpone a permanent solution until after a parliamentary election, where the Prime Minister can be named Lars Løkke Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214517	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214519	We still hope that the Prime Minister is not called Lars Løkke Rasmussen, but that we have the opportunity to actually continue the work where we have got Denmark onto the right track, a safe track where we create jobs. We still hope so; it is up to the electorate. Having said that, however, I think it is important that the next unemployment benefit reform we are making should not be something we are doing in some night hour or other over in the Ministry of Finance, where a good pork roast is being served. Then we'll think carefully. And my hope is that we can have a broad agreement here in the Folketing so that we can have a new benefit system that is well-anchored, because it is based on a commission in which the social partners participate, moreover, which has broad support here in the Danish Parliament. For that is what must provide security for the individual unemployed. They must be able to count on the things we decide here in the Folketing. So that's my hope in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214616	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214618	In the SF, we also hope that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen becomes prime minister. So that part of it we agree on. However, when the Social Democrats are against the loss of benefit, there is also the course that the Danish People's Party has now changed and there you have to take them at the word "a broad political majority" to solve the unemployment benefit problem and do something about it now. It is now that the unemployed need it, because the insecurity is so enormous both in jobs and among the unemployed. Then why is it that the Prime Minister would risk leaving the right to serve Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was the one who led the knife against the benefit system rather than acting now when you are sitting at the end of the table? I think that a good solution can be put together at this stage too, and I would like to stress that there is a good principle that says that you must use power while you have it. It's a crazy thing to bet on using power at a time when you might have lost it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214720	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214723	I think that this time we have to do it properly. We must listen to the benefit commission which the SF itself has helped to set up. We need to listen to what they're saying. We have the social partners in the benefit committee and it would simply be wrong to change the benefit system in such a way that we have just asked a commission to look at this in order to do it thoroughly. In the meantime, we can indeed welcome the fact that we have, in fact, together eased the very brutal phasing-in of Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's unemployment benefit reform, so that we have actually provided support for those people who have exhausted their benefit rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214802	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214805	Thank you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply, which I think was quite excellent in many ways. I do not want to spend time commenting on any of the comments there, but I would like to raise another issue which I think we have addressed too little. Fagforbundet FOA published some figures this summer which showed that the municipalities had together saved almost 1.4 billion. kr. in the area of older people in 2014 budgets, i.e. this year. Admittedly, they had received 1 billion. kr. to a lasting increase in care for the elderly as a result of the Finance Act last year between the Government and the Left. This does not alter the fact that the result is a net reduction in expenditure on the elderly of just under 400 million. kr. We have all heard about the general consequences of the cuts in this area: elderly people, who are filled with diapers, the widespread use of morphine patches for the elderly in nursing homes and weekly lunches for home help recipients. I believe and fear that this is just the tip of the iceberg and that the consequences of the cuts in this area are evidently continuing. My questions are: Does the Prime Minister think that these things are satisfactory? Does the Prime Minister think that was the point of the older billion?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214930	It's getting a little late, but there's also a little too much talk in the sidelines. Can we ask for a little more silence in the Chamber? The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009214940	Thank you. I don't quite recognize FOA's numbers, but I don't want to get tired of that now. I just want to say that it is right. It is true that there has been a greater adjustment of their economy in the municipalities. I do not want to hide that, but I think it is important to bear in mind that, in recent years, the economy of the municipalities can only be understood in the light of the heavy expenditure slips that existed in the 00s. This is the only way to understand what it has really been like in recent years. What was at the heart of the matter was that the Left and Conservatives had completely lost control of the municipalities' finances. This development culminated in 2009, when the municipalities exceeded the budgets for their service costs by 5 billion. kr. This means that, after the crisis, you have had to adapt your economy and it has been hard in many places. However, it is not sustainable in the long run that there is no control over service costs, and so do we now, whereas under the Left and Conservatives it had been completely abandoned to manage the municipalities' finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215050	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215052	Thank you. I do not agree with the Prime Minister that everything can only be attributed to V and K and that responsibility can only be placed with them. They bear a great deal of responsibility, no doubt about it, so it's nothing to sit and smile about it, they do, no doubt about it, but this government has, of course, continued the strict policy towards the municipalities. This government has continued the budgetary tyranny and has even adopted the budgetary tyranny itself in the form of the budget law, which all parties in the Folketing, except the Enhedslisten, have agreed to. But let it go. My question was: is it really fair that these financial adjustments should be used in order to use the neutral word used by the Prime Minister to affect core welfare tasks, for example. in the area of the elderly? I could also add the day-care area and the primary school, but now it was just the older area I was asking about. Is that really fair, and is that what was meant by the elderly billion, which was announced to give money for a lasting increase in the elderly area? It's not like it's a lasting boost. If FOA's figures hold water I agree with the reservation that you have to take away a net drop in the amount of money spent on the elderly and with the consequences I have described.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215214	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215216	Sir. Finn Sørensen describes it as budget tyranny to the municipalities. I actually just think that it is to have control of the budgets, to have a handle on how the service costs are developing in the municipalities. It is not good for anyone, even the most disadvantaged in our society, if, year after year, there is no control over the development of service expenditure in the municipalities. That is what the Left did not have when they were in government, and we do not have to go back to those times. Now we've got it under control. Having said that, let us not remind each other of the facts in this matter, and that is that next year the municipalities will have 300 million. kr. extra for the municipal service, if compared to the previous year. It is just that we remember that this is extra money for the municipalities compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215307	Then it is Mrs Sophie Løhde for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215311	I do not think there are many municipalities that can talk about extra money, but there are many municipalities that can talk about the fact that there has now been minus growth in the municipalities over the last few years. But thank you to the Prime Minister of the country for spending all his speaking time today trying to create myths about the policy of the Left. I think there may be one or two people out there who have had some expectation that the Prime Minister of the country also had something to offer on behalf of the government, but no. The Prime Minister said a great many things about the policy of the Left and also much that has little to do with the facts, but there was one thing, however, that the Prime Minister was correctly reproduced, namely that the Left would like to spend more money on health. I can confirm this: that is quite correct. We are proposing to spend twice as much on health than the government is proposing. It can be said that in the field of cancer alone we are proposing to spend 380 million. kr. extra for next year for the benefit of Danish cancer patients. And precisely in the area of cancer, I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the country: why is the government opposed to the Left's proposal to create a cancer plan IV?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215428	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215429	Firstly, I think it is fine that the Left will spend more money on health. What is a little too bad is that we can only see the Left plan for one year at a time. It is precisely in those situations that it would be really interesting to know if it is the case that the Left would like to spend more money on health also in the coming years and at the same time will give these very large tax cuts where it is otherwise that need to be saved. That is where it is beginning to be interesting to discuss with the Left. You can make a Finance Act for a year. It couldn't do that, because it wasn't quite financed, but in principle you could make a Finance Act for a year. But where it becomes difficult to have zero growth and at the same time invest in health is when you have to put forward a plan year after year. Come on, Left, come on with that plan! I am actually convinced that solutions could be found in the area of cancer. We have put forward our plan, which is 5 billion. kr. over the next four years and I think it's a good plan and it's about cancer, but also about the people who live with chronic diseases. I am absolutely convinced that this will help. We have come a long way in the field of cancer, I would like to acknowledge that, but we must go even further, so that the possibility of surviving cancer in Denmark is as great as it is in the countries around us. So we have to work on that with determination. Then I am very pleased that Sophie Løhde has taken the floor here today, because then she can also take the opportunity to establish once and for all what it is like now with waiting times for hospital operations. Here Mrs Sophie Løhde has been a little confused in the public debate, so it is very good to make it clear that today we have waiting lists for operations that are shorter than ever before. It has gone a little slow to get Mrs Sophie Løhde to acknowledge this in the public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215618	Mrs. Sophie Løhde, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215620	Well, I'm glad I can please the Prime Minister. If it takes no more than the fact that I am speaking, I promise I will do it again some other time. It goes without saying that the Left does not intend to take a step forward in the field of cancer and then take two steps back. It goes without saying that the Left is not the party that is making the same, I would call the mistake made by the Socialists and the Prime Minister, namely to say one thing before the elections, in order to do exactly the opposite afterwards. What we are proposing in the field of cancer is, of course, a lasting boost. But the Prime Minister did not reply to what I specifically asked, namely why the government is opposed to the Left's proposal to create a cancer plan 4. It is a cancer plan 4 with a focus on capacity and quality, so that we do not make the mistake that was made in the 1990s when, due to poor planning, we suddenly ended up in huge capacity problems with poor survival and long waiting lists. It is true that the government has put forward a health proposal, and we are quite happy about that, because this is the first time that the government has started to take an interest in health, but there is no proposal for a cancer plan 4 in that health proposal. So will the Prime Minister here today confirm that the government will then support the Left's proposal for a cancer plan 4 or will one maintain that one is opposed to a cancer plan 4? It must be pretty simple to answer. It is not included in the government's proposal, but what does the Prime Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215755	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215757	Now I was quite pleased that Mrs Sophie Løhde took the floor today, but I had also hoped that the error that Mrs Sophie Løhde has raised in the public debate on waiting times could be clarified in that. It would simply be so nice if Mrs Sophie Løhde would say quite clearly that waiting lists on operations are lower than they have ever been. Mrs Sophie Løhde did not really want to acknowledge this in the public debate, and it would be exciting if she did so. I am also very pleased and would like to sign that Mrs Sophie Løhde is concerned with cancer. We are, of course, too, and it should be possible to discuss this together too. But what is still missing from the Left and from Mrs Sophie Løhde is a long-term plan from the Left that if you want to spend so much money on health over the next few years, where is it you have to save when you also want zero growth? Give me the plan, Left!
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215854	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009215901	It is about the economy of the municipalities. I just want to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister remembers what the Prime Minister went to the polls for. And if the Prime Minister does not remember, then I can refer to a presentation called "A Fair Solution," exactly on page 13, where it appears that the Socialists want to increase the economic room for manoeuvre of the municipalities by 12 billion. kr. kr.! And then I would just like to ask the Prime Minister if she can confirm that promise, first of all, and secondly, if she can tell us how much more the municipalities have spent in 2013 compared to 2011. If the Prime Minister is in doubt about that answer, she can just ask her Finance Minister, who has replied to the Finance Committee's question No. 349. Here is the answer, but I still think the Prime Minister should be allowed to reply to it: firstly, how much has been promised to the municipalities, whether it is true that it is 12 billion. kr. extra, as can be seen from a Fair Solution, whether the Prime Minister confirms it, and secondly how much more municipalities have spent in 2013 compared to 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220007	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220009	Firstly, we have ensured that there are 10 billion. kr. more to the total public service now than there was in 2011. 10 billion kr. That is a lot of money anyway, and the Left would not be able to achieve that with their zero growth. In relation to how service costs have developed, I can say that they have remained roughly constant from 2011 to 2013. After all, we have had a debate in the past about what has happened in relation to 2014 and in relation to 2013. We had that debate the last time we met. And there I found it very, very difficult to convince both the President of the Left and others, as it was back in June, that the municipalities will be given a boost next year. Actually, they do. So it would be really nice if Mr. Jacob Jensen was able to confirm that today. This is a good opportunity to get away from some of the myths that are in the debate. Mrs. Sophie Løhde wouldn't really help me, but it may be, sir. Jacob Jensen here will help me confirm that the municipalities have actually received 300 million. kr. extra for the municipal service compared to this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220113	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220115	Yes, yes, but we are happy to help in the Left Prime Minister remember the Prime Minister's own promises, and we would also like to help the Prime Minister remember how many of the promises have actually been fulfilled. And that is why I am actually happy to note and would like to acknowledge that the Prime Minister here today, precisely in the answer she has given here, actually admits: yes, the promise that the municipalities should have 12 billion. kr. extra, which I went to the polls on before 2011, we have not fulfilled. We have not fulfilled that, says the Prime Minister now. The economy has remained fairly constant, was the answer. Can you translate it into zero growth, spending stop? No, de facto it's minus growth in the municipalities. In fact, the Prime Minister can ask 60 out of 98 municipalities. And these aren't numbers I'm making up. These are figures that the Finance Minister stated in the Finance Committee: 60 out of 98 municipalities have seen that they can spend less money in 2013 than they could in 2011. There's in fact some way up to the 12 billion. kr., as the Prime Minister promised.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220214	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220218	Should I understand this debate so that the Left is trying to deceive the Danes that the Left's zero growth is better for the municipalities than our growth of 3 billion. kr. Every year? Am I really supposed to understand this? Does the Left really think the people are going at it? And does the Left really believe that, just in the draft budget presented this year, when you have asked the municipalities to open their budgets and find 1.5 billion? kr., so would the municipalities think that it will be better under a Left Government if such a government were to come? Does the Left really think that the Danes will think that it sounds quite plausible? It does not, so the Left must go further into the countryside.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220305	Then I understand that the agreed speaking time has elapsed, so we thank the Prime Minister in this round. Then I need an overview of which rapporteurs want to speak in the second round. I understand that Mrs Inger Løjberg has now risen as rapporteur on the Left and would like to speak in the second round. I have noted Mr. Uffe Elbæk, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen and Mrs Maja Panduro. So why don't you guys just press in or some other way sign up? I'm not sure I can see all my hands. We shall start with Mrs Inger Løjberg as the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220352	Thank you for a good debate at least so far. I think it has been a pleasure to follow it, especially because I have been able to see that there has been an enormous interest in the policy of the Left. My own President gave a speech on our key points: that in future it will be worthwhile to work; that we want more private jobs; that we want an alien policy that opens up Denmark to those who can and will, and closes it to those who do not; that we should be able to be safe both at home and on the street; and that we should have an even better health service. Then the Socialist rapporteur's turn turned out to be, and she took the floor freshly and boldly, and, if not also, she used all her speaking time to talk about the Left. I must admit that the impression from the ranks was that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen had a better foothold on Left politics and its interpretation, but Mrs Maja Panduro cannot be blamed for a lack of interest in Left politics. I understand, of course, Mrs Maja Panduro's fascination with the Left. It is shared by a great many Danes, and good for it. But there was a thought-provoking lack of fascination with Mrs Maja Panduro's own party in her speech. For Mrs Maja Panduro simply did not find the opportunity to mention her own party with a single word in her speech, not a single word. And I've actually been talking. You could do that quickly, because there wasn't. But what was at least as strange, I think, was that even the Prime Minister was completely ignored in silence. I am well aware that there may be words that may be difficult to take in your mouth with a smile on your lips, but it is nevertheless paradoxical, and you would almost think that Mrs Maja Panduro had misunderstood which of the government's party leaders ended up fleeing to Brussels. But I really thought it was interesting when we had the opportunity to put questions to Mrs Maja Panduro. After all, there are many Danes and there are also many in this Chamber who would like answers to how the government really intends to finance the morass that the government has helped to create in the area of asylum, where suddenly 20,000 asylum seekers are expected this year. It is an increase that can trigger an extra bill of 2 billion. kr. Where's the money coming from? we asked. Then the answer was: From where they usually come. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, in a very clever way, I thought, asked where it was, said the answer: they are usually found in the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps I think it is appropriate to commend the rapporteur on innovation here, because before the elections Mr. Harald Børsting in LO, who was supposed to finance everything, and now it is evident that the Minister for Finance has been given that task. I have to say that I think the source of funding is a little loose in the joints said in Jutland. Fortunately, however, the Minister for Finance has the opportunity to step up on the platform later and provide clarity. Mrs Maja Panduro certainly could not. Then there is the debate on the end of the Left's spending. I might as well take it now, because I know you're gonna ask anyway. I think the question will sound something like: when will you then present a plan for how you will spend the money that you have not said you will spend? I think I might as well take a little educational approach to answering the question. It is relatively impossible to give an answer to a question that makes no sense, but I am still trying. The government has an ambition to make one of the world's largest public sectors even bigger. We don't. However, we have accepted the 2020 plan put forward by the government. Every year, that plan makes a small profit. The small surplus will then allow us to reduce taxes and taxes so that we can create more Danish jobs. So we have a plan. In fact, it is almost the same as the government's plan, but with a crucial difference. The money that the government will use to increase the public sector will be used to reduce taxes and taxes so that we can create more Danish jobs. I don't really think it's that hard to understand, but it could be because I have a slightly different approach to it with the money. In fact, I think they feel so well in the citizens' pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220910	I have noted three brief remarks: Mrs Camilla Hersom, Mr. Per Clausen and Mrs Maja Panduro. And we'll start with sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009220930	Thank you. It's nice to get there first. I just want to ask Mrs Inger Løjberg one small question. It is because I come from Aalborg where we discussed the municipal budget. There I asked the local Leftmen whether they had committed in their budget on the basis that the Left had decided that the municipality should have 30-40 million. kr. less next year. I would just like to ask Mrs Inger Løjberg whether it is not really understood that this time, through the financial negotiations, the Left expects to agree with the government that you will have less money in the municipalities next year, namely 1.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221001	In fact, it is quite right that we should be taking a stand on that front, for example. The Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government in the form of an aid scheme. I do not think this is an impossible task for local politicians. I believe that it is in being a local politician that priority should also be given over the year, and I think that it can be in contrast to Mr Gundelach's report. Per Clausen is saying that at least the local government politicians of the Left can think for themselves that you can be innovative, that you can want to constantly improve the public sector and get more out of the money. So I do not think that this is an unrealistic task for the municipalities, and that is why the Left does not believe that it is an unrealistic task for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221045	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221047	In other words, what we know now is that when it comes to the economy of the municipalities, it is well understood that, after the government has reached an agreement with KL, the Left, in the financial negotiations, will penetrate the fact that the municipalities must have 1.5 billion. kr. less. That's the way KL is supposed to ensure welfare next year. Then maybe I'm a little bit worried about how bad things can go when the Left gets the power of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221111-2	Speaking plainly to sir. Per Clausen: I would rather, as a municipal politician, know what awaits me than what does not expect me. And if you were a local politician during this period, you'd have gotten a promise of 12 billion. kr. extra. It really wasn't. On the contrary, there has been less growth in 60 out of 98 municipalities. I think that is a problem, as Mr. Per Clausen, with the political position he has, should leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221139	Then it is Mrs Maja Panduro for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221142	Thank you. One might be tempted to ask Mrs Inger Løbberg: what happened to Mr. Inger Løbberg? Lars Løkke Rasmussen? Did he get too tired to go back on or what? Instead, however, I choose to take this opportunity and then hope that we can get more concrete answers from Mrs Inger Løjberg. I have a rather simple question: sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said as recently as September on the proposal from the Left on a so-called new modern cash aid ceiling that, and I quote: we will come back with a very concrete proposal, quote the end. So I would just like to hear: when will the concrete proposal come from the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221222	So, I have actually understood that Mrs Maja Panduro was also very pleased that the President of the Left went up to the platform. This has been something that has been discussed eagerly, I have noticed, in the circle over here on the left of the Parliamentary Chamber. So I don't think that's so weird. Around the ceiling on cash benefits, I can just say that I myself feel that I want a society in which it is always worthwhile to work. And it just cannot today, I would say to Mrs Maja Panduro. There are far too many people for whom it doesn't pay to work. If we take a married couple, you have to go out and earn a starting salary of about 35,000 kroner, so that it can pay for the one to work at all. It is a crooked society that we are building, I would say to Mrs Maja Panduro. That's why we need a cash aid ceiling. We've already defined the direction of this ceiling on cash benefits, and that's what's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221323	Mrs. Maja Panduro.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221324	I would just like to ask once again: when will the concrete proposal we have been promised by the President of the Left? When?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221335	Well, I can't and I don't want to date. After all, I am very fond of Mrs Maja Panduro and would like to serve Mrs Maja Panduro with all the information I can at all, but what ought to be of interest to Mrs Maja Panduro is not a date. What should be of interest to Mrs Maja Panduro, with the great social commitment that she is also showing, must surely be to create a society in which it is worthwhile to work, where children come home from school to parents who are at work and who, in this way, are both involved, one might say, to create something in society, but, of course, also to gather inspiration for the family. It is a real problem, then, that there are too many children growing up in families, where, of course, the imbalance is created by the fact that parents are not at work. And then there is the same thing to say about it, that unemployment is actually inherited. That is why we can help to create a bigger problem than what we are dealing with today, and the Socialists are guilty of this right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221434	The last brief remark in this round is from Mrs Camilla Hersom. And just so as not to bother Members too much, I have to repeat the new rule that there are only three who will have a brief comment to make to the rapporteurs in the second round. Mrs. Camilla Hersom.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221450	Thank you. I understand that the proceeds from the modern cash aid ceiling are to be used to lower the tax at the bottom, i.e. for the low-paid. Can the rapporteur explain how much tax will be lowered at the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221508-2	Of course, I cannot do that because the modern ceiling on cash aid has not yet been fully completed and has not yet been presented. Well, then it's hard for someone to know. But it is quite correct, as Mrs Camilla Hersom says, that tax must be lightened at the bottom in order to make it even more attractive for the lowest-paid to enter the labour market. In fact, I think that is the right way to go if we want to create a society in which it is always worthwhile to work, and I know that is a value which the Radical Left also shares with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221545	Then I say thank you to the Left... I think perhaps she has one more question). Oh, yes, Mrs Camilla Hersom. Right must be right).
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221558	Can we at least get an answer to what level these tax cuts will be? Is there a minimum level before you are satisfied by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221607-2	Well, I feel like I want to reduce taxes in general, and I certainly want to do that at the bottom of the tax scale in order to make it more attractive to work. So no, I can't put a number on it. We will work tirelessly in the Left to reduce taxes. We do not think there are any taxes that are too low in Denmark, we want to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221635	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Maja Panduro, for the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009221651	In a sense, I was a little surprised by the shift of the rapporteur from the Left. Perhaps I would have expected in a way that when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen apparently had finished his guest appearance here on the platform, it was perhaps the second half of the Left Presidency, Mr. Kristian Jensen, as we should see up here. You'd think that when one half got too tired, the other one stepped in. This is how I think a division of labour normally works, but it does not seem that division of labour goes that far in the Presidency of the Left. Then it is good that they have my excellent colleague Mrs Inger Løjberg. Unfortunately, however, we did not come to an honest answer here either. Here, too, we did not get an answer to the question of zero growth, nor, for the second time today, could the Left tell us what their plan really is. Instead, we have heard Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says that the Left's plan is the government's 2020 plan, that the Left has a plan to give tax relief for 60 cents, and that the Left does not have a plan, but in return one will follow it to the letter. I mean, it's not even an attitude, a position, a line of sight, a point of reference, a direction or a point of reference. It's just black talk. I think that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was supposed to stop the Christmas games and sea explanations and come up with that plan. Someone has, however, given an honest answer here today, and that is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. "We point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister, and we do so without prior demand," he said. See, that's a clear speech. All of you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's airy promises of gold and green forests do not matter if only Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen becomes prime minister. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will introduce zero growth; DF is supposedly against, but so, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is going to be prime minister. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will introduce user charges at the doctor; DF is against, they say, but so, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is going to be prime minister. And Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will give tax relief to the richest heirs and oil companies; DF says they are against, but Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is going to be prime minister. So what do we know after a whole day's debate? What is the conclusion? Yes, the conclusion is that the Left has no plan for their policy, but, on the other hand, they stand firm on it. The Danish People's Party has a policy, but it really doesn't matter if only Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen becomes prime minister. I think the opposition should ask itself whether it is an honest answer to the Danes, and whether the Danes have any idea and can count on what they are getting with Lars, Kristian, Anders and Søren. I think it is time to present a concrete plan, a comprehensive and responsible policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222007	Then there are three inscribed to short remarks. First, it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222011	Now we have been listening all day to the scaremongering campaign of social democracy, compared to what zero growth means for employment in Denmark. When you ask the Ministry of Finance what zero growth means, it is true that the Ministry of Finance answers that it costs employment in the public sector corresponding to minus 27,000 public employees. And the Social Democratic Party is really, really happy to tell you that. The Social Democratic Party should perhaps also say in all fairness that the Ministry of Finance says that this money is being spent on reducing taxes on labour, increasing employment in the private sector by 41,000. This means that total employment in Denmark is increasing by almost 14 000 people. Given that there are more employees in the public sector today than when the financial crisis broke out and that there are still 150,000 jobs missing, compared to what employment in the private sector was before the financial crisis, is it not most rational to focus on increasing employment in the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222127	Now it may be a little unconventional to answer a question, but I do it anyway. I don't have that Finance Minister's answer up here, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen refers to that, but I could imagine he is, so I would just like to ask whether this is the same answer from the Minister of Finance, which assumes that, as the questioner refers, the money is not spent on facilitating tax relief at work, but that it is used purposefully to lighten the top tax. Is that really remembered or understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222201	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222203	Now top taxes are also taxes at work. But it is true that you spend the money on lightening the top tax and that you spend it on lightening the bottom tax. Zero growth gives much more money than it takes to remove the top tax. The point is simply that in a situation where many jobs have been lost in Denmark and scaremongering about what zero growth will mean for employment in Denmark, should one not say that if the aim is to increase total employment in Denmark, it is actually better not to let the world's largest public sector grow, but instead to leave money out in the private sector? Because it will actually increase total employment more, it will actually create some more jobs, also for those who fall out of the benefit system, that is to say for some of the 800,000 Danes who are outside the labour market today and for the 150,000 unemployed who are. It will create more jobs, more opportunities for them than if the public sector continues to grow.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222308	Now, as we also saw here, a lot of assumptions have been put into these calculations. One of them is that you have to spend the money on removing the top tax. I do not agree with that is a real political priority. I fully acknowledge that the party of the author of the question is in fact very honest about the fact that it is a wish they have, and there one might in a sense wish that some of the other parties pointing to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen or Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's party would be equally honest though. For these figures we have seen many of the members of the Left, for example, touring around in all the country's local newspapers and on the streets and streets, but they have just forgotten to say that this presupposes the removal of the top tax. If you're gonna believe what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen says that this is not the priority of the Left, and therefore you cannot expect even if you base all the other assumptions on the same gain.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222416	Sir. Jacob Jensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222418	I am standing here with a reply from the Minister of Finance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 349, and it has been submitted on 30 June 2014 to one I do not want the rapporteur to be content, but I would nevertheless like to ask whether the rapporteur has a sense of what the content could be when I say that this is about the development of service costs for municipalities from 2011 to 2012. I ask: is it the rapporteur's assessment or feeling that the service costs for the municipalities in their accounting figures, i.e. their consumption, from 2011 to 2013, have evolved in a positive direction, that is, an additional consumption, or in a negative direction, that is, a lower consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222501	However, it is very good to ask about my sense of an answer from the Minister for Finance, who is in his hand, but well. It's not a secret. I actually think most people have been able to feel it... that it's been tough times out in the municipalities. These have been hard times in Denmark. But that we must experience the concern that one could hear before in some of the questions to the Prime Minister, from a party that wants zero growth indefinitely, and which, when they have to have a financial law to hang together just for next year and it snaps a little bit, says freshly that they will then scrub just 1.5 billion. kr. extra in from the municipalities that have already agreed their budgets, and which we have made a municipality agreement with that one can easily • I think is basically a little nice. So do the mayors of the Left. That is why the mayor of my home town, Randers, has said that it cannot be done, and that is also why Brønderslev's Left Mayor calls it utopia. Those are quite big words to me in the mouth of a North Jutland Leftman.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222615	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222616	Oddly enough, in both Randers and Brønderslev, they have had less growth in the last three years. This is clear from the answer given by the Minister for Finance. And I can just quote from the Minister for Finance's reply, and it is then at the total level that the service costs in 2011 for the municipalities were 231.4 billion. kr., in 2012 they were 230.8 billion. kr., and in 2013 they were 231.1 billion. kr.; i.e., negative growth in total. We have then allowed ourselves to ask whether we could get an overview of what it looks like per year. municipality. That's what we've got. I think it was yesterday that we got the answer. This shows that 60 out of 98 municipalities have had to spend less money since 2011. That is just why I am referring to the promise that I also asked the Prime Minister about. And will the rapporteur confirm here that the Socialists voted for a commitment to increase the service level by 12 billion? kr.? The fact is, as we now have here from the Finance Minister, that they have received a minus growth. They haven't got a check; they've got a giro card.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222716	I think you should listen very carefully when these mayors also say that you do not want to have negative growth in the coming years. It has been felt that it has been tight enough that they too have helped to pay the price that had to be paid after the party that was held and for the irresponsible economic policy pursued by the bourgeois parties. Over the last three years, we have been pursuing a policy of positive growth in the public sector. That money has gone mainly to the effect that we have actually been able to prioritise our health care, that we have been able to prioritise, that we are today educating more young people than we have known ever before. It costs money. I think it would suit the Left to be honest and say that if we had had zero growth over the last three years and if we were to have zero growth indefinitely in the future, it would mean very drastic cuts, for example in the municipalities, if, at the same time, priority were to be given, for example, to those countries which are not members of the European Union. the treatment of cancer, as the Left says they want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222826	The last brief remark is from Mr Seligman. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222830	Thank you for that, President. I did not get a clear answer from the Prime Minister, so I would like to try to ask the Socialist rapporteur again. After all, we have heard time and again that the Socialists agree with the SF that the unemployment benefit reform is a waste of time, and I would like to sign for that. But I still have no clear sense of what the Socialists are going to change. You keep referring to this commission, but if we can at least get a clear answer: if the Social Democrats and we would like to help in this way from the SF to regain the power of government, what are we going to do after an election? Should the Radicals continue to insist that there should be no tampering with the unemployment benefit reform, or what exactly do the Socialists want with a post-election unemployment benefit reform? Can we not have a clear answer to that today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222912	I have answered it, and so has the Prime Minister, but I am happy to say it again: we have set up a daily allowance commission, and we have done so with the SF and with Mr Tugendhat. Jonas Dahl. I even remember that Mr. Jonas Dahl wrote a very good letter in which he wrote: I and SF swing with the red tabs over this commission. I understand that, because it is an excellent commission made up of good people, among other things. the social partners, which we usually have a common respect for. In fact, in respect of them, I think we should also listen to their recommendations and not anticipate them, because we think it could be fresh and good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222955	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009222956	That it could be fresh to do something, it's been said. With all due respect, 60,000 Danes stand to fall out of the benefit system by 2015, and then it is called fresh to want to address that question. I think it is a rather bold remark, Mrs Maja Panduro is throwing out here at the end of the evening, and if she is finally going to quote me, she must at least do it in full. 'Cause this is one of the things we're dealing with here. on the labour market benefit which we now propose by the SF is being made permanent. It was actually some of the things that we from the SF were happy that we got through the government, so let's get to grips with that part. In fact, it is also our proposal to the government in the financial negotiations to make labour market benefits permanent. However, I still lack a clear answer from the Socialists to what the Socialists think. Is it a longer period of benefit, i.e. the permanentisation of the labour market benefit? Is this a shorter recovery period? What do the Socialists expect us to do after an election? It is interesting, however, if the Socialists would like to sit in government after an election and I assume they would like to see what kind of policy they are going to vote on. We can read in the press that they want to tell us before an election, but is it not reasonable to tell us this today? What do the Socialists want in the field of unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223104	What we want to do is to listen to the people we have jointly asked and who we have put forward the task of carefully reviewing our benefit system, which is, after all, relatively old and also fairly comprehensive in many ways, and then come up with proposals for how we can do better. I believe in "and so do the people who sit on the commission, among other things. the social partners, fortunately also that we can actually set up our benefit system in a better way than we do today. This is reflected not only in the fact that we voted against the benefit reform at the time it was made, but also in the fact that so far we have spent 3.3 billion. kr. to mitigate the fall, to hold hands under the people who would have been hit by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's very brutal unemployment benefit reform. How good it is that we have together been able to take responsibility for lifting them. I believe that, and I hope that Mr. Jonas Dahl also welcomes. Well, at least I do, because the truth is, if it had been up to Mr. Kim, it wouldn't have been up to Mr. Kim. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who invented the benefit reform that was introduced, many of these people had had 0 kr. We've secured a support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223215	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223226	Thank you for that, President. On Tuesday, when I went to the church for a party service on the occasion of the opening of the Danish Parliament, a message clicked on my phone that it was rumored at Christiansborg that there would be a referendum on the reservation of the law. I sat down in the church and, while listening to a very good sermon, I was so concerned that it really made sense, because it is clear that a government that does not feel so great on the programme for the coming parliamentary year, and which will have the time to go until there is a parliamentary election, must of course be offensive and have something on the wallpaper, must put something ahead of the Danes and say: Now we are doing something offensive. So I thought that in this way it would make politically very good sense for the Prime Minister today, that is to say on Tuesday, to issue a referendum on the reservation of law. It can also be said that for those who believe that there is a major problem with Europol and who want to resolve it by changing the legal reservation, there is also a logic in that of course. So I thought the pieces fell into place a little, and I was doing our campaign. Then I come back to Christiansborg after church time and then be met by a journalist who says to me: Do you realize that an analysis group is being set up? An analysis group, I say. Yes, an analysis group which is now to assess the consequences of a change in the legal reservation. Well, I said. So how long are they gonna sit here and assess it? Yes, they must sit and assess it to the other side of a parliamentary election. Does this mean that it is like the benefit area, where there must also be a commission to assess matters after a parliamentary election? Yeah, that's kind of right. And then I got that thought: Well, that's right; there's gonna be a good solution tomorrow or next month or maybe after the next election, at least a good solution for those who want to change these things. And the offensive that I had been preparing for, which the Prime Minister had launched here on Tuesday, failed. When you then digged a little further into the subject of the legal reservation, and that of Europol, the fact is that the government is actually doing something quite wrong with the Danish people. The fact is that if you respect the legal reservation, you can at some point ask the Danes if they want to change it, but then you have to do it at the front door and also at a time when the Danes have an opportunity to say: No, thank you, we want to solve the challenges with Europol in a different way: we know what you call a parallel agreement with the other countries. But with the way you now do it on the part of the government, you want to drive things up to a point, so the Danes are asked at a time when the race for a parallel agreement has been run, that is, where that option no longer exists. And why? Yes, because what on earth should get the other EU countries to negotiate a parallel agreement with Denmark on an area where Denmark itself has told the other countries that we will do it ourselves by changing the legal reservation. So in reality the government has now made it to the Danish people that one shows that one has no respect for the legal reservation that one does not want to give the Danes real choice. One wants to ask the Danes at a time when the Danes are being pushed up against a wall and are being told that there is no alternative to changing the legal reservation, as the government wants. Now, that's not a fair way of conducting politics. It is not respect for the Danes who wanted the reservation of law. That's not a dignified way to do it. Therefore I wanted to use my second round because I didn't have time in the first time it was on the note, but the time had passed to stress this relationship and hope that we can have a debate on it, because I don't think it's a respectful way of doing it to the Danish people. The fact is that those who think that there is a real problem with Europol should take the lead in negotiating a parallel agreement, as it says, an agreement with the other EU countries that Denmark can also exchange information in the future in relation to criminals' cross-border behaviour. But as far as I can understand, there has been no contact between the government and the Commission on this issue for months. This is not something that has been negotiated, and it is likely that negotiations with the Commission have been stopped at a time when it has been decided to try to resolve this in a referendum rather than in a referendum. But if a referendum had been held at a time when it could be said to the Danish people that it really had some choice, it was actually more respectful than what the Prime Minister is now going into with the Danish people. So I should like to express my deep regret at the way in which it is dealt with. I think it is a pity, but we must take the discussion with the Danish people. After all, it is they who must decide in the end, and then it must be clear to the Danish people what method it is that the government has chosen to try to push through its views.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223717	There are three brief comments. I'm gonna have to ask you to keep your conversations down a little bit. It's a little annoying from up here and from below too, not being able to hear it all. First of all, Mrs Ida Auken for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223732	I am standing here with the older folds of the Danish People's Party. I could understand earlier today that the billion that the Danish People's Party has dropped off on their financial bill was to be used for nursing elderly people, and it is not in this leaflet. How are we really going to finance that, for example? All public transport to folk pensioners must be free of charge? We couldn't understand that. But is it the higher elderly check for the most disadvantaged elderly, or how will you do so if you have spent all the money on the care-intensive elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223813	It could be that there was a lot of talk in the Chamber before and during my speech, because it didn't care so much about this legal reservation. It may be there's such a big break that it's a good way to do it to the Danish people I hope it's not. I hope there will be a real discussion on what the Prime Minister has set in motion in the legal field. In relation to the question, I would say that we have also discussed it earlier today. And we have never concealed the fact that the Danish People's Party has a wide range of ambitions on behalf of the elderly, in relation to what needs to be done, and that is not something that is solved from one year to the next. What we ensure, of course, is that when there are certain things that we in the Parliamentary Chamber or in a debate on finance we are fighting to get through, we are also giving funding for it. And what we have assessed is the most needed in 2015 are means to ensure better care, more time for the care-intensive elderly, and that is why we have focused the real elderly billion we have set aside for next year for that very thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223916	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223916-2	That is to say, out of the 11 things promised to the elderly, there are 0 priorities for next year and funding for which we are, of course, promised to make our proposals. Is it true that 0 of the 11 proposals for the elderly in the older fold are going to be spent next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009223943	It can be said in this way that if the money that had been set aside this year is the billion that the government claimed had been set aside to give the older people better conditions had actually been spent uncut for the elderly rather than at the same time getting 1 billion. kr., cuts 1.3 billion. kr. with the other hand, so that there will be less money for the elderly net, perhaps there would have been an opportunity to spend some of this money, that is, the ones we are proposing now, on other things too. But when we have to deal with specifically what is going on in the municipalities, how many home help lessons have been cut away in recent years, and that the older billion that the government brought in this year, that is, with the other hand, has been snatched again in municipal savings, we just have to say that as we can then see, and when we discuss these conditions, among other things. With the Elders Case, what we are told is that there is a need for more time for the care-intensive elderly. And then priority must be given to where the need works most, and that is immediately in relation to the most care-intensive elderly, and that is why we propose and have set out funding for how more money is going to be spent on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224049	Sir. Jonas Dahl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224051	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said back in August, and I quote: The Danish People's Party will not contribute to a policy where there is zero growth for many years. Quote out. Today, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl then pulled a little ashore, and now the chairman of the Danish People's Party suddenly no longer saw whether more money would come to welfare if the Danish People's Party's Prime Minister's candidate were given power. Is it really true that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti no longer know whether Dansk Folkeparti will add votes to zero growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224123	No, that is to say, one can say that one gets a déjà vu now in relation to the debate we have had in the past. I think these are the same questions that are being read out again. But that's fair enough, too. I tried to have a debate on the legal reservation, and it may be difficult in this Chamber, it has to be said. Our policy is based on the fact that there must be more money for welfare, that there must be real growth in the public sector corresponding to what we chose in 2011, a real growth on this little technical figure 0.8%. Until 2020. That is what you vote for if you vote for the Danish People's Party. And then we will fight to get our policy through after an election. If there is one thing in the question, which has also been common throughout the day, whether we want to make ultimate demands on a change of government and what policy should then be pursued, then the answer is 'no' any more than I imagine the SF makes ultimate political demands in order to support the Prime Minister after a parliamentary election; I certainly have not heard it, not once during the day, but I can become wiser now, when Mr. Jonas Dahl is given the floor again, i.e. whether SF operates with ultimate political demands in order to support Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt after a parliamentary election. I would very much like to hear it if that is the case. I haven't heard anything about it at all, but it'll be new and exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224229	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224229-2	I would like to answer questions when I get to stand on the platform. But it's Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who himself started the debate on ultimate demands. And when he says that he does not want to contribute to zero growth, I guess it's also fair that we should take up this discussion. But then let me ask you another way: Kristian Thulesen Dahl at least add votes to the growth of the public sector if, after the next election, there is a majority in the Folketing for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224252	We are going to vote for there to be real growth in the public sector, and we are fighting for that. And if there is a majority in the Folketing after the next elections for real growth in the public sector, I can imagine nothing more than that there will be real growth in the public sector as well. Well, that's a strange way to deal with it. After all, I have also made commitments on the subject of unemployment benefits. There is a majority, I understand, in the existing Parliament no, there is then not, unless the Social Democratic Party will be with us and that is probably what the SF is using in relation to the autumn budget negotiations, so to say: a majority has been found in the Folketing to do something. And then SF uses its role to pressure the government to help change on some terms. I guess there's a fairly comparable situation here. What then is the question now is whether the SF stands firm, holds firm in the autumn, or whether they are at fault for other things that the government may offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224349	Mrs Karin Gaardsted for the last brief remark in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224353	Thank you. I'm back with the fold, and there are 11 really good things in it. I am simply so confused when the rapporteur stands on the floor today and says that it is not any of these promises that the rapporteur will make with the billion which the Danish People's Party intends to devote to the elderly. I don't understand. But it says that all transport for pensioners must be free of charge. Can the elderly count on the next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224437	I have to ask the Social Democratic Party whether the Danish People's Party has now really been allowed into the heat. Because when we were in a meeting on the Finance Act as recently as yesterday, I did not get the impression on the Minister for Finance that we were in a real negotiating process. But if the opposite is the case, so that we can really influence the elderly too, then we would be very happy to do so. Then we'll see how far we can get. Of course, we need to start from the parliamentary situation, which is as it is, and the government has said that we are doing everything we can to reach an agreement with the SF and the Enhedslisten. Then we have to say that if we are to have a real influence on Danish politics, direct political influence, it may well be that we have a little indirect influence now, we think that we should have a change of government. It can be seen in 2001 that in the same way as this older pamphlet we had a series of things that we wanted in the area of the elderly and that we also put forward publicly. And if you look at what we got through during the 00s, there is a great deal of agreement between what we wanted in 2001 and what we slowly achieved over the years. In exactly the same way you will know the Danish People's Party in the future. If we get into a central role, we will again see that we can, of course, cross the areas by area of the things we have wanted, because we will then get through them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224550	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224551	The Danish People's Party is still handing out this booklet with the 11 things in it. Today we have got area no. 12, namely special care for those who require special care. What Should the Elderly Believe? If they're gonna assume that next time we're in this situation, we're gonna have a promise number. 13 or No 14? So, what order can the older ones expect to have these promises fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224627	I do not know whether the questioner remembers that at the Social Democratic Congress some proposals were in place to improve conditions for children. And Mr. Mogens Jensen, who was the pen operator on that program, was asked by a journalist how to finance these things. So says Mr. Mogens Jensen I have quoted it earlier today and I would like to do it again: 'Now this is a longer-term work programme, and it should not be implemented within a financial year, but it is quite clear that when we put forward concrete proposals on the basis of the programme, we will of course give funding. See, the way we work and the way the Social Democratic Party works are not so different when it comes down to it. We have some visions of how society should evolve. So has the Social Democratic Party. A line is drawn for this, and if there are specific proposals on the basis of what is being put forward in this Chamber or on the basis of a debate on finance law, then we also have the funding to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224723	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Camilla Her as a second-round radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009224738	The Folketing has been opened. It has been a great day, including for Leonora, who got new roller skates from the opposition's prime minister candidate. If the intention was for the Radical Left to lose its foothold and no longer stand firm, it will fail. Nevertheless, thank you very much and thank you for a good debate. The impression I am left with after today's debate is that there are two very clear directions for where Denmark should move in the future. In the discussion on the economy, the differences are clear. We will continue the reforms because it allows us to prioritise and invest in education, in health, in psychiatry, in welfare. This allows us to create growth and jobs, and it allows us to help the very weakest in our society. The alternative has to be found somewhere between Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's gift book and Mr. Anders Samuelsen's potato cure, but we don't know exactly where. No one from the blue bloc can and will answer that. But with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl at the back, we can at least be sure that it will be completely reform-free. In the discussions in the social field, the differences in it Denmark, we will invest massively in giving our children opportunities in life, not only formally, but in reality. The Denmark we want is a Denmark with equal opportunities for everyone. The alternative is so blue block Denmark with the reintroduction of poverty benefits, more poor children and punishments to 12-year-old Denmark with a zero growth that does not afford to lift Denmark from scratch or to invest in our welfare. When we talk about the green, I have not heard a single word from the blue block today about the green transition. Never mind climate change tomorrow, as long as it becomes cheaper to be a Dane today, the motto seems to be. It's symptomatic, it's disappointing. We want a greener Denmark. We bring Denmark out of the coal age and into the future. After today it is quite clear that the blue block is completely visionless. The climate seems to be only something you care about when there is international attention and you get to knock with the hammers at the Bella Center. Much of the time in this Chamber today has gone by discussing our relations with the outside world. Here, too, there is a clear difference between Denmark, we welcome the people who come. We'll help as much as possible. We take the necessary steps to integrate those who come to our country and we give them the certainty when their families can come up here. In the blue block there is no welcome. Here you will turn refugees at the airport and ask people to find themselves a camp in Africa where they can stay until they can return to their homeland. It's colonialism version 2.0. But the reaction may not be so strange, for if you cannot see Indian food in the cafeteria, people fleeing foreign lands must be a great mouthful. After today's debate, there is a fairly clear picture of how different Denmark can develop under a social democratic government and a left-wing government respectively. We want a safer, greener and more open Denmark. Blue block is exponent to a reform watch, black and closed Denmark. I know what kind of Denmark I believe in, hope and dream that Leonora will celebrate his future birthdays in. We believe in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225235	Then we have three brief comments. First, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225238	Thank you. The UN is out tonight with a rather harsh, serious criticism of Denmark and the government's proposal that people fleeing from the Islamic State of Syria should no longer have the right to have their children safe immediately here in Denmark. And I would like to read out what the UNHCR says this evening. They say: If we are talking about Syrians where we believe that the vast majority are refugees under the international convention and you do not immediately start to bring family reunification, then you are on the edge of international law....There continues: Denmark must continue to take its international responsibility and recognise those who come to Denmark as refugees and see that they enter the Danish community as soon as possible, and that also means that they can be brought together as soon as possible....It is a very serious criticism of Denmark and of the government's proposal, the UN comes along here. Does the Radical Left make that impression and can the Radical Left live with a proposal, a policy so badly criticised by the United Nations?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225357	Of course it makes an impression, and of course we will take that criticism seriously and go into it. That is also why, as I have repeatedly heard calls for today, we are not going to rush through the legislative proposal. After all, we are going to put it forward, send it to consultation, take stock of the consultation answers that come and be in dialogue with all the relevant parties. We are not going to do anything that is contrary to international conventions. We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225435	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225435-2	It makes an impression. Well, I'm glad to hear that. Does that lead to action? In fact, in these statements, the UN is rarely clear, they say directly: these people are refugees. That is why, of course, they must also have the rights granted to refugees by the Refugee Convention. And that means you have the right to have your children safe immediately, not in 1 year's time when it suits the government, but immediately. Why even try to make a legislative proposal that deprives refugees of their right to have their children safe immediately, since the UN is so clearly telling us that it is at odds with international law?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225538	I think I said very clearly that we are not going to do anything that is contrary to international conventions. Having said that, it is just as clear that we have considered carefully what the content of this bill is. After all, we have assessed this in relation to our perception of the conventions and what we should offer refugees. I know that we will not be able to make this proposal far away from countries with which we usually compare ourselves. But that is what a consultation process must also contribute to. And I would like to repeat, if it has not been heard, that we are not going to do anything that is not in line with the international conventions that we have signed, obviously not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225627	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225631	Thank you. When the former party leader Margrethe Vestager ascended into the black tower and put his teeth in a Fair Solution and Fair Change and de facto became the head of the government, there was no doubt about the radical policy. You stood firm on principles, you were clear in your tongue. Two weeks ago, in consultation with the Minister for Integration, we were told that there could be no question of amending the asylum rules on family reunification. A few weeks earlier, we discussed the possibility of taking action against the many young people who allow themselves to be radicalised and go to war with ISIS. At that time, cognitive family therapy was supposed to help prevent, later it was then the inclusion of passports, punishment and other things. What has happened in the Radical Left over the last few weeks? Have you ever been cornered? Have you been put in place? Can the rapporteur give an explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225720	I'll try to be as educational as possible. What is happening right now everywhere in the world is that the world is moving in the wrong direction at very, very violent speed. We are not the only country that is taking special steps when it comes to ISIL, far from it, even in relation to our own citizens, those who are deeply disturbed are going down to support something that I think can best be described as a terrorist movement. We're not the only country that does that. What has happened is that reality has gone from evil to worse, and we believe that we need to respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225806	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225809	But I would like to sign for that, and I think it is wonderful that the Radicals are now living in the world that we other peoples are also. I just think it is impressive that the firmness of principle and the conviction with which one has previously communicated one's policy have so quickly had to give way to decisions which until recently have fought against the radical line in this area, both in terms of how to combat Danes who participate under the banners of the Islamic State, and also in such an important area of radicals as asylum and immigration policy. However, when the rapporteur says that we are now listening to reality, I can only rejoice and wait for the Radicals to change their views on a whole range of other points in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225849	I think it's too soon to be happy. But may I not just say that claiming that we have had special principles, which we have been advocating for years, about how ISIL is to be combated, I think that is simply nonsense, because it is a relatively new movement and it is a relatively new phenomenon that we are also seeing our own citizens take down to support a terrorist movement. I also think it is very natural that in such a course one should start in one place and be prepared to take further steps if it turns out not to be enough. And that is unfortunately the case in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225926	The last brief remarks in this round are from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009225930	Thank you, President. In other words, it is also a question of the restrictions on asylum which are being debated, where I simply cannot understand the scope of what Mrs Camilla Hersom says here. In other words, the Ministry of Justice, the government, has judged whether it is on one side or on the other side of the international conventions, and the fact that some say that something goes to the edge of some convention, we have heard many times before when there have been proposals up. Does that make Mrs Camilla Hersom tremble and nervous about this proposal? In other words, are we now hearing a radical rapporteur pulling ashore in relation to what the government has put forward in relation to the austerity announced? There has been a change over the last two and a half weeks. Two and a half weeks ago, family reunification rules would not be changed; both the Minister for Social Affairs and Integration replied in writing at the press conference and the Minister for Justice afterwards that family reunification rules would not be touched. But that's what you've learned from Tuesday's opening speech that you'd like to do with this group anyway. Is it not on the basis of the fact that there has been a real government discussion about the international conventions, i.e. whether it stays within them or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230049	That is exactly what I said in reply to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, that is to say that we do not, of course, put forward anything which has not been assessed by the best lawyers we have. But I think, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will agree with me that law is the subject of interpretation, and therefore it makes an impression when a UN body makes a statement. But that does not lead us to withdraw the bill; we send it in consultation as we have planned, and then we take in the consultation answers, and then we take the discussion on that basis. I think that is a good quality of law; that is the way to go about it. Then I just say quite quietly: we will not be involved in anything that is contrary to the conventions and, if there are accusations, we will have to clarify whether there are any teams. But I do not think so, because of course we have assessed it in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230144	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230146	After all, we have had this type of discussion many times before, and it is quite right, as Mrs Camilla Hersom says, that in these cases there is often nothing that is stubborn, that is to say, that is exactly what it is, because it is up to an interpretation. But my point here is that if this is up to an interpretation and it has been assessed in the Ministry of Justice, and if the Ministry of Justice says that these tightenings are okay, will it be the case that a hearing answer from Amnesty or from Danish Refugee Aid or from a UN body that says that it goes to the edge will affect the opinion of the Radicals, in relation to whether to implement the proposal, now that the Ministry of Justice has otherwise said that it is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230227	Since this is my last reply from the platform this evening, I would like to say something that may surprise Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and that is that we actually take the consultation process seriously, regardless of the legislative proposal. That's what we have it for. The government is putting forward a legislative proposal, and here we are doing our best, its absolute best, to achieve what is the purpose of the law and, of course, to keep within everything that a legislative proposal should do in a constitutional state, a constitutional state which has also endorsed international conventions. And if there are serious criticisms, then we will look into it. So, yes, it makes an impression if there is an indictment against Denmark, we take that seriously. But I would also like to say that we have done our preparatory work as well as we could. Now we have a consultation process. As far as this bill is concerned, it is going to go when it has to, so that it can live up to good legal quality, just as any legislative proposal should.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230332	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Is there a rapporteur from the SF who wishes to speak? Sir. Jonas Dahl has become rapporteur. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230346	Apparently, this height thing is now a issue for many of us in here. It hasn't been before, but I'll take that on board. Denmark is a success story, said Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in her opening speech earlier today. We have just been, because we have taken a joint stand. What is interesting today has been that the bourgeois parties are fighting internally a brave battle over who can fastest complete that success story. We can see this in the area of unemployment benefits, where, in the midst of a deep economic crisis, the penalty was doubled for the thousands of hardworking Danes who had just lost their jobs by significantly reducing their unemployment insurance. It has so much shaken our entire flexible model in the labour market and thus at the very backbone of Danish society. Now the bourgeois people come up with proposals for massive public cuts, in which thousands of posts such as nurses, teachers and educators, social and health assistants are being closed down. An ambitious climate plan has also been cancelled. The most interesting thing today has, of course, been the fact that the only thing we have been able to get out of the Left, which is the opposition's largest party, at least yet, has been a couple of roller skates. I think it is commendable that we should also give gifts to the Radicals, but with all due respect: is that what we can do? There is no political news. It's kind of buzzed up, and you can see that when you read various speeches in the media, in a couple of roller skates. We have not been able to get any significant news, we have not been able to get any answers to what we are getting with zero growth, we have not been able to get any answers to what the content is with zero growth. Who's gonna be fired and where? No, in short, we have once again witnessed what must be said to be the loser strategy of the bourgeois parties. That is why I think it is thought-provoking that the losing strategy should help to tear down the society we have been building for so many years. For Denmark has not become a rich society by having the lowest tax or the worst welfare or the lowest wages. On the contrary. We must build on the values we have. We must build on the forces we have in Denmark. That is precisely what has created a unique society that unites economic prosperity, sustainable development, personal freedom and social security. In fact, I would also like to sign here mid-term for one thing, as a bourgeois politician said. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said earlier from the platform that I felt that now the Danish People's Party also backs up after an election, not only about the demand for return, but also about, if there is a majority for it, the public growth after the election. In fact, I think that was the only interesting news we could get out of the bourgeois side today. And thank you for that. Another thing is that an important part of the Danish success is our flexible labour market. It creates security for those who lose their jobs. We have a social safety net where, on the other hand, companies can easily adjust if they need to fire or hire. It is the crank in the Danish daily allowance system, and it is our safety net if we lose the job at times. Over 60,000 people are about to lose their entitlement to unemployment benefit by the end of next year. This is also the reason why we from the SF are calling for action now. That is why I would like to call once again on the government to call for negotiations so that we can find a solution to the unemployment benefit problem. If the Socialist Group in the European Parliament wants to take part, there is a majority in favour, for example, of halving the recovery requirement instead of turning it into a corner in a Commission, because in the end we run the risk of being in a situation where, unfortunately, the right to serve must be left to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. I guess it's the man who carried out the whole attack on the cash benefits model. Therefore, a call to the Socialists: let us act now! From the SF we are also preoccupied with a good primary school and good day care institutions. We are concerned with getting more educators in the day care institutions so that the children get the attention that is so important. At the same time, we are concerned about ensuring sustainable development, both at home and globally. This requires both good legislation and political action. That is why I am also looking forward to the financial negotiations that have begun so little, because we need to give priority both to our children, our primary school, our environment and our climate, because in the end we also need to take responsibility, not only for the society we have, but also for the children who are going to grow up in future Denmark and the society of the future. Denmark is a strong society, a society that brings out the best in all of us, not least in our businesses. We must continue to do so. But it requires everything else to be equal, that we dare invest in our children, that we also dare invest in a new unemployment benefit solution, but dare invest in primary school, in our planet and new jobs. That is why the call is again: let us take the task together. We have done this for many generations, and this generation needs to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230851	Then we again made three brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230855	Thank you. I just have one very simple question for Mr. Knox. Jonas Dahl, and that is such a yes/no question. It's always nice at this time of day that it's simple questions where you can get a simple answer. Will the SF, in connection with the forthcoming parliamentary elections, make politically ultimate demands to point to Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230922	No, we do not, as a starting point, have ultimate requirements. We are going to go to the polls on our policy; I do not think that is a secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230929	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009230931	Well, it's exactly as I expected it to be. That is what I have been putting into my answers all day when I have been asked many things. But it's amazing how sir. Jonas Dahl could ask me questions earlier. We had a little round here when I was on the platform, which was based on the idea that the Danish People's Party should make some ultimate demands. Why does Mr. Jonas Dahl, that we should be different from someone we point to as Prime Minister than the SF should? I mean, why do different conditions have to apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231004	The difference is, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has been out to deal with it. He has been out in the press just to say what kind of demands he wants. I'd like to sign for it, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said a little earlier on the platform, precisely that the Danish People's Party would like to add votes if, after an election, there is a majority for both another unemployment benefit and a continued growth in the public sector. I think that is a good thing. I would also like to say that we also want to do so by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231031	Mrs Lene Espersen, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231034	Now there is nothing easier when it comes to making difficult decisions than creeping in a flight hide and then saying: let the others do the dirty work, and then let us spend the money when they roll into the box. Sir. Jonas Dahl has spent quite a lot of time here in the second round this evening criticising the 2010 recovery agreement, which contributes 22.8 billion to public finances. kr. kr., the government itself boasts of having until 2020. And my simple question to Mr. Jonas Dahl is: how will SF find the money if you are opposed to the reforms that we have implemented? What's SF's response?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231121	SF has two concrete proposals for resolving what we are facing right now in relation to the unemployment benefit reform. After all, we have put that out very openly, and I am sorry if Mrs Lene Espersen has not heard. However, I would like to repeat this for the sake of Mrs Lene Espersen. We have proposed two things: 1) To halve the right to re-use, i.e. the right to re-use, i.e. how many weeks you have to work to regain the right to benefit. We're going to halve it from 52 weeks to 26 weeks. 2) To permanently make the labour market benefit that we were in government together with Enhedslisten got introduced a year and a half ago; we propose that we do it permanently in the third year, because it is important from the SF that we actually also ensure some of the people who unfortunately have not found work no matter how much they have done to find a new job. We must recognise that some people have still not been able to find a job because we are still in a recession. We want to take responsibility for them, and that is why we are proposing to extend the temporary labour market benefit and to make it permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231217	Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231218	Well, I didn't ask Mr. Knox. Jonas Dahl on how Mr. Jonas Dahl could spend even more money. I asked Mr. Jonas Dahl on how the SF will find the 22.8 billion. kr., which SF will not stand for. What the SF is moving into now SF will then spend even more money... is to trump the Liberal Alliance in negative public growth if the figures are to be linked. So I ask the question again: if the SF will not stand at the target of the many, many billions that the recovery package contributes to ensuring that money can also be given to the welfare state, how will that money be found? Because I assume that SF wants to be a financially responsible party. We need to get something that contributes to the sustainability of the Danish economy, not something that worsens it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231311	I have, in all silence, just proposed the two amendments we are proposing from the SF. We are not proposing a total roll-back of the benefit reform; we are not proposing all sorts of other things. We are proposing two specific things, and we have financed these two things in the way we have put forward in our draft budget. I would like to overlook it again if it is the case that Mrs Lene Espersen has overlooked our draft budget. That's what we've been saying all along. And there is room for funding within the economic space that the government has put in place in the financial law negotiations that we have started so little. So this is essentially about how to choose to use the funds that are available. I understand that they would rather be used for tax cuts and all sorts of other things, but from the SF's point of view our priority is simply that we would like to use the money to halve the recovery requirement and to make the temporary labour market benefit permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231359	Now it does not look as if there are any more brief comments. So I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. Then I have to understand, sir. Finn Sørensen has emerged as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231422	Thank you. Today's a gift day, so I brought you a present for the Prime Minister. It's a gift that I promised a year ago to pass on to the Prime Minister from an anonymous citizen. I met the citizen at the premiere of this movie called "The Road Away." It is clear that vicious people will immediately believe that it is some kind of manual for the Prime Minister about her future, but that is not the case. It's a very serious film about what happens in a small family, wife and husband, where the husband gets hit by dementia. A strong and touching film, but also frightening, when you look at the conditions in which the demented and the next of kin are covered. It was actually very good that time went by, because now I can instead of a reminder because that's what the citizen wanted with it, that is that the Prime Minister should remember this problem • hand over to the Prime Minister such a little well-deserved reward, because the Prime Minister has brought a section on dementia in his opening speech. Here the Prime Minister proposes that 100 million of people with dementia should be put in place so that people with dementia can have a better everyday life, better housing and better relief for their relatives. I am particularly pleased with a sentence saying that we should not act over the head of the elderly. In this context, I would like to draw the attention of all Members of Parliament to the letter we received from the Alzheimer's Association here on Tuesday that was in our mailbox. It is also frightening reading, unfortunately, with frightening examples of neglect in the country's nursing home, where we all know that the majority of residents are demented and that there will be many more of them in the years to come. I hope everyone has read or will read that letter. This leads me to say to the Prime Minister that we are going to spend more than the 100 million proposed by the Prime Minister if we are to meet the challenges in this area. Therefore, Enhedslisten has made a bid for this, which is called "Remember Dementia." It was written before I realized that the Prime Minister had remembered, but that's why it might be very good for all of us with that headline. Our main message is the same as in the Alzheimer's Association and is also discussed among a number of organisations that have joined forces in the so-called Dementia Alliance. We simply have to look at the standards in the country's nursing home. We need to ensure that there are adequate health professionals present for 24 hours a day. After all, the situation is not better in the area of home help, as I have already mentioned some examples of this earlier in the day. As the FOA has pointed out, the cuts continue despite the fact that the municipalities have got the famous elderly billion. It is totally untenable for a billion to be allocated for a lasting boost in the area of the elderly, but it is simply being put into an ever greater cut-off hole and not even enough to cover the savings and cuts that are taking place. That is why we also need to discuss better home help in the budget negotiations. We need to find a mechanism to ensure that if we in the Folketing allocate some money to a lasting increase in an area • in this case, the older area • that is what is happening. There are also other mechanisms we need to change legislation as a judgment in the Supreme Court, which gives municipalities the right to cut back on home help or deprive the citizen of home help, even if there has been no improvement in the functioning of the citizen. We need to ensure that rehabilitation, which everyone is in favour of, does not become a tool, a coercive tool for municipalities to save on home help. So there are some important issues we are going to discuss. We simply need to ensure that there is a lasting increase in care for the elderly in the context of this year's Finance Act. We cannot be aware of the conditions to which our elderly fellow citizens are exposed today. They are entitled to a dignified old age, a dignified treatment when they are affected by dementia and have less ability to function. I fear, of course, that if a similar study were to be carried out on the other welfare areas which the FOA did this summer in the area of the elderly, there would be a similar picture that cuts will continue, including in primary and day-care schools. It is, of course, a consequence of the economic policy pursued by the VK with the support of the Danish People's Party and continued by the current government. We strongly disagree with the policy of Enhedslisten, but it does not exempt any of us from the obligation to resolve the specific problems that exist in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231916	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009231919	Thank you. After all, we have discussed very much today whether the parties agree or disagree, and to what extent they agree or to what extent they disagree. That's where I just noticed that one of Mr. Knox's... Finn Sørensen's last remarks earlier this day in connection with the first rapporteur's speech were that none of what the government has done has benefited growth in Denmark. I just think that this really shows that there is a gap between the government and the parliamentary basis. But what I saw speaking to just ask was actually to follow up. Because there's been a little time since the first round, so now Mr. Finn Sørensen also had the opportunity to dive down and perhaps get a little more ready to answer that particular question. So what economic growth in the public sector, i.e. real growth, is the policy of Enhedslisten going to be here in the years to come, typically by 2020, which is the time the government is planning and to which other parties are also required to respond? So what is Enhedslisten's plan for how the public economy should develop by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232029	Thank you. I think that if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl sits down and reads the minutes of what I said earlier when they come in writing or on television, he will not be able to find the sentence he quoted me for. I have not said that none of what the government has done has benefited growth. I dealt with the central issue of the economic plans which the government is pursuing and which are, of course, similar to those which the opposition is pursuing, apart from an important gap between zero growth and 0.6% growth, namely that they are based on the same basic premise. And what was my main point is that there are none of the plans, including the one in which Kristian Thulesen Dahl supported the former bourgeois government, which leads to what is claimed, namely increased employment. As far as the second question is concerned, I do not think we are going to go further than we were this afternoon. The Enhedslisten has some principles. Frankly, we are not giving a kick for those 2020 plans. After all, none of them work as intended. After all, both sides have a number of problems of explanation in relation to where they are going to get the funding. The government also has a problem with something of 12 billion. kr. In terms of efficiency of the public sector. Where are they supposed to come from? We still have some answers to that. We are dealing with concrete initiatives that benefit welfare and employment, and we make sure that they are employed and apologize, funded when we present them. Yeah, it's a little late, so I'm sorry I'm messing with language.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232204	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232205	I'm not gonna take away from mr. Finn Sørensen to become a little gentler, as the day slips and becomes evening, and I should very much like to reread the specific quote when it comes in writing. I don't want that to separate us. In relation to this growth, it is a misunderstanding when some people are running around thinking that Enhedslisten's economic policy by 2020 is based on the fact that the public sector is that I understood Mr. Finn Sørensen earlier today; there, too, can I have been wrong at least as a minimum to grow immediately as the general development of prosperity in society? In other words, that the public sector as a minimum has to grow as wealth grows in Denmark this afternoon. I believe that what has been put into the 2020 assessments is 1.8%. or 1.9%. on average, and if so, then the public sector must grow immediately. Then it would just mean that if you spent that money on hiring people, then you could hire it completely wrong?• something with 60,000-65,000 more in the public sector by 2020 than the government imagines. It is just to try to find out what the range is actually between what Enhedslisten wants to be conducted by economic policy in Denmark in the coming years and what the government wants to pursue by economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232319	I've been mild all day, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. It's not something like that coming up the day. I also received the answer to that question earlier. The Enhedslisten attaches enormous importance to creating some employment, including in the private sector. If, for example, you're gonna have to... realized 3F's great plan for 50,000 green jobs, well, then it's if that's the math we're going into... not so awful many public employees. But then I just want to say that it doesn't scare the Enhedslisten if we go and hire someone in public. Actually, there is a need for that. When we look at the economic policy that Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself supported the previous government in the cut-off campaign against the welfare of the municipalities • then it started in 2009 under the former government with the support of the Danish People's Party. That is why it is sometimes easy to feel nauseous when the Danish People's Party hascelerates over the cuts in the area of the elderly, because they themselves have paved the way for this by supporting the economic policy of the previous government; by supporting the budget law that today has placed the municipalities in a tight financial straitjacket.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232438	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232448	I'm actually just gonna sum up. I think it is clear after today that we have a government that has become stuck, that we have a government that has run out of ideas and that we have a government that has given up. On the other hand, we in the Liberal Alliance have made our policy absolutely clear: we want a policy that is on the side of the citizens; we want to be the lawyer of the weakest in the Folketing; and we want better conditions for business. It is well known that one of our major means of funding is more efficient, and I would like to take my own medicine and take the lead in stopping the speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232534	Thank you very much to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Mrs Lene Espersen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009232542	Well, I would like to stress that this is not something I have agreed with Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, but it fits perfectly with the fact that five hours ago, I said to Mr. Ammitzbøll. Finn Sørensen, that we probably weren't done for 5 hours, at least between 4 or 5 hours, and now I'm standing here again. I'm gonna do it a little longer than sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll. I also think that in many ways it has been a debate which has been very marked by repetitions and perhaps also by a very predictable course, in relation to how this type of debate goes. One might say that the innovation has been that we have been allowed to celebrate Leonora's 5th birthday in a couple of laps, and it has actually been very entertaining. I actually choose to finish off a little dry perhaps, but the record of what we are saying in this Chamber is being written, which is why I really think it is important to clarify just three things. We have heard both the Prime Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur, Maja Panduro, bomb the VK government about how irresponsible it was in the time of the VK government. I would just like to ask those who follow the debate here today or read the minutes tomorrow to go into the Financial Committee's response from 2013-14 of Question No. 388. The Minister for Finance's reply shows that out of the 52 billion. kr., which contributes to our being able to afford to keep our welfare society moving towards 2020 and which comes from reforms, the reforms of the VK government, together with the Danish People's Party and, of course, for some, along with the Radical Left, contribute 90 per cent. The 10%. comes from the time of Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister. That is the case, Prime Minister, even though the Prime Minister is commenting on it. The Prime Minister delivers just over 5 billion. kr., and we deliver the rest. That's the way it is. Then Mr. Jonas Dahl made a mistake, and I can't help saying that here. When you push Mr. Knox... Jonas Dahl by asking how Mr. Jonas Dahl would have done it differently from what we did through the '00s, and it ends up with a cold answer that Mr. Jonas Dahl is on target for everything, but just wants the recovery period changed. As I'm hearing, sir. Jonas Dahl, sir. Jonas Dahl now also targets the 52 billion. kr., and that is the whole pipe eye, also the reduction of the top tax by 6%. And everything else. Somehow, that's good news. The next thing I would just like to say quietly here is that the Minister for Finance also answered another question on 30 June 2014. That was the answer to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 349 from Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party. The reason I highlight that answer is that throughout the day we have heard Mrs Maja Panduro talk about zero growth and talk about how terrible it is. And I just have to say that if you look at the answer and look at Table 1, you get confirmation that right now, under the current government, there is a minus growth in the municipalities. It is so that if you look at the figure for 2011, you can see that number is 300 million. kr. greater than the figure applicable for 2013. It is just to say that the whole discussion of zero growth and minus growth reflects to such an extent that the Social Democrats do not even know what their own policies mean in the municipalities. The third and last thing I want to say is that I find it quite thought-provoking that all day long blue bloc parties have been required a detailed response to what we want in relation to a 2020 plan. I would like to say to the Prime Minister, who called for such a plan from the Conservative People's Party, that it is online. We have made a 2020 plan and are completely at the goal of the things we describe there. But I would say that I then asked the Prime Minister a question, and that was whether the Prime Minister would stand up to the 2020 plan that the government itself has. The PM wouldn't. I think that is absolutely incredible when we have been asked throughout the day for answers to what we want. I hope the Prime Minister comes back up and tells me if you go to the polls.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233011	Thank you. Then there are three brief comments, Mrs Ida Auken first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233014	I have actually clicked on the Conservative website, and here I can read about the law of plans, which is referred to as a law that provides protection for the smaller cities and the open country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233031	I would say that we believe that there should be a dramatic change in the law of plans. Unfortunately, it has developed in such a way that it is impossible for real, very many of our cities to develop in an appropriate way so that we can preserve jobs. And we are not talking in any way about the destruction of nature and the destruction of everything, but it has just become too rigid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233056	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233057	So I would like to hear: is it the coast protection that needs to be changed? I mean, are these the open shores that you no longer want to protect in the same way? Are those the open shores?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233109	Mrs Ida Auken has been Minister for the Environment, and I think Mrs Ida Auken means beach protection legislation if that is what we should be discussing. But now Mrs Ida Auken asked about the law on plans, and I would like to give an example. Now we have celebrated Leonora today, and if it was the case that Leonora had not turned 5 years old, but had been 1⁄2 years old, then perhaps somebody wanted to give Leonora a baby present. It is the case that the planning law creates so many restrictions today that of two baby shops lying next to each other in Odense, one of the baby shops will be able to send cribs and chairs and everything else. But you can't sell sucking bottles. The store next door, located in no. 6 and No Eight must sell it all. It is the law of plans that places a restriction there, and I think that is absolutely insane. It is quite obvious that things like this need to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233205	Sir. Jens Joel for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233206	I understand that the Conservatives are now going to scrape the law of plans and that you want someone else. So I'm just gonna ask, what's it gonna say?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233220	Well, that's for discussion. We simply believe that we need to start all over again and get some people to work on a proposal that gives municipalities greater freedoms to ensure the dynamic development of the local environment, while at the same time doing so in a sustainable way. I'd like to say to Mr. Jens Joel, that it's completely incomprehensible to me that you can have some rules that mean that in one store you can sell suck bottles and in another you can't. Then the law of plans has simply gone too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233250	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233251	How does the Conservative People's Party, which I understand is very proud of its green profile, want to secure nature in the law of plans that you will not say anything about what to stand in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233306	Now we have allowed ourselves to say that we do not believe that all legislation in here should be poured over with concrete and could never be changed. This is an area where we actually think we need to rethink it all. The fact that we are demanding legislation is, in fact, also a signal that it should not be the Wild West, but there are too many restrictions in the way our legislation is administered today. Now I gave the example of the baby shops in Odense, but another example could be up from West Himmerland Municipality, where an organic farmer who wants to grow carrots and peas in a bed cannot get permission for it. It seems to me quite crazy, therefore, that we have legislation that imposes so many restrictions on what people themselves can do without disturbing our beautiful and beautiful nature. I think we should simply try not to start over, so at least make some changes, so that sensible, enterprising people can be allowed, for example. to grow carrots and peas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233408	Sir. Per Clausen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233409	After all, it is no more than two years since I had the pleasure, together with the Conservative People's Party, of adopting some amendments to the law on plans. At that time, the Conservative People's Party was very concerned about ensuring that there is also the possibility of having shops in the small towns. In fact, the law of plans was seen as a protection. Does the Conservative People's Party still believe that, and should it still be taken away when it comes to redeploying the law on plans?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233445	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233446	I'm very happy about that. But what really needs to be changed in this area? On the one hand, we must solve this major problem of what we can buy in two different shops in Odense, and, on the other hand, we must ensure at least the same essential consideration: that we protect shops in the smaller towns. Mrs Lene Espersen knows as well as I do that there are very many places where they would like to have a large store, because they would like to be able to compete with another big city, even if they know very well that this leads to the small shops in the municipality risk closing down. We know this from Mrs Lene Espersen's old home municipality, Hjørring, and the municipality's relationship with Hirtshals. So how will Mrs Lene Espersen ensure that both needs are met?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233528	Well, that's actually a very good example, sir. Per Clausen comes along because what I think is really important, if we are to take the example of Hirtshals and Hjørring, is that we still give Hirtshals the opportunity to develop, and if the law of design becomes a straitjacket, then the city dies. What is of course our very great concern is, in fact, that there is much of what we so beautifully refer to as Waterside Denmark, which dies out if we do not allow for development. I would like to say here that I think it is very good that Mr. Per Clausen asked me the first question about large shopping centres etc. We don't want to patch up all of Denmark with them, but we can just see that there are too many examples • our party chairman came with a stripe on our country council; I don't demand that the Danish Parliament has followed the entire National Council • that we make straitjackets, and we do so especially in those areas that need development most.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233617	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009233627	I know it's really late now. As a privateist, we come into the series of speeches here at the very end and with very short speaking time, so I will try to do so fairly in principle. Well, I have a political ambition that I share with probably everyone in this Chamber: that we want Denmark to be the best country in the world. But I also have an ambition that Denmark should be the best country for the world. And there we have some challenges. We have some challenges when it comes to how much Denmark uses of the planet's resources. We are one of the countries that spend the most, and we consume the most by only three oil states. Since 2003, we have also participated in a number of wars around the world. The other day we voted to send F-16s to Iraq, which means that this is the way we conduct our foreign policy, that is how we enter into the conflicts. And again, I want to say that we can do better. If we look at European policy, I would say that we feel very ambivalent about it. It is clear that the position is ambivalent in this Chamber, but it is also ambivalent in Denmark. All these subjects are some that we have hardly talked about today. On the other hand, if you sit down there in the back row and hear what is being discussed, the government and the opposition are competing on who is the best administrator of the welfare society that we know today. There is also a competition for who has the tightest refugee policy. Growth, growth and growth are then talked about, and everyone knows very well if you think that if we continue with the growth strategy we have today, we will drive the land directly beyond the environmental edge. So how do we develop a new economy where we do not produce more but produce better? There we have to solve the equation: how do we reduce the consumption of scarce resources while increasing the quality of life for citizens and also ensuring that society is still an equal society? It's the political equation I want to solve with those who want to solve it with me. And, of course, it takes the courage to imagine a radically different future, that is to say the desire to discuss: what kind of economic model is this? In fact, I believe that a great many Danes are ready for this. Right now, there are experiments with shared economy. There are experiments on how one company's waste can be another company's resource. People stop owning and start subscribing. This means that at the moment a new economy is emerging, and that is what we, as politicians, can help to support or not support. One of the things I am proud of is knowing that we have actually done it before in Denmark. In fact, we have dared to have the courage to change radically. We celebrate the 200th anniversary of primary school. When was it that we decided on a reform of primary school? We did so the year after Denmark went bankrupt, and yet there was both political motivation and willingness to invest in the common good. And it is the same kind of commitment, and one can say strong entrepreneurship, strong social inventiveness, that must help to rethink society, as we understand it today, because if we do not do so, then we are simply driving the planet just beyond the environmental edge. In fact, I have here at the end of the day a hope for this assembly, and it is to be allowed to experience that the Prime Minister at some point says to Lars Løkke Rasmussen: The question you ask, I understand that is a good question. And I also have a hope to experience Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen tells our Prime Minister: The answer I have received is a good answer. I would like that instead of experiencing this eternal competition between the two blocs. And I think there are a lot of Danes out there who have been following this debate that doesn't understand how it can be that the discussion is going on at this level. So let us have the courage to imagine a radically different future, and let us make another kind of political culture, including here in the room.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009234119	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. There are no questions. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009234126	Dear Parliament and dear Prime Minister. Allow me to draw your attention to the tragic disaster that is taking place right now in the Kurdish city of Kobani in northern Syria. While we have been sitting here discussing this evening, many have demonstrated outside and demanded support for Kobani. In Kobani, Kurds and Arabs, Christians and Muslims fight a united but very lonely fight against the extremists from ISIL. Since the people of these areas threw the Assad regime on the gate three years ago, a diverse, secular self-government has been formed, a democracy that includes not only the Kurdish majority population in the area, but also the Arabs, Christians and other minorities. Now this people are facing a massacre and Denmark is not helping Kobani. For over 3 weeks ISIL with heavy weapons has been attacking Kobani, for 3 weeks the world has been watching. The American air bombardments are not enough. The Americans themselves say so in their own statements. And the Kurds are crying desperately for help for the weapons and ammunition that can stop ISIL. The Kurdish, Christian and Arab forces in this area have been fighting and fighting ISIL for years, but they lack the armored missiles that are needed to destroy the tanks that are currently rolling out and fighting in the streets of Kobani. We have suggested from Enhedslisten that Denmark should help with this. Most recently, the SF has announced that they're backing up. We saw a united Parliament decide that weapons should be sent to the Kurds in northern Iraq, but in relation to northern Syria it has been rejected. At the same time, we see how Denmark's close allies, the NATO country Turkey, have actively opposed the Kurds by keeping the border with Kobani closed. The Kurds in Northern Iraq, whom we in the Danish Parliament have decided to support with weapons, have reported that they are ready to send their soldiers to Kobani to help. They have asked Turkey for permission to transport their forces through Turkey, but Turkey seems to have denied them this access. So the Turkish President, Erdogan, would rather see the democratic and diverse autonomy of northern Syria destroyed than the fight against ISIL. But it is not in Denmark's interest that Kobani should fall. It is not in Denmark's interest to crush the democratic opposition to ISIL. The Prime Minister opened Parliament Tuesday by saying that if we do not act against ISIL, then we will duck. But why does the Prime Minister appear for ISIL's advance in Kobani? Why does the Folketing appear for ISIL's advance in Kobani? The UN has called for all those who can do something to protect the civilian population in the city. But why is Denmark doing nothing to help the civilians in the city of Kobani? I fear that the world will witness a new Srebrenica, that thousands of lives will disappear while the world is passively watching. I think it's an unbearable thought. I would urge the members of the Folketing to work to ensure that the Kurds in Kobani receive the weapons and ammunition they need; urge the Folketing to put pressure on Turkey; urge the Folketing not to duck, but to rise up in support of the democratic forces in Kobani, who are currently fighting the extremists from ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009234547	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no brief comments. Sir. Kristian Jensen as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009234602	I had just said: at the strong request of Mrs Maja Panduro. However, since both the Prime Minister on Tuesday and the Socialist rapporteur today have sung on the false melody that the government has taken over a craftsman's offer of an economy and subsequently had to clean up the economy, there are a few things to put in place. The Prime Minister almost claimed without shame that the economy was not dealt with under the VK government, and Mrs Maja Panduro is historyless enough to say: we are, in fact, those who have managed the economy in contrast to the government we had before. Fortunately, however, the Minister of Finance is now under ministerial responsibility when questions from the Danish Parliament are to be answered, which is why for once I am very pleased with Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen of the Enhedslisten, for Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen asked on 14 August whether the Minister for Finance would explain how much money had been released through the implementation of reform of the welfare and tax system since 2008. Here, then, we get the answer to who has taken the responsibility of correcting the Danish economy and ensuring that public finances have been strengthened so that we have been able to cope after the international crisis hit us. So what does the Minister of Finance say? Well, the Minister for Finance answers clearly that 90%. of the completed recovery of the Danish economy comes from reforms that were agreed and implemented by and under the government of the VK. That is what has corrected the Danish economy. It is spring package 2.0, which was the major tax reform in 2009. What has corrected the Danish economy is the recovery package with the unemployment benefit reform of 2010. What has corrected the Danish economy is the agreement on later withdrawal from 2011. The three agreements, with the Minister for Finance's assessment, represent 90%. of the recovery that the public economy has been through since 2008 • 90 per cent. of the recovery. What has further marked the reforms that have brought Danish economy up to date? It has been that the Prime Minister, Mrs Maja Panduro and the Socialists were against them all. Not only were they opposed to the reforms, but they went directly to the elections for the abolition of the reforms, which the VK government, together with the Danish People's Party, took responsibility for implementing. And now the parties are trying to distort history so that it seems that the government has always been behind those reforms. But let me be quite clear: no matter how many times you try to distort history, you must not succeed, because the Minister for Finance must stick to the truth, and therefore you can just lean on the Minister for Finance's response to who has implemented the reforms. It goes without saying that when the VK government stood for 90%. of the recovery, yes, the SR government has only stood with and without the SF for 10%. But more interesting is the fact that it is more interesting that while SF and S did not once and the Radical Left only once took co-responsibility for difficult decisions under the VK government, the Left has been there every single time. And every time we've pulled the government in a more ambitious direction and made the reforms bigger and more robust, no matter how many times the government and its rapporteurs try to turn black into white and take credit for economic reforms that we promised to dispose of, you won't succeed. The Left stands by, takes responsibility for and is proud of the reforms that we carried out and the improvements to the government's proposals that we have achieved. It is the reforms of the Left that give Denmark the strength to invest more in private jobs. We want to move on. We will carry out job reform and reduce the tax on small labour incomes so that work pays better. Within the spending freeze, we will increase the appropriations twice as much as the government wants in 2015 for health and cancer treatment. We want to invest in private jobs by removing burdens and costs which make it more expensive and difficult to operate, thereby creating more jobs here in Denmark. That is our policy. That is our plan, and we hope that it will soon be possible to implement it after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235041	There are three short comments. First, sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235044	Well, welcome to the debate. It's fine that new people come in all the time. But I would really like to ask you something quite specific, because it goes to the real President of the Left, whom we shall probably call him, Mr President. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Among other things, he spoke. to Berlingske in May • quote: • I will not be Prime Minister at all costs. If I'm going to be prime minister, I need room to carry out my policy.... It's a little interesting. Now we have heard Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says today that the Danish People's Party will vote for economic growth in the public sector, they will vote for unemployment benefit changes after a choice. If there is a majority in favour of continuing growth in the public sector, making changes in the area of unemployment benefits in terms of halving the right of return, is that something that the Left will also support after elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235137	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235138	First of all, I can tell Mr. Jonas Dahl, that if it is pleasing with fresh people, there are more in the ranks of the Left to take off, so that we can easily get the debate to continue, so long as Mr. Jonas Dahl needs answers to his questions. To the question of what will the Left, if we are allowed to form a government, is the answer that we have clearly said that our starting point is a public starting point. We say this because we believe that one of the world's largest public sectors is large enough and that what is needed, also in order to ensure the future of our welfare society, is that we invest in and invest in more private jobs; it is that we create a situation in which Danish companies can compete better so that we can get some private jobs back. It is the private jobs that are the basis of the tax revenues that make us have a welfare society in Denmark. And the government, unfortunately supported by the SF, in the financial bill we have seen, does nothing new at all to create more private jobs. We will if we are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235235	Sir. Jonas Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235237	It may well be that the question was worded vaguely, I do not think so, but now we just got such a svada about everything that the Left would like. It's okay. That is not what I asked, I asked quite specifically. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said: "I will not be Prime Minister at all costs. If I'm going to be prime minister, I need room to carry out my policy.... Then I ask the Vice-President of the Left, and it is fine if there are even more Vice-Presidents in the Left who want to take part in the debate, then for my sake they should be welcome to do so, but I am now asking the new rapporteur in the Left, and I would like a concrete answer. When the Danish People's Party now says they want public growth after a choice, they want unemployment benefit changes after a choice, then I ask: will the Left also support it, or is the Left for sale? I would like to know what the position of the Left is. If there is also a political majority to have public growth, to do something about the unemployment benefit system after an election, then the Left will support it, or does that mean that the Left President, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, will give up Prime Minister's office?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235333	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235334	Well, I'm sorry if sir. Jonas Dahl did not listen, and I will repeat my answer. Our starting point is a public spending freeze. That is our starting point. That's what we've been saying from the start. We want the public sector not to grow further. But it is clear that we must negotiate with the parties that will point to a bourgeois-liberal government with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as Prime Minister. We don't want to go through with what Mr. Jonas Dahl and SF did, namely to promise one and do the exact opposite afterwards. We do not want to make a turnaround and break a promise, just as the Socialist People's Party and the Socialists did when they finally got the government power in 2011. In relation to the unemployment benefit issue, we have said quite clearly that we would like to help make the benefit system better if it could be done without it becoming more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235429	Sir. Rasmus Prehn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235433	It can soon be a very long evening if the entire Left Presidency is to be on the platform and to give a speech. But now, when sir... Kristian Jensen has gone to the platform, I would like to take this opportunity to ask about something which Mr. Kristian Jensen expressed his views on the issue of user charges for health on 27 June 2013. Sir. Kristian Jensen said that... If you are going to have an open and open debate on user charges, you cannot exclude any areas in advance. I'll tell you what, sir. Kristian Jensen deny that the Left will charge money to go to the doctor?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235511	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235513	The Left has no proposal on user fees for medical visits. We have a proposal that is quite clear: we would like to see a review of whether the user payment can be converted into the health care system • the user payment we already have today so that we would have a fairer user payment. The fact is that, however much the Socialists try to close their eyes to it, we already have user charges for approx. 13% of the total health costs, but they are just very, very unevenly distributed. So let me be very clear, sir. Rasmus Prehn hopefully also understands this: the Left does not want more user charges, but a fairer user charges, and we have no concrete proposals other than a commission to examine whether it is possible to make a more concrete and fair distribution of the user charges that we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235603	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235605	It was so clear that I too could understand: the Left will not rule out the fact that we have to get the dance card out when we go to our family doctor. I understand, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has said that, in a personal sense, he would not mind having to take out his wallet when he goes to the doctor. Did Mr. Kristian Jensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235628	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235629	I feel that I have not taken a position on anything in this area, other than that I would like a fairer user fee. I simply cannot understand why the Social Democratic Party, which was actually prepared a few years ago to support a radical proposal to set up such a commission, has become so afraid of their own shadow that they are now running away from the area. The Social Democratic Party supported the Radicals' proposal to set up a commission to redeploy user charges. It may well be that we should have taken the chance at the time when the Social Democrats were brave, because after they have now seen that the polls are so bad, they consider that their best chance of coming back is a scaremongering campaign with loose claims. We in the Left have no proposal to charge users in specific cases for medical visits; we have a proposal that we would like to have a fairer payment for users, and we would therefore like to see whether this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235724	Sir. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235725	Sir. Kristian Jensen said to Politiken on 8 September 2014 on a matter of zero growth, and I have quoted with me here: "Yes, there will be fewer public employees. We just don't want to tell you how many. - Can you, sir? - Yes, sir. Kristian Jensen confirm the quote, i.e. that zero growth will mean fewer public employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235756	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235757	If sir... Jesper Petersen had also read the correction and clarification that Politiken subsequently brought, Mr. Jesper Petersen knows that the quote is about an increase in public spending and, of course, there are fewer public employees if you do not raise public spending. What is our policy is that we put forward an economy that allows us to maintain the same number of public employees and the same purchase of goods that we have today. The same public service can therefore be maintained. But we do not dictate to the municipalities what to do. I don't know if sir. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democratic Party will decide how each municipality and each region should distribute their funds between purchases and wages. 'Cause unless mr. Jesper Petersen will decide, sir. Jesper Petersen also does not say how many public employees there will be in municipalities and regions, because this is something that is decided on in a decentralised manner. Will pay be replaced by purchases of goods, for example, by offering part of the public tasks? Well, it's gonna be the second round then.
ParlaMint-DK_20141009235903	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010235909	Now the members of the Left have spent a great deal of the day waving financial answers, and I would just like to know whether the recognition and enthusiasm for financial answers do not also apply in this area, since Mr. Kristian Jensen will have just spoken against the content of the Finance Ministers' answers, which show that it will lead to fewer public employees if zero growth is introduced, a claim confirmed by the series of economists which Berlingske asked in the absence of being able to get answers from the Left. The question was then asked of a number of independent economists, all of whom agreed with the Ministry of Finance in the reply that was presented, as Mr. Kristian Jensen evidently also in the first place has stuck to when he gave a quote to Politiken, but perhaps then found out that it was not so clever to lift too much on the veil of the plan we still have not been allowed to see. The question is, does Mr. In this respect too, Kristian Jensen, the financial response which he has just stood up to and contradicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000017	Sir. Kristian Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000019	The Ministry of Finance responds on the basis of the conditions that are being put in and, if you put in a false premise, you get wrong answers. Let me therefore respond to some of what Mr. Jesper Petersen finally claimed that the Left does not have a plan. Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen answered clearly, but it must have been forgotten during the day. Then let me answer that. The Left supports the government's 2020 plan apart from one point. In other words, we agree on the long-term objectives of the Danish economy, apart from one point. Where, sir? Jesper Petersen and the government want the public sector to become even bigger, there to be growth in the public sector, real growth of 0.6%. a year, we just think that they 0.6%. We need something else: to invest in private jobs. So that is really the only difference. As concrete as the government's 2020 plan is, just as concrete is the plan of the Left, because it is the same, apart from one point. Indeed, we disagree as to whether to invest in making one of the world's largest public sectors even bigger or to invest in private jobs. Left picks the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000128	Thank you, sir. Kristian Jensen. Well, then, sir. Jacob Jensen asked to speak as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000146	I can hear cheerful remarks from the Chamber, but I will now start in the positive corner and say, addressed to the Prime Minister, that I actually sat down here in my seat on Tuesday and enjoyed the Prime Minister's speech. Actually, I did. She did it very well in her performance. There was great wordplay, a strong experience, a good performance. But of course there is one, but the content left a lot to be desired. Most of it was a review of history, as well as of the part of history which the Prime Minister thought it opportune to highlight, and of history, where the Prime Minister led the pen, and where the Prime Minister's thesis can hardly live up to the primary school's demands for source criticism. The Prime Minister concluded among other things: in his speech, and I quote: The good times ran out of hand in the '00s understood, one must understand that too much money was spent. But it was not the Prime Minister's party that proposed in the 00s to increase public wages by an extra 5 billion. kr., to mark during an agreement process? Was it not the Prime Minister's party that proposed to increase foreign aid by another 3 billion? kr.? Was it not the Prime Minister's party that suggested that an extra 1.3 billion should be spent? kr. to make public transport cheaper? Was it not the Prime Minister's party that suggested that there should be two teachers in each class, a promise of 4.5 billion. kr.? And was it not also the PM's party that suggested that the municipalities' financial framework should be increased by a further 12 billion. kr.? And was it not also the Prime Minister's party that proposed earmarked maternity leave for men? And by the way, it was probably also the Prime Minister's party that suggested that there should be a maximum of 24 pupils in the primary school classes. And wasn't it also the PM's party that suggested raising all transfer income by DKK 2,000?? The answer is. Yes, it was. And by the way, I forgot about the promise of the payment ring, but it's gonna be okay tomorrow. Common to these many promises is that none of them has been implemented. But I am not really blaming the Prime Minister for that, because it has been good for Denmark and for the Danish economy, but it is very bad for trust between the people and the politicians. I note now that new promises are being made by the Prime Minister and her party, and the question is therefore why the Danes should trust the Prime Minister this time. Before the last election, the Prime Minister promised that the unemployment benefit reform would be rolled back. The truth is, the unemployment benefit reform is still in place. Now the Prime Minister promises to roll back the unemployment benefit reform again. Why should the Danes trust the Prime Minister this time? Before the last election, the Prime Minister promised to create growth with a kick-start of the Danish economy. The truth is that the economy has stalled, growth forecasts are being revised downwards over and over again. Now the Prime Minister promises to create growth in the economy. Why should the Danes trust the Prime Minister now? Before the last elections, the Prime Minister promised that the financial framework of the municipalities would be increased by 12 billion. kr. The truth is that the municipalities spend less money today than in 2011. Now the Prime Minister promises more money for welfare. I ask: why should the Danes trust the Prime Minister now? I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister when all these new promises will actually be fulfilled. Are they in line for the previous promises that are still unfulfilled, or is the Prime Minister now wiped clean and starting a fresh list of promises? As I see it, it is almost a democratic problem and a democratic challenge that, with such clarity and on such striking points, there is a huge difference between the promises made and what is actually being implemented not only at the pace with which the promises are being implemented, but simply in relation to the direction of what was promised before the elections and what is now being done after the elections. I don't believe in zero growth, said the Prime Minister in his New Year speech. It is possible, but the Danes do not believe in the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000611	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. No one else has asked for the floor... was there suddenly one for a brief comment? Yeah. You can sign up a little sooner! Yeah, you can do that. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen will have a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000633	It's because Mr. Jacob Jensen says that the Danes do not believe in the Prime Minister, but is it not true that when you ask the Danes who they believe most in: the Prime Minister or Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, after all, are there more Danes who believe in the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000658	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000659	In the Left, we are not dealing with opinion polls.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000710	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000711	You barely have to follow up... don't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000722	Is there anyone else who would like to speak? There are many themes that have not been mentioned. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate has ended and we are going to vote on proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000741	The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 2 of Maja Panduro (S), Camilla Hersom (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Finn Sørensen (EL), and a vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 55 (S, RV, SF and EL), against 50 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 2 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 1 of Lars Løkke Rasmussen (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Lene Espersen (KF) lapsed. That concludes the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000835	The debate is open and there are 10 minutes' speaking time. Would anyone like to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141010000937	With the agreement of the House and at the request of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 3 on the halving of the recovery period for unemployment benefit is referred to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for direct consideration. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 10 October, at 10 a.m. 10. I refer you to the agenda that has been announced in the Chamber.
