ParlaMint-DK_20141113100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 69 (Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code. Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill No. L 70 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning, Nature Conservation and Building Law. Bill No. L 71 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on environmental contributions and compensation for the scrapping and scrapping of cars and the Law on environmental protection. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 25 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a Danish military contribution to NATO Resolute Support Mission in AfghanistanLidegaard. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100058	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100118	No amendments have been tabled. I understand that the Minister of Justice is acting as Minister of Finance at this moment in relation to the Chamber. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. It has been proposed that Bill No. L 1 referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I suggest that the Bills No. L 2 and L 3 go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100225	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100258	See, today a little piece of Danish history is being written. Today we are making a paradigm change. In the same way as a number of other countries, we no longer want to restrict dual citizenship. We have changed our position and our position for that matter. It has taken a long time to come to this realization, for traditionally it has been the view everywhere that dual citizenship was a mess to choose. But a lot has happened. Globalisation has led to more and more people going out and many returning home. Traveling between different continents has become easy and cheap. People travel out to work, thinking it should be temporary, but then it may end up being permanent. People fall in love across national borders and have children together, children who are put in the dilemma of choosing their mother's or their father's citizenship. We in the Left do not believe that people should be forced to make a choice that is not necessary. There is no need to force others to abandon their original citizenship because they want to be citizens of a new country. I love my two children, Kamma and Valdemar, equally, and you can also love your old and your new homeland equally. Just last week I was invited to dinner in New York by my old schoolmate Peter, who moved to the United States almost many years ago to work at a bank. He stuck around and had three kids. He is now married to a Dane who has also lived in the United States for a number of years. She is still a Danish citizen, and for various reasons he has had to give up his Danish citizenship and now has an American passport. Both of them are looking forward to becoming both Danish and American citizens, for that is how they feel. And they're far from the only ones. I have received very many inquiries, positive inquiries, from Danes all over the world who have been looking forward to the day today for many years, and I know that many are watching here today over most of the globe. I'd like to read from one of the many letters I've received. Dear Jan. First of all, I would like to thank you very, very much for your hard work on this matter. I have now been here 50 years, U.S. citizen, Danish married, three children, all former VUs, and so far eight grandchildren. I was elected to the municipal council of Hvalsø Municipality from 1 January 1982 and sat for six periods plus the additional year for the last 9 years as mayor of the Left. I was very pleased to learn that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you for your commitment. Liberals greet Virginia Holst. See, now we are bringing joy to Virginia and many others the agreement that we in the Left in the spring agreed with the government, SF, Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance about. Today, only seven out of the 46 countries in Europe do not allow dual citizenship. Once the law is passed, it's only six. In practice, the law means that Danes who settle in other countries will be able to retain their Danish citizenship while acquiring a new citizenship in their new home country, but it also means that resident foreigners will be able to retain their original citizenship even if they acquire Danish citizenship, and former Danish citizens will be able to regain their Danish citizenship if they have not committed serious crime in the meantime. When the debate on dual citizenship was held in the press in the spring, there were some practical concerns, among others. on military service and tax liability, the right to vote and the right to receive welfare benefits. I would like to say a few words about some of those concerns on the way. The obligation to provide services must be carried out in the country of residence. There is therefore no risk of double military service being imposed. The rules on tax liability shall not be amended by double nationality. The right to vote shall apply to the country of residence. If you live in Denmark, you have the right to vote in Denmark, and citizenship has only a very limited impact on the right to receive public welfare benefits. There are, in turn, lots of real problems for Danes abroad because we do not today allow dual citizenship; a little less problems for foreigners in Denmark. In many countries, for example, you have to pay a higher inheritance tax if you are a foreign national. There are posts you cannot get, boards you cannot be a member of, and you do not have democratic influence in the country in which you live. The Left would like to solve these problems. Finally, I should also like to mention that dual citizenship allows us to expel Danish citizens who commit crimes against Denmark, for example. terrorism. If, at the same time, they are nationals of another country, yes, then we can take Danish citizenship from them and expel them to their original home country. That is not, of course, the main argument for dual citizenship, but it is part of it. Denmark's rules must be modernised in line with developments, and therefore it makes good sense to allow dual citizenship so that we do not force people to choose their affiliation when there is no reason to do so, and therefore the Left is recommending that we adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100802	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100807	I'd really like to ask you something. The Left has meant the same as the Danish People's Party until quite recently, and one almost gets the impression that at the time when they thought the same thing as the Danish People's Party did, the Left did not think that we live in a globalised reality, and now they have come to a realization that we do so. In principle, I would like to find out what it is that has done, that the Left has come up with other ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100850	After all, a Prime Minister once said that you have a position until you take a new one. When you mean something new, you mean per. definition the opposite of what was meant the day before. Just when you come to that realization, it can be hard to say. What I can say is that it has been a long journey for the Left, and it has been a thought that has slowly matured and what exactly and at what point has led the majority of the group to believe that this is sensible, I should not be able to say. But I fully understand that this is not an easy question, and that is something that has been discussed in many other countries for many years, because the perception has traditionally been that people could therefore only be a national of one country. But there has been a development, and what exactly has made the position of the Left tipped is difficult to answer. I wish the position had also been tipped at the Danish People's Party, but it may be that we will get there one day. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100944	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113100946	Yes, but it is just to point out that one can always argue for development and say that it is the cause of development, but after all it requires that there must be some fundamental considerations that make one have changed one's point of view so that development does not just become a magic formula that one throws out. I do not believe that until today there has been any difference in what is called globalised reality compared to a few years ago. So I am simply asking after the fundamental considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113101023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113101025	I fully agree that the jet plane was not invented last week and that there are no other violent things that have caused globalisation to come either. It is not something that happens overnight. It is an ongoing development, and in the same way there has also been an ongoing development not only in Denmark, but in a number of other countries which have made it clear that what was previously thought that dual citizenship should be restricted has run out of time. When it ran out of it, whether it was last month or a year ago or five years ago, I cannot say, but at least I think it is a good thing that we can now adopt a law that is in line with developments and with which, moreover, we have no problems in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113101102	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then there are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Karen J. Klint as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113101112	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for the very sober review of the draft law and the very, very positive news that lies in it. Of course, I want to start with those too. It is a bill that will benefit a great many people and will not harm anyone. It's nice when we have some laws in here, which there are no negative side effects about. That is at least my starting point in today's draft law here, namely that there are no negative side effects. I can see that there is a rapporteur who is perhaps already prepared to make brief comments, but it is at least largely a bill that only benefits people. Precisely when we live in a world and at a time when we live in different countries either for development reasons or because there is a development in our own country that makes it possible to no longer live in our country of origin, it is very good that we also follow with legislation and open the way for people to become full citizens and full democratic citizens of the country in which they choose to settle. There's an inventory that says there's about. 250,000 Danes living in other countries who will benefit from this if they choose to. It is not a duty that you have, but an active choice that you have to make. We who sit with the citizens' cases in Denmark for foreigners who want Danish citizenship get a lot of stories that they think they just lack the very last thing to feel welcome in Denmark, but also to be active in democracy. And it actually makes an impression when we read about the fates of those people, where the reports like to argue why you want to be a citizen of another country. So there can be many different sources of it. That is why it is good that we, as politicians, should keep up with developments and take something new for us, and we do so in respect of the constitution we have. After all, we do not change section 44 of the Constitution, which says that obtaining citizenship is something that you get by law. It is not something that you go and pull in the magazine kiosk; it is actually something that you get by law, and therefore it is also wrapped in the ordinary rules that we have here. Then it is true, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, that there are all those we can welcome. Then there are a few things you cannot be familiar with saying black sheep or other things from here on the platform........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There will then be the extra range, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen pointed out. There is then a better opportunity to expel people if they default their Danish citizenship. This is a very good way of doing it, because we need to use dual citizenship for the positive development of democracy. It should not be used to cheat on the weight or to carry out acts of terrorism or violent criminal acts in the country in which you choose to settle. So I very much agree with the Left that it is very good that our negotiators have sat down at the table and have solved the Gordian knot that we should not bother people, because one is more globalised in one's privacy either because of love, work or otherwise, or because one's parents moved and so one is born in another country, and then there are those people who are not free to choose whether they can stay in their own country. In fact, I think it is a very great declaration of love from the people who are forced to settle in Denmark that they choose Danish citizenship for, but we can also talk about that in the next case. So all other things being equal, I would like to congratulate all those people who will benefit from dual citizenship, but I would also like to congratulate our negotiators because they have found a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113101511	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113101518	Thank you for the floor, President. For us, a 'no' to dual citizenship is not about the fact that you can love two countries at once. Love can be difficult to grade, so that you can love two countries: Of course you can. For us, it is more about the size of the nation state and the size of the citizenship, and the nation state and citizenship are, in principle, logical and spiritually linked. There is no doubt on my part that we are living in a global age, a global age, which is also running a storm against the pillars of the nation state, and that is precisely why it is worth holding onto the fact that there is one place where you belong, one place that protects you, one place that you fight for, etc. The nationality covers something deeper that has its basis in identity, the identity of the individual • being rooted in a certain place rather than others, being Danish, Danishness, that which, in relation to the political correctness of the term, one might call paternal love, which I think is a beautiful word. Nationality is not just a matter of a set of rights that you are given. No, it's about commitment, loyalty, connection, allegiance. When you go back and read the political debates that have been about citizenship, you see that then the basic rule from the introduction of democracy has been one person, one citizenship, and the fundamental question for the people who have dealt with it has always been loyalty: who are you loyal to? What team do you play? Whom do you fight for when it really matters? Should I put the matter at the forefront, we've had a discussion about these so-called Syrian warriors. What team are they on, who are they fighting for, whom are they obliged to when it really matters? But it is also a question of the general link with the country. If you go to the law on the acquisition and forfeiture of citizenship from 1898, which is a distinguished law drawn up by Deuntzer, you can see that it is precisely a matter of clarifying the relationship of loyalty. So, who is one loyal to when it really matters? In relation to what citizenship is at its core, it would be obvious to go to the language itself. We talk about the fatherland, and when we do, we do it on the basis of the idea that you only have one father. On the other hand, we can also talk about the mother tongue when we talk about the language closest to our heart. I know several languages, and there are among the languages I can, a few that I really love for various reasons. But I still only have one mother tongue. If I'm gonna express my deepest and deepest feelings, I'm gonna do it in my mother tongue. If I'm gonna tell a joke with the nuances that belong, I'm gonna do it in my mother tongue. Of course, you can love several countries at once, but you have only one country. That is the case with the country of origin, and that is the case with having a mother tongue. It is just as it is with your parents: we have not chosen them ourselves, they have been given us in advance. The same applies to the country of origin and the mother tongue. They are not a product of our choices, but a reality and a reality that is given in advance. And when we talk about citizenship, we express a loyalty and a commitment to the given reality, to the country which in turn makes it that is where you want to fight and that is where you want to safeguard everything that that country represents. For these reasons, we say no to dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102040	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102045	The logical consequence of what Mr. Christian Langballe says that one could not change one's citizenship, that is, that one had the citizenship one had from birth, and kept having it. I'm hearing it like that, sir. Christian Langballe casts doubt on the Danishness and loyalty of the foreign dancers who serve Danish interests around the world, but who also feel very close to the new country in which they live, but who, precisely because of their heart and their mother tongue and their country of origin, cannot make themselves disclaim their original Danish citizenship. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that the logical consequence of what is being said must also be that one cannot renounce Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102137	I am talking here about the rule, and in relation to the rule there are always some exceptions. You can then turn it around and make exceptions to rules, but the exception confirms the rule of this relationship. And I fully understand that if I go out and at some point have a love for the country I am in, then I can choose, and then the choice is mine. But as far as citizenship is concerned, it is by its very nature that it is not something that has been chosen in this way, it is something that has been given, and it is also possible to make an active choice. I agree with the rapporteur, but the second has to be said first, because that is the rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102225	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102228	It will continue to be the exception of dual citizenship, and the general rule will be that you only have citizenship in one place. Now the rapporteur himself also touched on the Syrian warriors. After all, there have been some Syrians who have Danish citizenship, and they are precisely proof that, as the rapporteur says, it is not a question of what is in the passport, it is a question of what is in the heart. In those cases, we would have the opportunity to deprive a Syrian warrior of the Danish passport if he also had a passport in another country because he has gone out into a war and fought against Danish troops. Doesn't that make an impression on the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102311	Well, I just need to understand what makes an impression or what doesn't make an impression. But I understand that it is clearly also a connection of the heart, just as it is with the mother tongue. So what you call the heart language is that there is something you stick to, and there is the rule that it is your homeland. Then we just think that, if you throw the dragons in somewhere else, you yourself make a choice, and then you have to choose with the implications and problems that that choice entails. I don't know if I got the answer to the question... if it wasn't for lack of will, but it was kind of because I was a little in doubt about what was being asked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102356	Then it is Mrs Karen J. Klint for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102400	Thank you. I will put my question a little differently than I had planned because I heard Mr. Christian Langballe say: The choice is mine. That is actually true, but it is also the choice when you choose between one or two citizenships when you get that option. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur would not like to elaborate on why there is an fear of loyalty, because loyalty to conduct is loyal to the country in which you live, not to the mind as a deliberate choice and not to the heart, where some claim that emotions are sitting?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102443	Yeah, but can I just go back to what I actually said? The rapporteur can simply dive into the historical sources and see what has been the case when citizenship has been discussed. So we go from a state where before 1849 one was the king's subjects, and where it was the king who, as it were, made one become the king's subject after some, so to speak, subjective choices. Then you have to have it here legally, and here it is in this process from 1849, 1866 and then to 1898 to clarify the loyalty relationship, because it is crucial who you are loyal to. I think that is certainly still a matter which citizenship also expresses, a relationship of loyalty. At least it is for me. For me, it is clearly a loyalty relationship to whom I am loyal, even if it is the case that Denmark and Spain play football. Although I think that Barcelona is a very good team, it is still Denmark that I agree with, and it expresses the connection with Denmark. That's what citizenship expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102555	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102558	After all, we agree that loyalty must be included. People who acquire dual citizenship and acquire Danish citizenship and live in Denmark also sign a declaration of faith and law that they are loyal to the Danish system. We do not change that, so we do not change the fact that it is an active and very conscious act, even with its own signature. So there's loyalty. Then it's really nice to have the historical explanation. But what we are legislating here is for the future. And I do believe that people today can handle the future in a way that can easily be loyal to more than one country, because loyalty is not in the heart, so loyalty is part of the conscious actions you take. So I'm really comfortable with the bill we're dealing with today. I think it will be a great pleasure, and I think it will indeed be a great deal of democratic joy, because there are a great many other people, many more people who will respond positively to the country in which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102657	I started by saying that I can easily understand that there are several countries that can be cared for at once. I really think you can, and I know people who really do. So there is no doubt for me about that. That is not what we are legislating for now. This is about dual citizenship. For me, citizenship is where you put your loyalty, and that is another question. Where is the obligation? What kind of country do you want to fight for? What kind of country is it that you want to cherish? For me this is what citizenship expresses, not only a right, but indeed a duty in daily life.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102743	Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102751	Thank you. In fact, I think it is an incredibly interesting philosophical discussion that we are out in here, which I have been listening to. I am not normally the rapporteur in this area, so it may be that I misunderstand a little, and I must apologise in advance. I agree with Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen in that Mr. Christian Langballe's argument in this way leads to the fact that it should not be possible to change citizenship, and then one should be against it. Sir. Christian Langballe then says that you can, because then you actively choose • as I understand the argument • a different loyalty relationship. I just can't understand why you can't actively choose two loyalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102834	Now, if I'm gonna try to explain what I was saying to Mr. Kim... Jan E. Jørgensen, then it was that the fact that you already have a homeland is the rule, and then there is what is called the exception, where for various reasons, and for those reasons there may be many, there may also be many good reasons, put the dragons in another place and say: Here must my future career, my future life, my future with my family be. And then, by virtue of it, you will have to make an active choice. It's basically very simple. But the rule is just, and that's also why it's called citizenship, that there's a place you're born. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102918	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113102922	Okay, I get it. Then I just cannot understand that if it can be the exception to this rule that you actively choose a new country for various reasons, then it cannot be the exception that you actively choose two countries for different reasons. I imagine that you are a foreigner, you come home a lot and there can be many different reasons. I think sir... Christian Langballe certainly has received lots of emails about all the different mysterious and more or less predictable situations people are in while travelling around the world. Why can it not be an exception to the rule that one actively chooses to lay one's loyalty in two countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103012	That is what I am saying, because that makes the exception the rule. It's very simple. Then you've made what is actually an exception a rule. There I would say that the exception confirms the rule. The exception confirms the rule in relation to citizenship. There is the crucial place where you are born, the place where you come from, your homeland, etc. And then there are exceptions, yes, I completely admit that. But we just take citizenship so seriously that we say: citizenship expresses loyalty to the country in which you are a national. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103056	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103107	It is a fantastic feeling to be allowed to stand here on the speaking chair of the Folketing and explain the views of the Radicals on the bill on dual citizenship. This is something that we in the Radical Left have been fighting for and proposing for many years. Double citizenship is about several things. It is partly about rights and partly about feelings. As it is today, there are many who, in great regret, have to give up their citizenship in the country of origin in order to get a new one in the country in which they have chosen to live. They usually choose to do so because they thereby enjoy the rights of their new fellow citizens. And I'd think I'd feel the same way. For example, if I moved to the United States, started a new life, my children went to American school, we lived a life completely like other Americans, then I think I would have the opportunity to have the same rights as my American neighbours, and not least the right to vote in the American elections. But at the same time I would find it extremely difficult to let go of my Danish citizenship, because there are a large number of emotions attached to that. In fact, I think most people in this Chamber will be able to understand that. It is therefore so gratifying that we are now allowing dual citizenship, because we can see that in a modern world there are many people living in a country other than what they were born in ordinary people who go abroad, get jobs, have a family and therefore have a natural future in their new country. We also give the people who have come to Denmark the opportunity to retain their original citizenship. Thus we recognise that we have citizens in this country who have a strong affiliation to their country of origin but who, at the same time, want to become part of Danish society. In addition to providing the possibility of dual citizenship for people in the future, we also want the foreign dancers who have renounced their citizenship to have the opportunity to get it back, even if it has been a long time since they have lost it. The agreement is an example of legislation that opens up Denmark. With dual citizenship, international view becomes law. I would like to thank all the parties to the agreement for an incredibly constructive course of negotiations. We in the Radical Left look forward to voting 'yes' at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103411	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103420	I want to say thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I should like to say the following: in the SF, we are very positive about the proposal. Maybe I could have said thrilled too. Now words that are excited are a little violent in the mouth of a North Jutlander, and therefore one can say that it may basically cover up the same thing. You could also say that it was just missing, because we ourselves have helped to make this agreement, which translates the government basis into this very area. After all, the draft law on dual citizenship puts us in line with a large number of countries in Europe. That's good. It adapts us to a time when it is more and more common to travel, marry across nations and change the country of residence. And that's fine and good too. Today, many Danes only have the opportunity to give up their citizenship if they wish to vote in their country of posting, want a job in the public sector there or to enjoy other civil rights where they have ended up. It's too poor. It therefore makes good sense for Danish citizens to retain their Danish citizenship in future, even if they move to another country and become citizens there, for we live in a globalised world, and with it follows the movement of labour. And even if some people choose to work in another country, this does not mean that their association and affiliation with Denmark become weaker; yes, sometimes you almost have the feeling of the opposite, and good for it. Now they're getting another opportunity. It's just fine. At the same time, our minorities, who live in a field of tension between Denmark and Germany on both sides of the border, have new opportunities to preserve both identities. This is important, although some of the Danes on the German side are cut off because they have not, as the claim is now made, lived on Danish soil. Perhaps this should also be a matter for us to deal with in this legislative procedure. Finally, we know that it may be difficult to resolve itself from initial citizenship, as some countries simply refuse to separate citizens. This applies in particular to persons with refugee status. It is therefore gratifying that foreigners in Denmark should also not give up their original nationality in order to become citizens. So for us and for heaps of Danes, it makes sense to offer dual citizenship, and while at the same time, in our best view, the proposal helps to promote integration and strengthen people's membership of Denmark, it is an absolutely good thing, because what strengthens belonging also strengthens the community, and we signal that all Danes are equally worth and that they are also very warmly welcome when they return. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103737	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113103747	Thank you. In line with the radical rapporteur, I would like to start by celebrating the day. I do not think I can fully copy the joy expressed by this bill, but will only agree on behalf of the Enhedslisten and say that this is something for which large parts of the Danish Parliament have fought for many years. It is not only an important ideological step into a globalised world; it is also an important practical and emotional step for many Danes. This applies to both Danes who live here, who also feel like other things, and Danes who live in the world and out there also feel like other things. We live in a globalised world. Identity and belonging, feelings and loyalty, which have been talked about today, can split into two. You can have your home in two places, and you can have your heart in several places. This applies to both Danes who travel out into the world and other people who come here and become Danes. In practical terms, it makes it possible to obtain rights on an equal footing with others in the country in which you live, and also to maintain the security to be able to return home to Denmark if you want to one day. That is why I would also like to say that I think it is very good that in the various discussions that have taken place on possible models for this, we have ended up on the full model, so that we do not confine ourselves to that, for example. only citizens of other Nordic countries, but that it applies to everyone and that we hugg the world in this way. I would also like to say that it is very gratifying for us to see that both the Left and the Liberal Alliance are included in this agreement, so hopefully it is long-lasting. After all, it is not going to be a party and colour all of it, so there is, in practical terms, also a legislative proposal that needs to be implemented, and so there are some things we would like to look at in the course of the committee's proceedings. This is true, for example. The deadline for recovery, in which the Institute for Human Rights has pointed out some problems in the hearing response. This also applies to a current problem, as the Institute for Human Rights also points out, namely that there are young people who cannot obtain this new form of citizenship by declaration because there are problems in obtaining a so-called'so-called'so-called' certificate. In addition, this bill, which is not part of the political agreement, also has an increase in the fee. It is a small increase, yes, but it is not, in fact, an increase that reflects the actual costs of the case-file, and that is why we have a little difficulty in seeing what it is going to do good for. A thousand kroner. is already a very high fee. This is not something we want to increase further, so we would very much like to look at in the course of the committee's proceedings, and we hope that it will be constructive work. Now that we are talking about fees, we would also like to point out the joy that this bill abolishes the difference between those who have Danish citizens as parents and those who do not have Danish citizens as parents. In the past, there has been a difference in what to pay in fees. This has been unfair discrimination, in our view, in which we have tried to raise the problem in the past, so it is a good thing that this amendment has been included in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113104155	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113104207	As has been said, this is part of what was in the government base, what was created in the Black Tower, and it is not because we can find a whole lot in the government base that we are particularly excited about helping the government implement. We are, as a general rule, very reluctant to do so. But blind hen can also find a grain, which is why it can be said that the government has, however, found an element in a government basis which is worth helping to carry through. That is why we are also ready to vote in favour of this bill, even though the whole area of citizenship is surrounded by a number of issues with which we do not agree very much. We will see this in connection with the next legislative proposal, where the red majority we have in Denmark at the moment says yes to a number of exemption applications from people who are not near integration, but only get citizenship if you can get a medical certificate on it. It's inappropriate. It is therefore also a pity that it is often mixed with questions of resolution, that is to say resolution from citizenship, and this leads me to say that it is quite right to have this bill implemented so that the people who come here, who want to get involved, are part of Danish society, it means seriously, should not be prevented from obtaining Danish citizenship, because one cannot be solved from the citizenship one has, as well as the Danes who travel abroad, should not be able to be refused citizenship because they have Danish citizenship. It is time to say calmly, and we also welcome the fact that this bill takes into account a number of years so that those who have lost their citizenship can get it re-acquired if they ask for it. So all in all, it is a good bill that previous rapporteurs have gone through perfectly, and I very much agree with the comments made by the rapporteur of the Left on what it means in a modern world to implement this bill. So it's one of the good days. We agree that it is a small corner of the story that we are writing here today, and we would like to praise the government for that by way of exception. This is not something that we burden the government very often with, but we are happy to do so today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113104439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113104449	As the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Tom Behnke, cannot be present, I have promised to give the speech on his behalf. We live in an increasingly globalised world. More and more people are moving from country to country, and future generations consider the whole world their home. It is for many as natural to move from country to country as it is to move from Copenhagen to Aarhus. This naturally leads to a discussion about dual citizenship, but one thing is to travel, a completely different thing is where you feel at home, where your loyalty lies and what you want to promote and fight for. We believe that the issue of dual citizenship creates a risk of a lot of inappropriate situations that we do not want. The Conservative People's Party's attitude towards the proposal is due to the concern expressed, among other things, by the Commission. the question of national affiliation, i.e. the whole concept of loyalty. It is about the fact that, with dual citizenship, voting rights can be obtained in several countries. We do not think that is absolutely positive either. Furthermore, there may be major problems with diplomatic protection, which may be problems of family law, problems with procedural and criminal law. Another thing that suddenly comes up is the question of the number of citizenships, because why stop double citizenship if you have first broken the principle of one citizenship? If you can have more than one, you can also have three, four, five, or six citizenships, depending on how many countries you can live in and associate with in a lifetime. Because of the issues referred to, the Conservative People's Party cannot agree to allow the acquisition of dual nationality in Denmark, and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113104644	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113104652	Thank you. Thank you for the broad support for the draft law here, which also translates into a broad political agreement. Like a number of the rapporteurs, I think it is positive that we are now going that way and allowing dual citizenship in Denmark. Much has been said, especially by the Danish People's Party, about loyalty. For me, it is a rather strange concept to work with when it comes to citizenship. I think I'd rather focus on identity. And I think there are many who feel that in a world where moving around is becoming increasingly common, association with Danish society can have exactly the same weight and role as when living here. And we have a lot of Danes who travel out to experience the world, to work and contribute to e.g.. a more peaceful development in conflict areas. Some take root, settle elsewhere, and many continue to want to have their Danish citizenship. Therefore, I think it is both sensible, good and wise that citizenship can be allowed to follow, even when you have lived for many years outside Denmark. In the same way, there are foreigners who come here who want to obtain Danish citizenship with the duties and rights which result from it, but who do not at the same time want to give up their previous nationality. So I welcome the support for this. We must, of course, be aware of the issues that may be involved, but I am not as concerned as the Conservative rapporteur is in what is being said here in conclusion by her. I would say that what we are doing with the bill here, which, after all, translates the agreement, is that we give full access to dual citizenship both for Danes and for foreigners. This means that there will be a repeal of the provisions in force in the law on citizenship that a Danish citizen loses his Danish nationality by acquiring foreign citizenship and that a foreign national has to give up his previous nationality in connection with the acquisition of Danish citizenship. I think it is important that we constantly focus on the possibilities for people to integrate, and citizenship of course means something to really, very many people. I think we should also see it in the sense that there are many people who, it might be said, have had to give up their citizenship, whether they are foreigners who come here or Danes who have left. That is why, and I hear many of the rapporteurs say so, this comes not least on the basis of a series of very specific incidents that people have been in. I think it makes sense that we can respond to that. Then there is a group of Danes who have wanted to retain their Danish nationality and who have not been able to do so before this amendment, and there we propose that, as at least one of the rapporteurs mentioned, a five-year transitional period should be introduced whereby former Danish nationals who have lost Danish citizenship can re-acquire it by making a statement on this matter. It goes without saying that it will be a condition in this context that in the period between the loss of Danish citizenship and the recovery of it, we have not, of course, been sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence. There will be a similar transitional period, albeit of a 2-year nature, for resident foreigners who have sought Danish citizenship and who have not been able to obtain it. Then it was from among other things. Enhedslisten's page raised that we also raise the fee. I think that is sensible enough, because there will probably be a larger application flow in this area. Thank you, however, for your broad support and, of course, I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105107	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105112	It is not really because I have not said what I think about this matter, but what can annoy me a little is that the Minister calls our point of view strange. Well, it's such a strangely unqualified claim that you can then make. What I have explained is that the view I have about citizenship fully follows the view that, when people began to discuss citizenship, citizenship was a matter of loyalty. The preparatory work for the law in 1898 was precisely to clarify the concept of loyalty, that is to say, who is really loyal to when it comes to it. That is the point I am making today, and that is no wonder. It certainly has something on it when it is the case that national loyalty has also been discussed in the past. So it's actually just to add that remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105217	I think it is because we are starting the discussion from two different places. It is true that the rapporteur says that you do not choose which country you are born in, but you choose as an individual what values it is, what characteristics it is, what traditions you want to carry on. I mean, there's nothing natural about that. After all, there are no major powers in charge of us. After all, it is an active choice that each individual must make: what do I believe in? What do I want? What are these values I want to fight for? So I hope at all times that the choice made by the Danes is loyalty and belonging to the basic principles of democracy, more than it may be to anything national. I think it is because we are starting the discussion in two very different places. For me, being a Danish associate and supporter of our democracy is more than anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105314	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105317	Well, I agree entirely with the Minister. That's probably where the dog is buried or how you put it. That's where the disagreement is. After all, the Minister himself has talked about rights and duties, and I would like to add to this discussion, because of course there are rights, and there is also a sense of country feeling. I fully agree with that, of course there is that in relation to what you love. But then there are some duties, and citizenship also expresses an obligation in relation to the country in which you have citizenship. So who do you agree with when it really matters? It is also an obligation, a duty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105356	No one else has asked for the floor. Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105412	The debate has been opened with Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105430	Again today, we have to deal with one of the legislative proposals that gives Danish citizenship to a number of people. Today, 1,607 adults and 888 children are born with their parents. For me, as rapporteur for the Left, it is always gratifying to be able to help ensure that a lot of people can add Danish citizenship to their identity. With their application they have already shown that they choose Denmark and will Denmark, and it is pleasing, because Denmark's doors are open to those who can and will Denmark and Danish values. Earlier this morning we discussed the proposal for dual citizenship in this Chamber, and the people we are now granting citizenship will also have the opportunity to obtain dual citizenship if they so wish. It may be because they also feel attached to their original country of origin and therefore want to retain their nationality. And fortunately there is a broad political understanding of that here in the Folketing. The Left welcomes the many new citizens and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105537	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karen J. Klint as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105546	Thank you. We have one of the annual decisions on who can obtain Danish citizenship on request. On the bill we are dealing with today, it is 1,607 people and they are listed in the bill itself. There has been some criticism in some places that it is difficult to find oneself with the system that is listed up in the list of names. I do not know whether it should be discussed at some point, i.e. whether you can stand there alphabetically or what you should stand there so that people do not have to run through all the names to find themselves. And when I take up that little detail, it is precisely to continue the debate that people see it as something very positive that, no matter what identity they have with them from home, when they come to Denmark, they also want to have a full Danish identity by getting a Danish citizenship, and therefore they look a lot for what number they have in the bill. I see it as a positive expectation and not as a criticism of the methodology. The Socialists can support the legislative proposal before us with the people who are on it. And I will say from the SF's rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here, that they are also voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113105721	Basically, I wish that we could take, as we did in the good old days, every single name on the list and then vote on it. In fact, there would be reason for that. I think you're still doing it in Switzerland when you're thinking about giving citizenship... it's about each one. When I say that, it is because I have no doubt that there are a lot of good people on this list, but I have also witnessed during the years when the government has been sitting, that in practice there has been relaxed and relaxed. In practice, this has been done by granting virtually all those who applied for it to the majority by relaxing the requirements. Now we are in a situation where every week there is a moving box in our offices full of dispensation cases. You might ask why there are so many. There may be several reasons for this, but it could be because people have found out that the government is dispensing as much as it does. I'm implying it, and that's it. The applicants ask that we ignore the language requirements, in other words give them citizenship, without necessarily being able to speak Danish, without necessarily knowing very much about Denmark. And that is what a majority in the Folketing of S and R and SF and Enhedslisten does. They're basically saying yes to everything. I know that exemptions are granted on the basis of ptsd, i.e. post-traumatic stress syndrome. When I mention this relationship, is it because I still think that when you suffer from a disease, you should be helped, but should you necessarily have citizenship? We do not think so. When I mention the cardboard boxes and the fact that a majority in the Folketing is currently acting as rubber stamp in relation to granting derogations, it is also to say why we cannot vote in favour. It is not because of the many good people who are on the list that we would like them to enter, but we cannot continue to say yes and yes to some people who we do not think meet the requirements for Danish citizenship. Legally, it is the case that there is a relaxation in the way that, for example, if you are born and raised in the country, you can automatically acquire citizenship when you are 18 years old. There is also a relaxation of language requirements, although this is a crucial condition, I would say, in order to be integrated into Danish society, that one can at least speak the language. This is where the government has relaxed its demands for language skills, which is completely the wrong way to go. The language requirements should, of course, be tightened. Then there are the practical relaxations. They are made in relation to the many derogations that are constantly granted. They express themselves physically in the moving boxes that are rolled into our offices every week, at least 300 cases per month. And as long as this is the case, as long as legislation and practice are relaxed, we cannot vote in favour of a law on citizenship. This is also the case. So a 'no' vote by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110132	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110139	It is always a joyful event, the two times a year when we here in the Danish Parliament welcome new citizens into our Danish community. Today our community is getting bigger, and when communities are going to work, we all need to take it on board, to take responsibility and to work together to make it strong and robust. I have no doubt that the 1,607 people and their children who are now being informed of their right of birth will fight and work for that, and I am also sure that by far, the vast majority of us who today form the Danish community will be pleased to welcome the new members. I will certainly do it here from the most fine platform of the people's regime, namely Parliament's platform. I would like to extend a warm welcome to all the new Danish citizens in our Danish community.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110244	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Is there a rapporteur from the Enhedslisten? There's one running right now. Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110311	Thank you. Sorry I'm late. I will say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we of course support this bill and congratulate all the new citizens on the Enhedslisten. It is a happy day for very, very many people that we would like to share in celebrating with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110335	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110339	This bill is, in fact, a problematic bill, because the bill goes on a number of individuals. It contains a number of people who, in our opinion, should certainly be granted Danish citizenship and we would like to welcome and congratulate them, but then it also contains a long range of people who get it here through a derogation application. It is, of course, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Christian Langballe, pointed out here from the platform, quite correctly, that this government may have been inspired by Enhedslisten in this area has changed policy in relation to the practice of the previous government, which means that almost per year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. This is ignored in these years by a bloc, so that it is almost an illusion with the individual case, because almost per year. automatically says yes to them. And we have a part of them on this bill, which in the case of the Danish People's Party has led to an assessment that the proposal cannot then be supported. That does not lead to it in the case of the Liberal Alliance. We will end up voting in favour of this bill because, as I said at the outset, there are a large number of people here who we believe should, but we do not think that this should be done on the basis of a derogation application, where, every time, when we dive into the moving box with cases that also come to my office once a week, we find individuals to whom a derogation should be granted, but where, in my view, it is almost a detective work to find those to whom we believe it can be accepted. So I am just pointing out the problem in the line that we believe has now been put forward, but we support the draft law in its entirety, because for the most part it follows the guidelines that have been adopted for Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110605	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110609	I should like to make a brief comment. Because we have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that it is approx. Three hundred cases a month, and that is not true, and now Mr. Leif Mikkelsen also says something about the cases in which we grant derogations. It is true that some of us are sitting on the committee called the Committee on Bodily Rights, where we also grant derogations, but we are doing so on the basis of clear rules. We are also doing so on the basis that people are serious when they want to have Danish citizenship and where they today do not have the opportunity to have double citizenship, and then there are rules on how to grant derogations. I think it is very good that these rules are there, and it is also a political debate that needs to be held when we have a constitution that protects it precisely in relation to who it is that can give Danish citizenship. But I strongly disagree with the statement that because there are perhaps some health reasons why you cannot pass an exam, you cannot become a good Danish citizen. I think we have some obvious, clear rules. It was just to make a comment that people are not poorer people in Denmark, because you have a health that makes you unable to pass an exam.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110724	Now it has nothing to do with poorer people; it is a question of giving someone a Danish citizenship because they would like to be integrated and become part of Danish society. I have not mentioned anything about the number, but I would like to emphasise what Mr. Christian Langballe points out, that is to say, the practice which is very cumbersome and which is very much a case-by-case approach, where entire moving boxes are carried in every week, which contain close to 80-100 individual cases to be dealt with, and which then receive a treatment where the result is given in advance because the red majority per year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. The questioner will know that when it comes to part of the procedures we carry out without having to uncover anything at all about the single case treatment • there has not even been an attempt to participate in Danish education, and then integration is incredibly difficult, not to say impossible. That is why we think it is wrong that it should not be taken into account in the procedure, which then leads to a 'yes' vote. That is just where I say that it is quite true that with the red majority there have been some real relaxations. We can then look forward to another time, hopefully, having another majority with a different view of this, so that we take more account of the fact that they can actually be integrated when they are granted Danish citizenship, what we would like to do when there are factual reasons for it. It is no wonder that there are some special rules for this which are being followed for most people. And then there are all the derogation applications, and that is exactly where you compromise on the rules of the game that have otherwise been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110902	Yes, please. Then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110903	Once again, allow me to correct the number of cases. When we have a lot of cases right now, compared to what we usually have, it is because there has been a hump of 1,800 cases that have been in place and which we are now wringing off in a very short time, which means that we have a build-up of cases or there is not that number. After all, only 30 matters are on the agenda as early as next week. So turn the drama down a little bit. Then I will come up with one small case, and very quickly, because I know that I spoke too long a moment ago, and this is about a lady applying for Danish citizenship. She's illiterate from her country of origin. She has taken care of her work in Denmark without sick days and has provided her three children with whom she has come here alone. She has a very traumatic past. She has been a good Danish citizen, she has worked, and so she does not harm Denmark by obtaining a citizenship. And we respect her by giving it to her.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113110959	Yes, but that is not the line when it comes to the number of applications we are dealing with, where, after all, there is the red majority per year. Mr President, I would like to make a few brief comments on this subject. We experience this week after week when we dive into the big boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111018	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111020	In other words, it is not every day that people are accused of untrue speech, so I would like the rapporteur to confirm that the fact I am mentioning is that we currently have 300 cases per month. It is estimated loosely, and it is actually a figure that I have from the birthright office which says that this is how the figures will be in the coming months. I have asked how many cases are actually coming and they say that these are 75-80 cases. I know that it is then a question of how many cases may be coming now and that there may not be so many cases in the future, but that is not what we are discussing. What I just wanted to ask you is this because that is what is crucial in this whole discussion: is it true that the red majority is largely in favour of everything, in other words the rubber stamp, as I have said in my rapporteur's speech, and as the rapporteur has indicated here? It can be said that in perhaps 80-90 per cent. of things just say yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111125	I cannot, of course, say anything about whether a rubber stamp is being used; I can only say that, having attended the meetings and the proceedings, my view is that yes a bloc is being said without any distinction to the issues we have raised here and which are unfortunate in relation to the granting of Danish citizenship. It is an automatic reaction, and it is something that, when you look at it historically, has changed in relation to the past, after we got the red majority. And that is why I have hopes for the future, namely that we will have a more responsible procedure in this area when we get a different majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111156	There is nothing more, so thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111212	Once again, I have promised to say this on behalf of Mr. Tom Behnke, who couldn't be here. The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal. Although we do not agree with the facilitations implemented by the government, we do not agree with the easing of the requirements for Danish citizenship, including relaxed requirements for Danish knowledge, but we recognise that the persons on the bill fulfil the requirements for Danish citizenship or have been granted exemption for special reasons. That is why we believe that people should have Danish citizenship, and we can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111251	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111259	Thank you for that, and thank you for your support for the bill. I cannot help but dwell for a moment on the rapporteur's speech from the Conservative People's Party, because I think that was an exceptionally good way of dealing with this area. One is that you can have political discussions about how to obtain Danish citizenship, but when those decisions are taken and that legislation works, I think there is something very, very good in that, for the sake of those people, you go up and say that, of course, when you meet the requirements, you are also welcome as a national of the country. So it's really just a receipt for a letter of credit that I think is quite a fine way of dealing with an area that is, of course, surrounded by some political disagreements, but where we are also dealing with some specific citizens whose names are on a list of legislative proposals and who, precisely because they meet the requirements that a majority has agreed are the right ones, must of course be welcomed in a proper way. So thank you for not least the last contribution, but also for the support at all. Today we also discussed it in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and I was asked how the committee organises its work and how derogations are granted. I would just like to urge once again that if you want to have a discussion, you have to do so in committee, because it is the committee's responsibility to decide whether or not to grant derogations in the specific cases. That is the task of the committee, and it is also the responsibility of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111435	Sir. Christian Langballe, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111440	When we bring it up here, and it is true that we had the discussion in the Chamber, I had the honour to have it with the Minister, and thank you for that, it is, in fact, just an extension of the discussion that is already in the committee. When the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and we bring it up, it is because we consider it a problem. We have also pointed this out in committee, and this is a well-known discussion. The committee is simply the Folketing represented by individuals, so that is why this debate is now coming because we regard it as a very, very serious problem. This has led us to vote 'no', although we would like to vote 'yes', and this has led the Liberal Alliance to vote 'yes', although they could also see some reasons for voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111526	The minister. The Minister of Justice I have nothing more). Then I thank the Minister. The debate is closed because no one else has asked to speak. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111549	The debate is open. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113111609	This bill is about the urban renewal law, which the government is proposing to amend. The draft law contains a large number of points which, according to the government, are intended to improve the possibilities for redevelopment of areas. First of all, the annual area renewal spending framework is increased from 60 million. kr. to 80 million kr. The money will be taken from the building renewal framework, which will be reduced by 20 million at the same time. kr. The law on urban renewal is then amended to allow municipalities in the future to purchase and demolish dilapidated and empty commercial buildings in cities with between 3 000 and 10,000 inhabitants. In the past, only cities with less than 3,000 inhabitants have been able to do so. Finally, it is also worth noting that the law provides increased opportunities for support. This means that housing built in the 1950s is also covered by the law, as well as that municipalities can provide additional support for the renovation of assembly houses. In the Left, we are positive about improving the possibilities of renovating and demolishing the outermost regions. In general, urbanisation takes place. More and more people are moving from rural areas to peripheral areas and from outlying areas to large cities. That is why we know that there is a challenge with buildings falling into the outermost regions. It is killing development when a city is marred by abandoned and falling factory buildings. Therefore, if we want to create life outside the big cities, it is necessary for cities to have the opportunity to adapt to the present. The Left is therefore in favour of the municipalities being able to buy empty and worn-out commercial buildings in cities with between 3 000 and 10,000 inhabitants. In the past it has only been possible in cities with less than 3 000 inhabitants, but just because a city has a certain size does not mean that it is a minor problem when worn-out buildings slow down development. That is why I am also surprised that the limit is now set at 10,000 inhabitants. Also in the slightly larger cities there may be a need to tear down empty buildings so that an entire city does not erupt of decay and lost jobs. Empty and dilapidated commercial buildings are probably a problem, regardless of the size of the city. Why does the government think this is only a problem in cities with up to 10,000 inhabitants? I would also like to highlight the proposal that the municipalities can support the renovation of assembly houses that would otherwise have to shut down. The assembly houses in Denmark are meeting places in the small local communities. Once the village hall disappears, it will be difficult to create a community and a good urban environment. So we can only support an extra opportunity to maintain these in a sensible way. Although there are a number of fine initiatives in the legislative proposal, I must also say that we would like the government to do even more for the development of housing in rural and peripheral areas. When we last had a bill amending the law on urban renewal, I mentioned, as an example, that it is not possible to receive support for the demolition of dilapidated breeding and farming buildings in the countryside. Whether the building is on the entrance road on either side of the city line should not be decisive. This bill will not change that either. Once again, I must therefore wonder why the aid is limited to certain specific situations, so that the municipalities themselves cannot assess where the need is greatest. Another thing also jumps in the eye when reading the bill. It is about funding. The draft law does say that the proposal does not directly involve additional expenditure, but if you look at it, there is some confusion. There is an additional cost of 0.5 million. kr. in 2015 and 2016, to be found in the Finance Act, and at the same time there are also some municipal economic resources to be negotiated with KL. This therefore suggests that the funding of the proposal is not actually entirely in place. That is why we in the Left will be asking questions about funding in committee. However, in general terms, we are positive about the improved opportunities for rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113112020	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Jan Johansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113112029	Thank you. The urban renewal law is there to ensure good housing social conditions. This applies both to area renewal, problem-stricken and worn-out cities and urban areas, and to the change or demolition of private homes. With this bill, we make it clear that the law must create good housing social conditions for both the city and the country. The ambitions of mine and the Social Democrats are that we must continue to have a Denmark that is linked and in balance. It must be attractive to settle in all parts of the country. With this bill we therefore provide municipalities with a wide range of opportunities and tools for urban renewal. In concrete terms, the draft law means that we will ensure more funding for area renewal; that all types of challenging housing can be allocated funds for area renewal; that the possibility of demolition of empty commercial buildings is improved; that the support opportunities for owner-occupied housing and community houses are improved; and that temporary urban spaces can be set up. The bill increases the funds for urban renewal to 80 million. kr. Of these, half are reserved for area renewals in small and small towns. This means that the municipalities can apply for support for the renewal of areas typically made up only of homes and occupations, which are characterised by standstill and relocation. The renewal of the area should help create life and activity in urban spaces and attract new inhabitants and private investors. The renewal of the area can, for example, be achieved by establishing squares and squares, transport measures and social and cultural initiatives. The draft law also means that we will improve support opportunities for assembly houses, which have an important function in the smaller cities. And in addition, the bill means that the municipalities will have a number of opportunities that they have asked for. There is no doubt that urbanisation has put more of our small towns under pressure. First the local grocery store may close, then the local school, and then the town's old factory will have to turn the key. Our task is to ensure that there are reasonable conditions, growth and opportunities for a good life in all parts of the country. Evolution is not reversed in one day, from one day to the next. A long, tough move is needed, in which we put together an overall strategy for the area so that we can contribute to prosperity, growth, development and jobs. And to support this work, the urban renewal funds can be a useful tool, whether they are used for the renewal of areas, the demolition of buildings or the renovation of decrepit houses. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113112348	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113112356	Thank you for that, President. It will probably be a repetition of a little of what we have heard today. This bill contains a number of measures aimed at providing municipalities with the right tools to ensure good housing social conditions both on land and in city. The bill must be seen in the context of the extension of the pools for village renewal. The annual area renewal spending framework will be increased from 60 million. kr. to 80 million kr. The small and small towns are awarded in advance 20 million. kr. each against the previous 35 million. kr. In total. The major cities are allocated 30 million. kr. Abandoned. Newer residential areas and industrial and port areas are allocated in advance of 5 million. kr. each, thereby ensuring that resources are available for the priority areas of action as opposed to those of the past. With regard to the change in the priority of funds for the renewal of the building during the renewal of the area, the amount of EUR 40 million will be maintained in the areas concerned. kr., but is distributed as opposed to earlier by 20 million. kr. for small towns and 20 million for small towns. kr. to the smaller towns. A new opportunity to support the purchase and demolition of empty commercial buildings in cities with over 3 000 inhabitants and less than 10,000 inhabitants. The scope of the Act is extended to cover the purchase and demolition of empty commercial buildings in cities with more than 3 000 inhabitants and less than 10,000 inhabitants as part of a decision on the renewal of the territory. There is scope for the provision of temporary urban spaces, which are also provided for the possibility of providing grants for the provision of temporary urban spaces in industrial and port areas in connection with the decision on the renewal of the area. As regards improved support facilities for the renovation of assembly houses and other buildings with similar use, I would say that we in the Danish People's Party are particularly pleased with improved support facilities for the renovation of assembly houses and other buildings. There is a great need for this. Municipalities can give up to 100 per cent. grants for the renewal of eligible expenditure where no other financing is available. The assembly houses have a proud history. These are fire souls in local communities, which are often the focal point of the assembly houses around the country. The assembly houses have been a great source of inspiration for many, and I could imagine that many of us politicians have been out in assembly halls standing on a beer box and have had a good debate out in local communities. In addition, the Danish People's Party would like to ask the Minister why the government does not want to include the proposals that have not been included in the consultation answers, namely that, in future, like rental homes and owner-occupied and cooperative housing, assembly houses can receive support for energy-saving measures based on the energy labelling scheme. I hope the Minister will elaborate on this when he comes to the floor, because in the Danish People's Party we find this a very good proposal, because we know that assembly halls are often in a poor state too in relation to energy. The Danish People's Party is in favour of this bill and looks forward to the committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113112708	Thank you to the rapporteur. I don't see any radical rapporteur, so that's sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur. You're not wearing a double cap?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113112725	It was asked whether I was radical today too, and I am not. I'm just SFs. There are a number of things in this bill that are quite excellent, including that one, for example. will be able to buy and demolish empty commercial properties in cities with between 3,000 and 10,000 inhabitants. As has been mentioned so far, this has only been possible in cities with up to 3 000 inhabitants. But it is true that some empty, dilapidated commercial buildings have a very negative effect on the physical environment of an area, as mentioned in the draft law, for example. in the case of city centres and in the case of entrance routes. It is also a good thing that the State rate of reimbursement for urban renewal of owner and cooperative housing is increased from 25 to 50 per cent. In this way, the municipalities will be given an incentive to make a real start on this effort towards poor housing. There is a very, very great need for greater support for renovation for the assembly houses, and there is no doubt about that. And it is quite true that the assembly houses are a very important uniting element in local communities. This applies both to various social events, but indeed also to debates of a different nature; it also has a great influence that they are there. The fact that they are there gives a good effect in the democratic debate. I understand the proposal for a directive that, in future, support of up to 100 per cent, i.e. the total cost, can be given by means of a vigorous renewal of these worn-out halls. It's very, very important. It is also a good thing that the bill says that worn-out properties built between 1950 and 1960 can in future also be included as something that can be supported. As time passes, it is clear that there is a need to move that time limit. Area renewal is a priority, and we can only fully agree with that. There is then, I would say, a problem which has been pointed out by the Land Organization of the Rents. They say that there will then be less money to help people in apartments who need to have the toilet and bathroom renewed. This is a point which we in the SF would like to see clarified in the committee's work and what the consequences really are in relation to the tenants. The landlords' organisation also points to another problem, namely that since 2003 there has been no possibility of vetoing an urban renewal project either individually or collectively. I would then like to ask the Minister if he could consider reintroducing such an option. In most cases, a tenant will be very interested in an urban renewal which also includes his or her apartment, but it is clear that there may be situations where it is so intrusive that the individual would prefer it not to happen. But if it cannot be clarified here from the platform in a moment, that is something that we can take up in the committee's work. In conclusion, although I have mentioned a number of problems which we would like to see clarified in the Committee on Urban Affairs and Housing, the SF is mainly in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113113105	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Now I see the radical rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen. I understand that the radical rapporteur is busy, so we are taking the radical rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113113122	Thank you. I would like to start by regretting that I am far too late. Of course there are no excuses for this, but I would say that this is due to the joyful fact that I had a very, very interested hf class visiting which it was quite impossible to get kicked out. So I'm really sorry about that. It is the case that the urban renewal law has not been revised since 2004, and that is not as such a reason to change, but it has therefore appeared within the last approx. Ten years have passed since there has been such a shift in the population that certain cities and urban communities and, as such, the housing market are generally pressured on some parameters and challenged to a degree that we have not seen in the past. That is why we in the Radical Left believe that, and we agree with the government that, as a result of this, the municipalities must then have the right means, some more resources to adapt and regulate, so as to ensure up-to-date solutions and up-to-date urban communities in the future. In particular, we must ensure that a certain proportion of the funds that we regenerate on are spent on some of the problems that exist in relation to small towns and rural areas. In this context, we also want to provide the municipalities with a number of new tools and thus extend the urban renewal law in a number of areas, for example, in relation to better funding for purchase and demolition, temporary urban spaces, conversions. And then the draft law also contains a number of administrative reliefs, which we also see as a great good and look at very positively. So all in all we really think it is a good bill, but we are also looking forward to discussing and discussing the legislative proposal in committee, but as a starting point the Radical Left can of course support this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113113322	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Dohn as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113113327	Thank you. I shall skip the initial exercises by specifying what the bill includes and going directly into the content. I think it is very characteristic of how much money is actually being set aside or how little money is actually being set aside here, namely 20 million. kr. More. I'm thinking about a television show the other night, where you could see that a former TDC director got 80 million. kr. Just to resign. Here is the Danish Parliament to discuss how we develop rural housing and buildings and have 20 million. kr. available. It says a little bit about how the money is distributed in this community. Around the assembly houses, I think it is quite crucial that it should be included in the scheme. It is now possible to grant up to 100 per cent when loans cannot be granted, and that is what happens very often in the countryside. This is a well-known matter. So it's a really good move. At the same time, however, it has to be said that the assembly houses need an aid scheme to ensure energy security for their buildings. The Rural Committee has just been on an excellent trip to the City of Jammerbugt, where we have visited some assembly houses which had an impressive operation, but also where it came out at the same time that the cost of heating in particular is unreasonable and very burdensome. So it would be a good idea to set up a system in this area. At the same time, like the SF's rapporteur, I have noticed the things that have been noticed about the transfer of funds from town to country, namely that it may result in the opportunities for changing housing with so-called installation defects • it sounds so fine, but it is of course about the fact that there is no toilet or bath in the dwelling • being reduced. I think it must be a goal for a modern Danish society that there are no people living without toilets and baths in their homes. I belong to the 1950 generation and have grown up for the first five years without a toilet and bath in the home, so I know what I'm talking about. I also know that the Social Democrat rapporteur had to suffer the same suffering; it is not all of us in this Chamber who have chosen, I had almost said the right parents. So we must therefore set ourselves the goal of Parliament that everyone should be guaranteed now it is over 100 years since the most wealthy got bathed in their accommodation • bathed in their accommodation. I would also like to ask the Minister to comment on this. Similarly, I think that the scope of the law, i.e. that newer homes built up up to 1960 are covered, is good. It seems publicly known that not all farmhouse models are free of very large building damage. In fact, I believe that there is a bomb under large parts of Danish society when it really emerges how much investment needs there will be in that area. So it is good that we also consider that newer housing can be included in the scheme. At the same time, it is a little thought-provoking, when one was born in 1950, that housing built after one was born will then be covered by a renovation scheme; but it says something about the homes, not necessarily anything about the people. And I usually say that I was born then after World War II, when really good building materials came; but they have not been used everywhere. Similarly, the possibility of a municipal guarantee for building loans is now being introduced here, and this is also progress. It's a well-known case. It just hasn't occurred to the whole government, at least not to the Minister for Business and Industry that there are really big problems with funding in the countryside. The Enhedslisten believes that we must ensure that housing can be sold and developed in rural areas, otherwise we will never move forward. Our aim is to get to the Norwegian house loan scheme at least, but we would like to see a state loan scheme in this country, which is why we are looking forward to 26 November when there will be a hearing. The Enhedslisten regards this as a step forward, but we will reserve the right to table amendments in some of the areas I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113113856	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113113906	I do not want to take part in the shakedown of urban renewal efforts in Denmark. It's a little strange because you live in a property in Denmark, whether it's a owner housing association or a private rental or a cooperative housing association, you can't figure out how to renovate your home yourself when there's a need to do so. People who live in single-family houses can find a way of doing that even without public subsidies, and we have no public subsidies for it, except for a deduction from the housing job scheme that has been established, which we in the Liberal Alliance do not support. If you look at the figures on how urban renewal has worked, you can see from figures from the Home Ministry's website that from 1990 to 2010, the number of housing without toilet, bath or central heating has fallen in Denmark from 324,000 to 138,000. This is then highlighted as a success for the urban renewal effort, but only a third of the 190,000 homes that have been improved in this way have actually received public urban renewal. Two thirds of them have been renewed with bath, central heating or toilet without public sector support. With regard to the last third, I would say: how many of them would have been implemented anyway if there were no urban renewal money from the public sector? After all, we also know from the housing job scheme that a large part of the renovations carried out by private individuals less the housing job scheme would have been carried out anyway, even if the housing job scheme had not existed. We must also assume that this is the case with urban renewal projects, namely that a large proportion of those who receive public support for urban renewal would have been made anyway, even if public aid was not there, because at least two thirds of those who have avoided having a toilet, bath or central heating have done so without public support. So the basic principle must be that a private owner housing association, a private landlord or a private cooperative housing association should, of course, finance its renewal itself and not with public subsidies. This bill will then extend public subsidies for urban renewal, and as we believe that the urban renewal that is already misunderstood, we do not support the extension of urban renewal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114153	There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114156	I would like to ask the rapporteur what ideas go through the rapporteur's head when he hears the information that there are 138 000 homes in Denmark with installation gaps • apartments without either bathroom or toilet.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114220	There the thoughts go through my head that there are some people in Denmark, for example. students who would rather have a low rent than their own toilet or bathroom. The consequence of installing your own bathroom or toilet in the home is also a rent increase, regardless of whether there is urban renewal money in it or not. So I think that there may be a demand for housing that the rest of us, who have come up a little over the years, think is a little pauvre, among students, because they want to spend less money on their rent. If you insist that everything should be such that a high school teacher in the sixties wants to live there, it may be a misguided idea of what the market is like.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114313	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114314	That is to say, for the rapporteur, it is a question of rent size, whether we have housing with installation defects and that it is not an ambition of the rapporteur that one should be able to say that in 2014 it is a human right to have toilets and baths in one's home.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114339	It's not like there's no bathroom in the apartment. When we talk about the few apartments left, where, for example, there are. There's no toilet in the apartment itself, so there's a toilet out on the back stairs that you share with the neighbor. If anyone thinks that it is worth coming, if you can, in return, let go cheaper in rent, then we do not stand in the Liberal Alliance and say that it is inhumane. On the contrary, we say: it is good that someone can get the offer they want, namely a little less good conditions where you share a toilet but, on the other hand, a lower rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114420	Sir. Eigil Andersen, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114423	Should the views of the Liberal Alliance in this area be understood in such a way that it is really a criticism of the landlords who rent the apartment and then neglect to bring the apartments up to a sound standard? The fact is that it is the landlords who have the long end here, when we talk about apartments, as to whether these improvements should be made or not. So is the Liberal Alliance out here criticizing the landlords because they should be able to handle it within their ordinary income?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114459	We are not criticising anyone who makes a product available to a group of people who demand that product. And as I also said to Mr. Lars Dohn, I believe that there is a demand for the cheap city apartment and that this demand may also result in people, for example. students, then are willing to take a city apartment where there is no toilet in the apartment itself, but out on the back stairs. So it's not a criticism of anyone. It's just a statement that there are different needs in this society. And even though we'd all rather drive in, for example. Mercedes than in Lada I suppose there may be a few nostalgic DKPs left who might rather have a Lada there are some who actually buy a cheap car, although it is not as good as the expensive car because they prefer the cheap car because of the price. And we should not exclude those people from the housing market who would like to pay a little less in return for having a slightly simpler accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114608	Sir. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114609	I do not think that thinking can be passed on to anyone who lives in such an apartment without toilet and bath, doing so on a voluntary basis. I simply do not believe that. That's not the reality. But I'd like to ask Mr. Ole Birk Olesen about something else. This is so public funding for urban renewal. There are other forms of public subsidies, for example: the interest allowance, which many owner-occupied dwellings have, is a tax credit for the interest. Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that it could be said in the same way that society should not support homeowners with an interest rebate, they really have to pay their own interest?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114651	After all, it is not only the homeowners who are granted the right to deduct interest on their loans, but also the people who borrow for a television and other things. But the Liberal Alliance is not engaged to the right to deduct interest, we are not, but we are looking at it more closely. The landowners as a group are paying too much in taxes today, according to us. If they were taken away from the right to deduct interest, they would have to pay even more. So even if we are not engaged in the right to deduct interest, it would go in the wrong direction, compared to the fact that we think the property owners are paying too much in tax today. If a major reform is being carried out to ensure that property owners do not pay as much in tax as they do today, one might consider including the right to deduct interest in the same transfer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114736	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113114743	Thank you. We can support the proposal as a starting point. We see a need for area renewal in very many areas. The possibility of improving assembly halls and other local community gathering points is really, really important, and especially in those areas where there may not be much else left to gather around, it is important to stick to what is there. We are also concerned about this opportunity to buy and demolish empty commercial properties, which can, of course, help to desecrate an area and make it less comfortable to live in. And that is why we are a little puzzled by all those rigid boundaries that partout must be in such an area. Now you raise the limit from 3,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, which means that if there is 10,001 inhabitants in a place where there is such a property, then there is no possibility of receiving support under this scheme. We think this is extremely inappropriate, and we very much hope that the Minister will help to remove that limit, for why does he have it? Should we not rather look at what the area looks like than at whether one or two residents live more or less in that area? I am not going to repeat the relevant economic questions raised by the rapporteur of the Left, but simply say that we share that interest in the proposal. And then, as a follow-up to the last rapporteur, it might be said that this proposal, which is a long way from supporting a particular form of housing, also suggests that it would have been quite appropriate to have maintained the housing job scheme, not only for the sake of the jobs it costs to remove them, but also for the sake of other areas where it is appropriate to have your housing renovated, among other things. in order to reduce energy consumption in homes and much more. So it would be a good thing if it were possible for us to have a system of this kind too, and I understand that we are putting or having put the last hand of the Finance Act, so perhaps it is a kick-in for it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115011	Thank you to the rapporteur. Hey, there was a brief remark. I'm sorry, I didn't see that on the move. Sir. Lars Dohn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115018	When the rapporteur says that it is very important to maintain the housing job scheme, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur also, with the knowledge we have, is only 5%. In the case of the housing job scheme, the tenants have gone to the tenants, who believe that this is a fair arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115044	After all, the scheme goes to the people who make use of the scheme. If we are going to talk about justice, perhaps we should have a little more discussion about whether there is a level playing field with owners and tenants. I think we had a relatively long discussion on the aid possibilities for rentals. So there isn't. But I do not see anything unfair at all in the fact that a system is being used by those who avail themselves of it, given that it has been made available quite freely.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115119	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115121	That is to say, I understand from the rapporteur that the enormous imbalance in this matter between tenants and tenants does not bother the Conservative People's Party. As I understand that the Conservative People's Party wants to continue the scheme, I would like to ask whether this also means that owners of summer homes and holiday homes abroad, for example. people who own a holiday home in Cannes must continue to be able to receive support through the housing job scheme to renovate their accommodation, and they can do so under the existing scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115159	There is no doubt that there is a huge imbalance in relation to this bill. This has primarily to do with people who do not live in their own homes. Then there are other imbalances on other schemes. The housing job scheme has been used primarily by people living in their own homes. That's the way it is. When there are different schemes, there are also different ones that use those schemes. We have these imbalances, and we are basically of the opinion that it is possible to do so, because if people are to have equal opportunities, they have to be treated differently according to their different conditions and the situation in which they are. In relation to the housing job scheme, the primary purpose is, of course, to have this country renovated, but we want the old housing job scheme back, and we also want an extension in relation to such a thing as getting your home forft secured through that scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115255	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115303	Thank you for the positive reception of the bill. It is clear, of course, that this is a complicated legislative proposal which changes a number of things and questions have also been asked along the way. I do not think I can respond in detail to all of them, but I look forward to a very good committee reading, and I would also like to say that this is an expression of that, I think that there is minus Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is actually supportive of the fact that we are using urban renewal. And may I not just inform you that it's actually the case that every time we spend $1. on urban renewal by the state and by the municipalities, 5 DKK will be added. Upstairs. So we can multiply this 280 million. kr., as it is about, with 5, and this is quite a considerable effort. The draft law is also an expression of the fact that we have spent and are still spending a great deal of money in the larger cities. And I would like to say to the SF rapporteur and to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Lars Dohn, that in recent years, therefore, there has been enormous urban renewal in our larger cities. It also bears the hallmark of this, and this was also needed, especially in relation to all the buildings that were not technical installations in. We have come a bit, and we are continuing our efforts, but there is therefore an enormous need in our rural areas to re-establish many villages; they are becoming smaller in these years, and cities need to be linked together. This is an expression of it, and it is, of course, an expression of the fact that we have been around the country, in the big cities, but we have also talked to the mayors and the city roots of the smaller towns where we say: let us now see if there is anything we can do in particular. This bill indicates that we are slightly changing the priorities to ensure that there will be an opportunity, especially with regard to area renewal, to tie money together. However, as can be seen, this makes it possible for us to take a number of measures that are in demand, especially in rural areas. The fight against poor housing and better housing social efforts are, after all, much in demand. This is done on the basis of the decisions that are in the municipalities, where there are strategies for whole villages. It's something new after you actually started with the demolition pool, and after we've followed up with the village renewal pool, which also needs to be used to create strategies, to create rural strategies, and that's how you connect to thinking about larger areas. The bill tries to link these efforts, i.e. an effort towards the individual poor housing with an overall effort in the area. And we can see it's working. We have seen it in quite a number of villages we have come through. Vestervig, who became this year's village last year, has in fact now a waiting list for new inhabitants after the ruins have been removed and green spaces have been created; the citizens have come together and have used the urban renewal funds quite sensibly. We also know that in Ryslinge, where quite a lot of money was being cleaned up and spent both the citizens' money, but also the city renewal funds can now sell houses again. There are plenty of examples of urban renewal making a crucial difference in our rural areas. Of course, it does in the larger cities too. And when we reserve these funds, it is an expression that we want to support the efforts of the municipalities in these years. There is no doubt that we are making a difference. Then a number of questions have been raised and I will try to answer some of them. First of all, I have to say to the DF's rapporteur about the climate shields here that in the bill we set aside a number of million euros I would always like the urban renewal proposal to be bigger, but I think that within the framework we are now working on, we have set aside some funds for this. There is the new thing that all the rapporteurs have praised about the assembly houses. And what you can do with this, as several rapporteurs have said, is that you can go up to 100%. The municipalities can guarantee loans because many of our community houses are actually owned by owners' associations, local citizens' associations, etc. and they find it difficult to obtain the basic capital needed to obtain these loans. That's one part of it. The question was then asked: why can we not work on energy measures? With the limited resources we have set aside for that part of it, in other words to find and reserve funds within the framework, we have said that what you can do in relation to this part is to refurbishing the climate screens of the buildings. And accessibility measures, disability measures, mitigation of condemnable conditions can also be made. This means that you can actually also get a hold of these works in a way that takes account of future energy consumption, i.e. by getting a hole-wall insulation, by getting hold of the roofs and trades, as the professional language says... get hold of that part of it. It is true that the legislative proposal does not provide direct support for new district heating installations, oil pine, etc. But it has been a priority within the framework to ensure that this money can be used in this way. Then there was a question from Mr. Eigil Andersen and Mr. Lars Dohn on the subject of all the LLO's hearings, where they ask: why is there not a right of veto? In other words, we have negotiated a number of different proposals on energy renovations, and we have a very, very broad proposal now that we have not chosen to change that part of it. We also negotiated a new lease law, which we will now be discussing shortly in this Chamber. And there I think we have found the right balance as it stands now. It is clear that I am not surprised that the LLO raises the question, but we have at least found that the balance should be there. Then there was Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the rapporteur of the Left, who asked about the two times 0.5 million. kr. I have to say that they are taken from the framework of the 20 million. kr. It is a demand that local authorities should be able to obtain better guidance on urban renewal. And that's why, in cooperation with KL, we've set aside two times 500,000 kroner. for a guidance effort, where we can, as it were, go out and give the case workers in the municipalities a greater insight into what these funds can be used for, and that is a wish from them. I do not think there are any outstanding questions in it, but of course we are happy to answer questions, including written questions, about it. I think we got around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115922	Yes, there was just a brief comment from Mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113115924	Yes, now, on the question of the 138,000 homes in Denmark, which are characterized by the lack of installation facilities, we were told by the Liberal Alliance that it was a question of whether you wanted a lower rent. I would then like to ask our Minister for Housing whether the Minister agrees that this is the kind of question that one would assume, i.e. whether one wants to live a little more expensive or a little cheaper, or whether the Minister has a different purpose for a Danish welfare state than just to regard the housing as a quite ordinary commodity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120011	I mean, I think housing is absolutely crucial to people's well-being and well-being. This is where the children are raised; this is where you know your neighborhood; this is where you unfold your free time. And that is where I think it is absolutely crucial that the housing also has a proper standard. That is why, of course, we are also working with the municipalities on this. And over the past 10 years we have come down well in the number of homes that do not have their own bathroom and toilet. I think it is quite relevant that we in Denmark should continue to work that way. There may be some who, for economic reasons, have to choose such cheap housing that there are no bathrooms and toilets, but we must certainly work to ensure that all homes get their own bathroom and toilet.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120049	Sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120051	Now I don't know Odense's population exactly, but I think it's pretty close to that number, 138,000. This is the minister's hometown. Is it not disturbing that, with the welfare we otherwise surround ourselves with in Denmark, we still have a number of homes that are largely equivalent to Odense's population, which do not have the basic facilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120120	Now I would like to say to Mr. Lars Dohn, that Odense's new slogan says you want to go from being a big city to being a big city. I'd like to say that the population has been shot a lot side by side. We're up about 200,000. But if Mr. Lars Dohn comes to my town, I'll show him the sights. After all, we have common interests in a number of tourism areas of this. Having said that, however, I still think that 138,000 days is too high a figure, and that is why we must target it as well. But this bill and the urban renewal proposal are an expression of the need to find a better balance within the framework we now have. I think, sir. Lars Dohn, as rural rapporteur, agrees with me that there is a significant need to clean up and re-establish the city and support the efforts of the municipalities to tie their villages together when there are fewer people living there. So it's a matter of finding the balance. We will then also expand the possibilities in relation to that part of it. So I think we have found a good balance and, as I said, urban renewal works. We shall continue to do away with this, we must say, apartments where there are no installations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113120221	No one else has asked for the floor. Thank you, Minister. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130002	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and I give the floor first to Mrs Karen Jespersen, who is speaking on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130037	The bill means that the requirements will be tightened when you want to establish a cooperative housing association, which will be established when the tenants buy a dwelling. The background is that, particularly during the financial crisis, there have been a number of cooperative housing associations which had an extremely difficult time getting by. What it has made clear is that the conditions are not sufficiently clear when it comes to setting up a cooperative housing association, and that is what is being corrected by the draft law here, which calls for the budget to be clearer, and the financial basis must also be clearer, so that you have a guarantee that you have the money to pay off the loans and make the economy stick together. And it must also be available for a 10-year period. There are a number of other requirements for the budgets, and there is also an extended disclosure obligation for those who have money involved and a requirement to be registered in the Central Business Register. It is also proposed to increase minimum participation from 1/3 to 60%. One might say that it was perhaps more logical to say that it was by a general majority, that is to say 50 per cent, but the whole idea that there should therefore be a solid foundation before starting a cooperative housing association, considers the Left to be reasonable. So we support the idea in the draft law and, of course, there is a lot of technology in it, and that can be discussed during the committee procedure. However, we support the whole idea that there should be a more clear and transparent basis for funding and that it should also be more solid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130252	Thank you, and then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130308	After all, it is no secret that the Socialists are very much in favour of the cooperative housing idea. We are, because cohabitation is cheap and attractive as owner's residence. This allows people with general income to live in the city, where the majority of cohabitants are located. We therefore want there to be security in the purchase of co-operative housing. We want to secure confidence in the cooperative housing market, and this has been needed, because unfortunately, up to the economic crisis, we have seen several examples of people buying cooperative housing without being able to see through the funding behind it. Of course, we had to respond to this in order to ensure a well-functioning cooperative housing market. Since its accession, the Government has therefore taken a number of initiatives aimed at increasing transparency in the purchase and sale of cooperative housing. With this bill, we are now taking the next step by ensuring that the creation of a new cooperative housing association is also carried out on a solid economic basis. In concrete terms, the draft law strengthens the requirements for the creation of cooperative housing by raising the minimum participation rate at the foundation to 60%. by the tenants to ensure that there are enough shareholders to ensure a healthy economy; that comparable budgets are required; that the obligation to report key information on loans granted to the cooperative housing association also includes lenders other than financial institutions and mortgage institutions; that cvr registration of the cooperative housing association is introduced. Before the crisis, we saw examples of some associations being formed on very optimistic budgets and risky funding. We are now tightening this up with this bill, so that new cooperative housing associations are established on a solid financial basis, which can be trusted and transparent. These initiatives have been taken to safeguard our cooperative housing. So with that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130543	Thank you. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130549	Thank you. It is no surprise that the rapporteur's party supports the proposal. The cooperative housing area has been a major topic of debate in recent years, and we have witnessed a number of cooperative housing associations having been financially affected and there have been major challenges in this area. One might then wonder why the government did not put forward this bill last year when the government tightened the rules on accounting. This bill has several elements. More stringent requirements are proposed in connection with the formation of private cooperative housing associations in two areas, both of which will contribute to the future establishment of cooperative housing associations on a sound economic basis. The threshold for minimum participation in the formation of cooperative housing associations will be raised from 1/3 to 60 per cent. the tenants and the requirement that budgets and comparable budgets be available before the acquisition of property by a cooperative housing association. An extension of the obligation to report key financial information and loans granted to cooperative housing associations will be introduced to cover lenders other than money and mortgage institutions. Compulsory registration of cooperative housing associations will be introduced. However, the bill does not solve the situations where the property's sales price to the association is artificially increased so that the price does not hold up afterwards. This may have consequences as the market price of the share is below the calculated share value and it may be difficult for the association to borrow for maintenance work because the valuation of the property is lower than the cost price. Several of the consultation responses have raised questions and pointed out the requirement that minimum participation should be two thirds of residents, as several believe that it will be almost impossible to form cooperative housing associations under the rules of the Lease Act on the obligation to offer services. What is the Minister's position with regard to the replies received? In the Danish People's Party we have wanted an analysis in this area, and I can also see from the consultation answers that it is also wanted by several of those who have professional knowledge in this area. This has not been accepted by the Minister, who also said earlier in a reply to the Housing Committee that the Minister does not want a thorough analysis in this area. It is still the wish of the Danish People's Party to have it. We look forward to the work of the committee and hope that the Minister will also be able to give some answers in this Chamber today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130827	A brief comment from Mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130830	I would like to ask a question about the future of the cooperative housing idea, because as I have become aware, both the Left and the Conservatives will free the cooperative crown with all the consequences it will bring in an overheated housing market in the big cities. I would like to ask, as it may be important towards the elections that will take place within a year: will the Danish People's Party support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130904	It is very interesting that Mr. Lars Dohn is asking this question, because Mr. Lars Dohn has also read what you have said to everything. It is that we want a thorough analysis in this area so that we know what the consequences will be, what the benefits are and what the consequences are. The Minister did not wish to do so, so the rapporteur knows very well the answer that comes from me here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130933	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130934	Well, can I then get the rapporteur to reveal what it will mean if you release the cooperative crown in an overheated housing market, especially what is in Copenhagen and Aarhus?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113130948-2	After all, I am not an expert in this area, and that is why I want a thorough analysis of what this will mean. This could probably mean that prices would rise, and that is why I think it is so important that we have a thorough analysis in this area. It is not only the Danish People's Party that wants it, it wants the parties that have interests in this, too. You say precisely that there is a lack of a well-lit basis in the area of participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131018	Sir. Jan Johansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131022	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Karina Adsbøl: what happens if prices go up, as the rapporteur himself says? Does the rapporteur not think that there should be room for people with general income in the city? Because that is what will happen if the prices of cooperative housing increase. After all, you can destroy the whole cohabitation idea. Is it not frightening to think that it can happen if prices rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131050	It is very interesting that the rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is asking the same question, because the rapporteur for the Socialist Group is well aware of the answer to it. The answer is that the Danish People's Party likes the cooperative idea; we like it, in relation to that... [Sound emission]... there is also a good market for those who do not have large wages. That is why we like the idea of participation, we like what was the intention of the cooperative idea when it was put into practice at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131122	Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131124	If the study shows that prices are rising sharply, will the Danish People's Party clearly refrain from setting prices free?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131136	I find it very interesting that the rapporteur is asking that question, since the Minister is not going to carry out a thorough analysis in this area, which several experts have also been out to say they are calling for. It is a little difficult to give a clear answer to the result of an analysis which is not known to the extent of, and when you do not know what consequences or any benefits there will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131156	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131202	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we believe that it is important that we look at the problem of poor economy in some of our cooperatives. In this context, we believe that it is important to look at how we can take early action, in other words in connection with the foundation, so that we can prevent some of this from happening. There are a number of examples of associations, for example: This is why we would very much like to support this proposal, which places greater demands on the formation of cooperative housing associations. One of the things that will be done and that has also been explained by previous rapporteurs is to increase the demand for the number of people to support the formation of such an association. It's being moved from 33 percent. to 60%, so as to obtain more solid support for such an association from the beginning. In addition, greater demands are also made for the preparation of the budget, and this must be done for each type of loan which could be used for financing the purchase, and a budget must be produced for a comparison based on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loan. These budgets must last at least ten years after the foundation of the association and constitute what can be said? In this way, and with these demands both for the economic circumstances and therefore also for the more democratic support for the formation of the association, we hope that this can at least be a factor in restoring some of the security to this part of the housing market. It is not certain that we have finished looking at this area, but we believe that this is a sensible step in the right direction and, on that basis, the Radical Left can support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131424	Thank you. And then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131435	Unfortunately, there have been quite a few examples of cohabitation associations becoming economically chaos, and there are several different reasons for this. One of the reasons, as some of the previous rapporteurs have said, is that the basis of the cooperative housing association has so far been demanded that only 33 per cent. of the tenants should be with the • have been too weak already at the foundation. Another reason for the economic chaos has been that the budgets of a new cooperative housing association have included large revenues from the sale of apartments that have not succeeded at all. Thus, the possibility of selling the shares has been overestimated, but since the sale was included in the budgets, the economy was, frankly, left in a mess. So far, there have been a number of shareholders who have been caught by such a smokescreen of insufficient financial information which has not given a real picture of what the situation was. A third reason for economic disruption in cooperative housing associations has been that in some cases it has been unclear for the individual tenant what costs you would get if you agreed to join the cooperative housing association, which then took over the property. Of course, all of these three points are untenable, which is why the SF is happy with this bill because it corrects all three issues. Firstly, the requirement to participate in a cooperative housing association is increased from 33 per cent. of the tenants to 60%. It simply increases economic stability because then there are fewer apartments to be rented out. Secondly, far greater economic transparency will continue to be required. In the future, a planned sale of apartments must no longer be included in the budgets that have to be presented when deciding as tenants whether to buy one's home as a co-habitation and thereby bind its economic fate with the other residents. There will therefore be a ban on the inclusion of this desired sale of apartments in the budgets. Thirdly, as I have said, a budget of 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans must be presented and budgets presented for the first 10 years. All in all, it is a much better and much more transparent consumer information about the future economy before the individual or individual family decides, and that is a very great step forward. Finally, I would like to mention that there might be some who would think that instead of increasing the requirement for tenants to participate in a cooperative housing association from 33 per cent. 60%. Instead, it should have introduced a requirement that each shareholder should include, for example: 20% or 30%. of the purchase price. This is a bad idea because it would prevent a number of tenants from participating on a regular basis. Cohabitation associations are just a form of accommodation located somewhere between apartments and condos, as regards the cost of living in the dwelling. In the SF, we believe that this is a good system because it allows people on low incomes to choose this form of housing. We must stick to this idea, and that is why we are pleased that there are no capital requirements in this draft law, but that, as I said, 60 per cent will be required. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the House for its support for this report. It simply stops getting a false picture of the economy, as has happened so far in many situations. SF can therefore say with pleasure that we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131837	A brief comment from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131840	To raise the requirement for the number of tenants to be included in a cooperative housing association from 33 per cent. to 60%, why is it just that it makes the economy of a cooperative housing association more stable? 60% of some 10 apartments are fewer than 33 per cent. of some rises with e.g. 20 apartments. Why is the number of members of the cooperative housing association crucial to the stability of the cooperative housing association's economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113131921	That is a fair question, and I would like to try to answer that. So, the moment you're a shareholder, you own the apartment in question by virtue of a certificate of participation, and you've committed yourself to paying the expenses that are each month. When apartments in the same property must then be rented out, it is the case that a tenant has his freedom to terminate and leave his apartment with a certain notice. This means that if many apartments are to be rented out, there is greater uncertainty as to whether you have a stable income for the property as such, whereas the shareholders are therefore bound to pay the costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132009	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132010	As the law provides for the Housing Regulation Act and the Lease Act, it is therefore unstable to operate rental activities in Denmark. It's really hard. And that is why we must demand that cooperative housing associations do not have too many rentals, because then they may go downstairs and home. Isn't it a problem that we have a housing regulation in Denmark that makes it difficult and unstable to operate housing rental? Because it's not just the cooperative housing associations that get hit by this. It is also the private landlords who are affected by the fact that it is difficult to get economics in private rentals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132046	What the Liberal Alliance is saying here has nothing to do with housing regulation legislation. In any case, as I have said, you have the right to leave your apartment. The landlords will be fine, and if there are landlords who think they have a bad business, I would recommend that they put their money in something else and make a profit on it. But there are still plenty of landlords who have rental properties in Denmark, so I'm not worried about that at all. On the other hand, I would be worried if, for example, The Liberal Alliance will impose capital requirements on those who will be part of a cooperative housing association. It would hit socially wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132128	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132136	Thank you. The reason for this bill is that 11%. of the cooperative housing associations are technically insolvent. Then you could be a little light-headed and say that yes, if you go out on a parcel house road, then one third of all the parcel houses are technically insolvent on average. But it is also quite serious because it may be the biggest bomb in the Danish economy if things go wrong. The Enhedslisten has supported the proposals that have been made to make this market less risky, and I hope that in particular the postponement of the value assessment will mean that we do not see the same risky start-ups that have helped create accidents in thousands of Danish homes. The proposals here are quite reasonable almost all: true budget, economic forecasts, a requirement for the budget to be based on regular 30-year convertible loans with instalments, etc., and not to speculate on future sales, which the valuers have tried so hard to make and cause accidents. On one point, I have to say that we do not entirely agree. That is the demand for how many people will be able to form an association. You could say that a demand of 60%. It is not in line with our normal 50 per cent demand for a majority. And if you are going to make an argument which, I think, is quite a good argument that it is not necessarily the percentage that determines whether things are going well, then it was the case that in Duegarden, which is one of the cooperative housing projects that are so badly in need, 75% supported it. What concerns us is that the foundation of cooperative housing associations arises in the situations where the landlord wants to sell. That is to say, with this tightening of the requirement of the 60%. you can so fear that there will be fewer cohabitation associations. This is something that the Enhedslisten will certainly be against, because the cooperative residence is a completely proper form of housing, democratic, common and once also speculative until we had a VKO government that so much went in and undermined that area. What can we do if we want to go one step further, because that is what Enhedslisten actually wants? Well, then, it's getting rid of the reasons why this good sector has become insecure. Well, it's completely to remove the valuers' activities in this area. All the market making that was made in the '00s, we would be terribly happy to have rolled back. There was the borrowing facility on the resident's share and there was the introduction of grace-free loans. That is why we would also like to see the commitments of the lenders tightened up. It now turns out that interest rates have been introduced, swap loans, which are not all unhealthy, without properly informing the borrowers about this and thus bringing families and associations into operation. We therefore believe that we must go further, but these proposals are excellent and point in the right direction, except for the requirement of how many people are required to form an association. There is one point that I tried to include in our lease agreement, but which unfortunately did not succeed. Now the lease law has not yet been adopted, but it was precisely that when there is an obligation to offer a property, the landlord can get away with not carrying out the obligation to offer, that is to say just carrying out his trade without ensuring that the tenants are offered the property. And there is no sanction in this area, so that is a shortcoming in the rental bill that is now coming forward here. We would have liked to have seen that brought in. Otherwise, however, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132637	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132641	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur supports the need for a thorough analysis in this area, just as several experts have said to Altinget, as I also know Mr Tugendhat. Lars Dohn reads.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132657	Yes, I would not be against an analysis, but you do not need to know much about markets to find out that where there is a shortage of goods and where, as in Copenhagen, 1,000 new ones move to each month, the price increases. It's as simple as that. Strictly speaking, there is no need to set up a commission to know. On the other hand, clarifying some things will always be good. But there are also things that are so self-evident that you can say that it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132734	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132738	Then I would like to read a quote from Altinget, which recognizes that you understand the Danish People's Party. The quote is: It is difficult to see what the consequences will be of the removal of the maximum price. What does it want, for example? mean to other types of housing in the area? It is difficult to assess the impact this will have on the individual cooperative housing associations, the first buyer, etc. Several of the experts are expressing their views on this, but the rapporteur is simply so knowledgeable and believes that he can predict the consequences and benefits of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132817	No, I'm only knowledgeable. New knowledge is never evil, and clarification of it will certainly not be bad either, but I assume that when the questioner has asked questions to the Minister, the Minister will answer, and then we can start from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132836	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113132847	After all, there is a great deal of good in this world that you could have legislation to do if you want legislation on all the good that you can do. It is, of course, a good idea to set up a cooperative housing association, to manage budgets and also to have budgets for alternative funding proposals. It is probably also a good idea that there are more of the tenants who agree to form the cooperative housing association than a third. But imagine how much legislation we would need if we were to have legislation on everything that was good. It had no end. I have the expectation that, on top of the examples of poorly run cooperative housing associations and poor economy in cooperative housing associations, there has been an awareness among people who want to set up new cooperative associations that more things need to be done than other poorly run cooperative housing associations have had in the past. I really do not think we need to legislate on that here in the Danish Parliament. Whether it should be two thirds of the tenants who have to agree on this or whether it should be a third or half, I don't think it should be us who should decide. Nor do I think it is we who should decide whether there should be a draft budget for every financing proposal or only for half or only for the best three or whatever. I think there's too much going into detail here. I'm afraid this just leads to unnecessary bureaucracy out there in the new cooperative associations. I am also afraid that cooperative housing associations which could work well at 50%. by the tenants as co-habitants, it cannot be established now, because here in the Danish Parliament it is said to be 60%. On the grounds that we don't have to legislate for anything that is sensible in this society, at least not for so long that people's unreasonableness only affects themselves, we can be confident that most people will behave sensibly because otherwise they would suffer. That is why we do not support any further regulation of cooperative housing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133108	A brief comment from Mr. Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133113	It's not true that you're just being yourself in a cohabitation. One binds one's economic destiny with all the other shareholders, which is why one is not free. After all, this legislation aims to protect the individual co-owner, the individual resident, the individual family from ugly surprises. When, then, the Liberal Alliance is opposed to that protection, then one should still be able to drive people out into some quite unreasonable things, without the matter being properly clarified financially, one should understand the fact that the Liberal Alliance is generally opposed to any form of consumer protection? For example, are you... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Are you opposed to a requirement for product declarations on the goods we buy in stores? Because that is also something we can say, and I am curious to hear about the Liberal Alliance too, that this type of consumer protection must also be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133223	No, the Liberal Alliance is not against legislation banning poison in our food products, for example. For anyone who goes down to a store and buys a food, has the expectation that the food doesn't make you sick. Therefore, it is a breach of a legitimate expectation of the quality of the food product, if the food product makes a sick person a contract violation, one might say. Not all contracts need to be written down, they may also be implied. That is why we are not against it. But when Mr. Eigil Andersen says that you have to have all sorts of rules on the conditions under which cohabitation associations can be formed, because it is not voluntary, if you want to join, then I just have to answer: It is voluntary, if you want to join. That is what lies in some of the legislation: at least 60%. must want to join before it is even possible to form a cooperative housing association. We are simply saying: can it really be true that such strict demands must be made from here? What if 50 percent? will, and they have a perfectly healthy and sensible economy behind it? You can imagine that they have. There are plenty of examples of that. On the other hand, there are examples that things are not going very well, although there are more than 60%.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133336	Eigil Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133338	We fully agree that when you stand in the supermarket, you have no chance of knowing whether there is anything toxic in the product you buy. We agree that there is a need for legislation and consumer protection. What we are talking about here is that there should be a ban on budgeting in a cooperative housing association not including income from the sale of apartments that we know will take place and that budgets should be made to show what is to be paid over the next 10 years. It is, of course, a protection against the individual or individual family getting into financial trouble because there are some unqualified people who present these things to the shareholders. It is impossible to see through for each shareholder, just as it is impossible to see through for Ole Birk Olesen and me down in the supermarket, whether there is poison in the product, and that is why we are glad that there are some authorities who have it under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133431	There is a difference between buying a product that some others have produced and there is then some poison in the product that you consume when you eat it, and looking at the fact that you, that is, you go with some other people to form a cooperative housing association. You're your own master here. I fully agree that care must be taken to ensure that there is sense in the economy, and I believe that many people who are setting up cooperative housing associations in these years are making sure that this is the case, because there have been so many examples of horror. But I do not agree with the fact that we on the part of the Danish Parliament must dictate in detail how this sense is ensured.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133510	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133514	I have the impression that the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance are going to set the Covenant Crown free. Now we have heard in the past that the Danish People's Party needs a study of what will happen if you do so. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur, who I know has an economic scientific background and who sits in the Committee on Finance and other excellent things, whether the rapporteur needs a study to know what direction the price will take if an overheated market frees the cooperative crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133556	I thank the questioner for saying that I have an economic scientific background and unfortunately I have not; I have just been interested in economics for many years, but I cannot pride myself on having an education in it. I've only been interested in it. But I have no doubt what's gonna happen if you set the Coroner free. There will be a greater adaptation of supply and demand, there will be less money under the table, there will be fewer such cases of giving away the cohabitation in exchange for family members, etc. So the grey market that exists under the cooperative housing market today will be reduced and we will have a more real market where supply and demand meet each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133636	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133638	I did not get any answers as to how prices will move. Will they fall or will they rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133645	Well, they're gonna go up in a lot of places.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133648	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Charlotte Dyremose.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133654	In the Conservative People's Party, too, we have, of course, witnessed the rather problematic situations in which a number of cooperatives have been involved; we have therefore also read this bill in this light. We believe, in fact, that it provides a good basis for one to stand on solid ground, on a solid foundation when establishing a cooperative housing association. We believe that it is appropriate to tighten up the requirements for a secure economy, transparency and strong support. We also believe that a very good balance has been struck on the basis of the proposal, and I should like to pay tribute to the Minister, who has to do so in order to have been responsive to lowering the limit to 60%. in the bill that is here. We also think that this is a reasonably reasonable rent. However, at the very least, we believe that the balance created in this proposal is quite reasonable. And we have a hope and an expectation that it will make the cooperative housing associations that will be created in the future stand on solid ground and thus also provide stable conditions for the people, the families who live in them, and that must of course be the main purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133826	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133830	I would like to ask the same question that I put to the previous rapporteur: what will happen if, as the Conservative People's Party proposes, the cooperative home is released in a market where more and more people move to and where not many more homes are built? After all, we received a very clear answer from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen before. What is the Conservative rapporteur's response to: what will happen to prices, for example? in Copenhagen, if you release the cooperative residence price?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133903	Now I'm just like sir. Ole Birk Olesen is not an economist, and that's why my guess is as good or bad as Mr. Olesen. Ole Birk Olesens. Now Mr. Ole Birk Olesen to the grey market under the cooperative housing, but I must admit that I think it may be an insult to call it only grey because there is a rather large black market with black economy and money under the table. And that is one of the reasons why we think it is rather inappropriate to have a reality where prices seem to be something quite different from what is the conditions for those people who are actually going to be able to pay a great deal below the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133943	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113133944	Then I'll ask another question. After all, the rapporteur's party is a party which is in favour of law and law in this country, and money under the table is a smack of law in relation to the upcoming lease law, we are also going in and tightening up the penalty for money under the table. So what will the Conservative People's Party do about the fact that, as the rapporteur says, there is a whole lot going on that is illegal? What will the Conservative People's Party do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134023-2	Now it has been so much mocked that the Danish People's Party had a wish that you could do something and take a closer look at the conditions here. So, frankly, I think that proposal is very constructive. And the fact is that the huge amount of money under the table clearly shows that there is a huge discrepancy between supply and demand, a huge discrepancy between the prices that are and what people actually think these cooperatives are worth. That is why I believe that there is also reason, not only to ensure law and order, but also to ensure that things are right and fair in our society. And there is therefore a great imbalance in this area in relation to prices and demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134104	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134110	I would like to start by thanking you for the very positive reception of the draft law. There have been a number of comments along the way and, as is always the case when the Housing Committee is discussing, there are also some statements of principle that it is always good to tighten up attitudes a little. With this bill we take a further initiative in it, you can almost say the three-step rocket of initiatives we have taken in the cooperative housing area, after we have seen how bad things have gone for some of the co-owners. So quite ordinary people who have got caught up, because smart developers and even banks have been through some very, very smart solutions. And I think that is essential in order to secure confidence in the cooperative housing market. Following the introduction in 2013 of rules that ensure greater transparency in the trade in housing, it is important that we tackle the problems of associations that have been created on the basis of poor economy. So it is my opinion that we should do it best when we tackle it, so to speak, at the root of the evil, namely when the associations are formed. In the mid-00s we saw that a great many associations were formed on the basis of a material that really was not linked economically. Therefore, with this bill, we are tightening up the rules and we are tightening up the requirements for the creation of cooperative housing associations. Firstly, we are tightening up the requirement for participation so that it will be 60%, and I would like to thank Mrs Charlotte Dyremose for her commendation. It is true that at first we had said two thirds, but we listened to the joint representation of the cooperative associations, which wanted it down to 60%. May I just say here that, as far as I am informed by my ministry, it is actually the case that the mortgage credit system today makes a little higher demands than the 60%. But let's just leave it alone. In any case, it must be established on a solid financial basis among the tenants, because this ensures that there are enough tenants who want to join the association from the start. It will also mean that there are more shareholders to ensure the good daily operation and that you are not based on air castles and the sale or rental of apartments, as Mr. Eigil Andersen said, but ensures that there is a good daily operation. It will also provide a better financial basis for the association. Secondly, it has been mentioned quite a number of times that proper budgets must be drawn up before the foundation. And there we ban a number of things that used to be in many of these very smart developers' and developers' budgets, where we now say that it has to be based on a 30-year loan, which is transparent, so you can see what you say yes to. For information, I can also say that I think it is the case that, whatever type of loan you take to your private dwelling, there has to be a 30-year projection of it. When I have discussed with the banks about lending my own property, I have seen every time that there is a projection of 30 years ahead. I think it is fair and proper. In addition, there must be a budget for each type of loan which is considered for the financing of the purchase, and there must also be a comparable budget based on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loan with instalments so that you can see what is most advantageous and what is to be taken. The budget shall cover a period of at least 10 years from its foundation and shall also be supplemented by forecasts for the remainder of the financing period. In this way it is ensured that substantial changes in the conditions are known, because we have seen a great many times that repayment-free loans have been made, and suddenly there will be a bomb on a stair loan or a swap loan that could not be changed along the way. The requirements therefore mean that the tenants who are considering taking over a property on a cooperative basis will have much better opportunities to see through the risks of a given form of finance. And here we have to remember that we are talking about ordinary people who are not economists and who do not understand these budgets and cannot understand what they are getting. In any case, we have seen that there are a number of cooperative housing associations which have come into a huge economic mess. In those words, I shall look forward to good committee work, but I would like to make a few comments on the points that have been made along the way. Mrs Karina Adsbøl from DF asked why a more fundamental analysis should not be carried out, and I would like to say that basically it is my position and that of the government, and I believe that it is also the view of the majority of the current Parliament that the maximum price should last. We must remember that at national level, the cooperative housing population is approximately 9%. of the total housing stock, but especially in our large cities there are quite a lot of places in Copenhagen, for example. barely 20%. It can be said that there is currently a very favourable trend in the housing market, and there are regular reports that lay times on cohabitation homes, especially in Copenhagen, are decreasing and that they are increasingly being sold without the maximum price being refused. A removal of the maximum price would allow the current shareholders to obtain a capital gain from a sale • there is no doubt about that. But should we consider the proposal made by the Left to abolish maximum prices, I would say that that is not enough reason, because the disadvantages are simply too great. We lose the advantage of having a form of accommodation that lies between the owner- and tenants' residence. And for the potential buyers, everything else equal will be a disadvantage, for the price will rise. It removes, as it were, the protection around the cooperatives, which ensures that there is a certain supply of cheap housing as an alternative to both owner and tenant housing. Secondly, it will be harder and more expensive for new cooperatives to enter the housing market, and it can be said that the profits will then go to those who have a co-habitation right now, but that will in the long term make it more expensive to have a co-habitation. We can see how the prices are on condominiums and there is no doubt that the cooperatives will approach that price. It is almost logic for caged hens I apologise, Mrs Adsbøl, that the price will rise if it becomes a completely free market without a maximum price. And the profits will only be for those who own the current co-habitation, but it will be enormously difficult for those who have to enter the market. In addition, there are a large number of tax issues, because today a cohabitation is not being taxed. It will be forward-looking if it is to be compared to the owner-occupied housing form. So if you have to list the advantages and disadvantages, it will undoubtedly be more expensive for ordinary people, and fewer educators, SOSU helpers and police officers can live in our large cities in an apartment at a reasonable price and quality. So I would like to say that I and the government will fight to maintain the cooperative housing form so that we can maintain a varied housing market, where cohabitation is an affordable alternative to owner-occupied housing. So a form of housing that, as I said, places itself in the middle of the apartment and the owner's residence. There was then a discussion about this with money under the table and bounty. My impression is that with the changes you made in the '00s, that part of it came to an end. The prices of cohabitation units also increased sharply, as Mr. Lars Dohn said. I don't know that there should be many deals with bounty underneath the table. We've just tightened the bounty order, and in this connection we looked at how many cases we actually have on bounty. I think it can be counted on one hand. That does not mean that there can be no more, but I think it is extremely excessive to say that there is a lot of black money under the table. I simply do not believe that we can at least not see it in the figures that we have and we cannot see it in relation to the cases that are being reported. However, if someone should be reported, we have, at the request of the Danish People's Party, tightened the reward clause: If you have once violated the reward rules of the rent law, you may be deprived of the right to be a landlord for the second time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134859	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134901	Now that the government wants to introduce a rule which would prohibit the formation of cooperative housing associations with a participation rate of less than 60, is this due to the absence of cooperative housing associations with a participation rate of less than 60, which are working well and well today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134921	I do not know what all cohabitation associations were founded at the time, but there are certainly cooperative housing associations which work well with less than 60%. But we've seen a long line, not the Duegarden, as Mr. Lars Dohn mentioned "cohabitation associations," which have been established on an excessively narrow residential basis, and we would like to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134941	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113134943	However, if there are well-functioning cooperative housing associations today, and it is a little strange that the Minister has not got into what has been set up with a participation rate of less than 60, then it is a pity if those associations could not be formed in the future. In other words, if this law had been adopted now, the good, skilled, well-run cooperative housing associations with a participation rate of less than 60 could not exist because they would then have been banned even if they were working well today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135018	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen apparently believes that we should not learn from the financial crisis we have just been through; we should just continue as we have done so far, so that the financial markets can dry people around the ears with all kinds of solutions that people cannot see through, and by the way, we just have to keep starting at 30%. We do not believe that in the government. A majority in the Folketing does not mean it. It is fair to say that there must be a certain number of tenants in order to ensure a stable income in the future, and there must be no possibility of speculating without knowing what accounts are needed. There we simply disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135051	Sir. Lars Dohn for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135053	Thank you for a very nice clear answer to what happens if you release the co-coron. That is a logical but clear answer. I believe that in his reply the Minister confused the proportion of general housing in Copenhagen with the share of cooperative housing associations. Actually, it's 32%. cohabitation associations in Copenhagen, and that makes the situation that will arise if the cooperative housing price is released. But what I want to ask is: if it is so persistently claimed by the bourgeois side that there is money under the table in the cooperative housing associations, will the Minister not help to make a provision that is parallel to the one we are about to make in connection with the rental law, where we are tightening up the penalties for illegal rewards? Then we could get beyond that discussion and then the bourgeois did not have the argument that money is being given under the table and that therefore the price must be released.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135159	As far as percentages are concerned, how many percent? And the percentage of what? But my information right at the moment. Mr President, I would like to say that we are talking about 19 per cent. of the total housing stock in Copenhagen. Sir. Lars Dohn's figures may have been calculated in relation to the number of occasions, I dare not say that. But let's get back to it. At least that's about 20 percent. and maybe over 20%. But it is quite a lot of homes in Copenhagen that are cohabitants. Compared to the thing about saying if it ain't broken, why fix it: If there's no indication that there's a lot of money underneath the table, why do we have to do a lot about it? But let's see if that's the case. Based on the feedback I've just received from my ministry, it doesn't indicate that there's a lot of black money underneath the table. I certainly cannot think of any examples of this at all, but I am willing to enter into a dialogue on it if it turns out to be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135251	Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135254	Thanks for the commitment. Sometimes it can also be useful to discuss it is a nice experience. And then, as we approach a holiday, I will put a whole box of Christmas cookies on the assumption that the share of the cooperative housing in the total number of dwellings in Copenhagen is 32%, but we have to put that to the test.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135314	Now that it has to be, I would like to say that it is a little bit boring that it is only Christmas cookies, but we must take that with us. When Mr. Lars Dohn mentioned something about a box, I thought it was something we could take care of at the Christmas meeting of the Housing Committee, but let us look at the percentages and come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135331	The minister is not obliged to eat them. Mrs Adsbøl has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135337	I should now like to cut out what the Danish People's Party is calling for, because the minister says it is logic for battery hens. We are simply calling for the cooperative housing market to become something more transparent, and we are not alone in that. I quote again from Altinget, where Tejs Volfsberg Carstensen points out that there is a general lack of transparency in this area and that there is no analysis in this area. That is why he is calling for statutory accounting standards, and he is also calling for some impact assessments and some databases. That is what is lacking in this area, and that is also what the Danish People's Party is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135424	We have, of course, and Mrs Karina Adsbøl herself has voted in favour of the cooperative housing sector on several occasions, so that it is now much more transparent for the buyer to find out what kind of financing costs are involved. We are introducing a traffic light system for all new loans. We ask about the technical standard: Should the fall trunks be changed, new roofs must be on etc. so that the potential buyer who may be knows about it. We have taken up the value assessment, as Mr. Lars Dohn mentioned, and says that for two years after a foundation you cannot make new assessments and assess and then borrow further. The purchase price must be the one in force for the first two years. We have now said with this proposal that when you start it must be on a solid economic basis and you must know about the economy for the next 10 years, but also for the next 30 years. So I think we have actually tried to implement much of what Mrs Adsbøl says about having transparency, knowing the economy, restoring confidence in the cooperative housing sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135524	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135530	I quote again what they are calling for: we need a database of the prices at which cooperatives are traded. This is happening today in a closed market, and therefore knowledge is only available within the individual associations. The market is not effective because people cannot see through what real prices should be on. The evidence in the discussions is non-existent, he says. And again Tejs from Andresbasen.dk says so. But the Minister disagrees. The Minister believes that we have a broad analysis in this area and a transparent market, I understand from what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135613	What I am saying is that we have made a large number of changes in order to restore confidence in the cooperative housing area. We have implemented a large number of schemes that allow ordinary people to have confidence that it is on a solid basis when they act or set up. We have taken a whole series of discussions on this and we have implemented a number of legislative proposals, and this is the third step in the rocket, one might say. To this extent, whether we should carry out extensive analyses of what they will then be dealt with in relation to the maximum price and other things, and whether we have an overview of it, I can say that we do not have that at all trades, but we are getting a better overview when entering through the new information sheet. I would urge Mrs Karina Adsbøl to ask a written question and then I would like to explain that we are actually on the way to getting a better overview of these actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135656	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135659	After all, it is extremely striking that this is the Minister's third or fourth bill in the area of cooperative housing, and it is always such small corners. And what are we going to discuss here? It's not the bill at all. The minister spends most of his speech discussing the Left's co-habitation plan. That is not what we are dealing with today at all. But I think it could be a really good idea to have a wider talk about the whole cooperative area. I believe that we need to review the entire cooperative housing area and look at how we can simplify the legislation, and that is not something the Minister has proposed. With this bill, there is a small movement in the right direction, so that we ensure more economic stability... it backs up the Left... but at the same time, the minister has also made this key figures table, which is terribly complicated, and which has made it impossible for there to be any non-administratively run cooperative housing associations, which I think is huge sin. So I would just like to call on the Minister instead to take a general debate on the cooperative housing area if the Minister, like us, also feels that the Minister's bill is so relatively small and that it does not deal with the cooperative housing area to the extent that it really should have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135814	Well, I'm being asked by DF about an analysis of maximum prices and whether I will carry out such an analysis. I reply to that because it is polite as a minister to reply to what is being asked. In relation to what I have said, I have the speech over there and I will gladly forward it to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, so that you can see what I said about the bill, because I actually spent most of my time on that. But I think this is a question of principle, i.e. whether, as the Left suggests, the cooperative sector should be freed. I have indicated what I think of it, but I would urge the Housing Committee to call a question on the cooperative housing area, because it is a very fundamental question, but I can only do so if the Folketing wishes to have that debate. It could be exciting in a question debate to discuss what you want in relation to the cohabitation area, because this is where the water separates. It is quite fair to have different views, but as I see it, prices will rise • and I think that is, as I said, logic for cageboats and it will only be for the benefit of those who live in the current cohabitation form, and we will get some prices similar to those on the owner housing market, namely the condos. But let us finally have the discussion I think it is a good discussion to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135927	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113135929	If we are to have that debate, I would say that we do not believe that market prices can be suppressed, and that is why we have seen for a number of years that cooperative housing has been sold with money under the table and that they are not now being sold at the maximum price. So the maximum prices are very misleading. But since we are talking about everything else, I would like to know if the Minister could respond to what I have asked the Minister several times to explain to me, namely what this key figures table gives of extra costs for the cooperatives. Because, as I understand it, it has become even more complicated than originally intended, and now it is staggered in relation to the annual report that you have to tell us about these figures and that is to say, you have to find them twice a year. Does the Minister have any new indications as to what the cost is to the cooperative housing companies with the ratios?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140015	In relation to the maximum price, I would say that it ensures that you cannot just go up to some market amount, but that you have a fixed price that you cannot go over. In the past, at least during the crisis, they were sold below the maximum amount, and they also do so in different places around the Danish country, but not in the Copenhagen area, as I am currently told. So the maximum price is one way to maintain that the cohabitation is between the owner's residence and the tenant's residence. In relation to the information sheet, I think we have found a very good method which is wonderfully non-bureaucratic and one can fill it in in an easy way. And we have not left the analyses we have done, namely that it costs me not to remember the hour right now; Mrs Louise Schack Elholm must bear that in mind. But you can easily fill it out, and you can also get help with it. We have set up a hotline where people can call in, and many have used it diligently. And you're actually happy about that, I was told on the 40th anniversary of the joint representation of the cooperative residences in Odense here recently.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140116	Thank you to the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Affairs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140133	Mr President, first of all I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mads Rørvig
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140159	Thank you. The bill we are now discussing is part of the growth package that the government has concluded with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party. It is a broad agreement that must ensure that some of the burdens on business are removed, thereby making growth and employment more effective. This bill specifically deals with the full deduction of VAT on hotel nights and tax harmonisations for taxis, etc. The first part of the bill concerns a change in the VAT deduction for hotel nights. The change means that the deduction will be increased so that Danish and foreign companies will have full deduction rights from 2015 onwards for their VAT expenditure on hotel nights in Denmark. This follows the developments we have seen in recent years when the VAT deduction in this area has been increased. With effect from 1 January 2011, the then government of VK took the initiative to increase the rate from 25 per cent. to 50%, and with effect from 1 January 2014, the rate was increased from 50%. to 75%, which is the current level. The change in the possibility of VAT relief is estimated to result in an annual reduction in revenue for 2015 and up to 105 million. kr. after retreat and behavior. The bill is a welcome handout to the hotel business. Danish hotels suffer from a very high price level, and several studies show that Danish hotels are among the most expensive in Europe. This means, among other things, that Denmark is less attractive to large companies in relation to the placement of courses and meetings, since it simply gets more for money in other EU countries. This is now partly corrected by the introduction of a full right to deduct VAT on hotel nights. We believe that this is the right direction to take, because we must and must get the very high price level in Denmark into a rent where it is possible to compete with our nearest neighbouring countries. The aim is, of course, to create employment in the hotel industry, which is a sector represented throughout the country and where there is a need for many different types of labour • both skilled and unskilled. There is therefore a great potential in facilitating the conditions of this industry so that the great growth potential can be met. The second half of the bill provides for the introduction of tax harmonization in the taxi sector so as to ensure equal taxation conditions. This is done by implementing the following measures: Abolition of registration fees for taxis, limousines and sick transport vehicles, so that all cars for professional passenger transport are exempt from registration fees. On the other hand, a new system is introduced for the free movement of taxis and limousines, so that registration fees will be paid in future for the resale of taxis and limousines. Similarly, the current charges for public service cars will be adjusted so that all types of vehicles are exempt from weight and fuel consumption tax and double countervailing charges will be paid for diesel cars. The harmonisation of the tax rules leads in 2017 to an additional revenue of 85 million. kr. and, in 2020, 135 million. kr. According to the Government, the aim of this amendment is to ensure a uniform and far more transparent tax system for all passenger cars intended for commercial transport. The Left would have liked to have been more ambitious in the context of the growth package. The Danish economy is still stagnant, and it is not improved by the fact that Danish industry is hard hit by high taxes and unnecessary bureaucracy. For the Left, it is crucial that more jobs are created in the private sector. We must be able to compete with our neighbouring countries, especially Germany and Sweden. After all, that is a clear objective, and with the growth package we are a small step closer. As I said, the Left would have liked to see a much more ambitious growth package. Instead, the government has chosen to climb the money away for gifts to the trade union movement, among other things. with a proposal in the first draft Finance Act on increased deductions for union membership. We have also seen under this government that there has been no loss of opportunity to raise taxes. The NOx tax has been raised and the well-known housing job scheme, which many Danes have enjoyed, has been abolished. However, the growth package is a small step in the right direction, and when the government takes a few steps in the right direction, we are happy to push on from the left and help where it makes sense. From the Conservative People's Party, I have to say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140739	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140742	Regardless of what we think of this increase in registration fees on hired vehicles sold, what does the Left think of it being carried out so quickly that the taxi driver, who has contracts for several years in the future and who has been concluded on the assumption that it was the old freeway system that applied, suddenly suffers an additional cost as a result of this change, which makes the contracts no longer profitable for him?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140818	I can follow the issue that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentions here. And that is also something we must have delved into in committee to see if it has any revenue implications. One might imagine that the municipalities, which are the largest customer for taxi companies in Denmark, may have some, you might say counterclaims to the state in the form of equalisation in some way that has an effect on the proceeds of the bill that lies there. So this is something we need to dig into during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140852	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140853	Does the very precarious situation of those road hauliers who have contracts that run out in the future and that have been concluded before this came on the table mean that the Left will not vote in favour of this bill if the situation of road hauliers is not resolved, or will the Left vote in favour of this proposal, regardless of the fact that the precarious situation of road hauliers continues because the government cannot be persuaded to do anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140918-2	This proposal on taxi is not one that has grown in the left, and it is not one that we have proposed ourselves. We have reached a compromise on a growth package. We would have liked to have seen it look very different and more ambitious, but that was the package we could have made, and of course we stand by it because it also contains a number of positive elements that create more jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140946	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113140954	Thank you. As you know, the bill here is part of the growth package of June, on which virtually all parties in the Folketing have reached an agreement. As the rapporteur of the Left has just said, we are dealing with two areas of the bill here: tourism and the taxi industry. In both areas, we want to ensure a little more equal competition and better opportunities. First, the Danish tourism industry is in sharp competition with other EU countries where there is full right to deduct hotel nights. Therefore, we propose that the VAT deduction for hotel nights be increased, so that Danish and foreign companies will have full right of deduction for their VAT expenditure on hotel nights in Denmark as from 2015. This will make the Danish tourism industry more competitive with the other countries and will make it easier to attract Danish and foreign professionals. Hopefully, the proposal will help to boost the tourism industry a little, so that more jobs can be created in this area around the country. I can also see that the proposal has been very well welcomed when I look at the answers to the hearings. The second part of the proposal is, after all, about harmonising tax rates in the taxi sector. It is, of course, with the aim of ensuring more fair competition that we want to have this tax harmonization, and that is why we want to abolish the tax registration tax for taxis, limousines and sick transport, so that all cars falling within the category of passenger cars for commercial passenger transport are exempt from registration tax. At the same time, equality is being achieved so that taxis can no longer be freed. In this way registration fees will be paid in future when taxis are sold on. Finally, current taxes on public service cars will be re-established so that all types of vehicles will be exempt from weight and fuel consumption tax and double countervailing charges will be paid for diesel cars. These changes will enter into force on 1 January 2015, and it is perhaps worth saying to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that it is clear that taxis registered before that date will continue to be freed according to the rules in force. All in all, this bill ensures more fair competition and, on the part of the Socialists, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141223	It is expensive for road hauliers to operate road haulage in the hire car industry. In other industries, companies will normally just raise the price because that is what it takes to get things running around with the new costs that have been incurred. In this situation, we are dealing with a profession that is heavily regulated, also with maximum prices for how much they can take. Is it the view of the Socialists that it is now the case that the taximeter price should be allowed to rise, recognizing that the cost to hauliers has increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141306	It's a real characterization of the area. It is a very regulated area and I would say that you can choose to do several different things in response to this. You can choose to drive longer in the cars you would otherwise have had to go free and then have sold on, if that is a part of the prerequisite for example. It is an invitation to tender that has been won or, in concrete terms, what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is asking about. You can also choose to buy a cheaper car if that is what it takes to ensure that the assumptions you have put into a tender or an accounting or whatever it may be are linked. So I believe that there is scope for action in relation to what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141348	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141350	The things that Mrs Astrid Krag is proposing are something that any haulier can already do today, and if it were true that it was so simple to minimize her costs, then any haulier or at least many would do so today, so as to make a greater profit. If they do not do so today, perhaps it is because it is not as straightforward as Mrs Astrid Krag imagines. Summa summarum is at least going to be more expensive when it comes to being a hire car driver with the new proposal, and I would like to hear from Mrs Astrid Krag whether the higher costs must be borne by the consumers who drive the taxis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141427	I would say that we can then have a longer philosophical talk about why people act the way they do. I think that the fact that you can free the cars has a lot to say about what kind of cars you choose to buy in the taxi business. We can always talk about that over a cup of coffee. But in this way I think things are connected that way, whereas I can hear that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will create a connection that goes the other way around. As I said, you can choose to do different things in response to this. One of the reactions may be to raise prices, but it is clear that there are limits to it, because it is a regulated market in the way it is. Then I'll just say there are two other alternatives here. It may be that cars are not so frequently replaced. I think that will be a logical response to the fact that you can no longer free the cars. It may also be that one chooses to replace equally frequently, but then replace for a less luxurious model. Both of these things I think can be quite fine. I'm still gonna be comfortable getting into a cab anywhere in the country, even after this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141527	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113141537	As mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, this bill is part of the growth package that was adopted in June of this year, and at least this part of the growth package is part of the Danish People's Party, so of course we also support the bill, because of course we stand by the agreements we have concluded. The first part of the bill provides for a full VAT deduction for the cost of hotel nights by companies. That is now 75%, and it is then increased to the full right of deduction for VAT expenditure. We think this is a very positive approach to business tourism in Denmark. This makes it more attractive for both Danish and foreign companies to hold a conference in Denmark or even to go to a hotel in Denmark, and we think that is good. It is also something that we in the Danish People's Party have been pushing for for several years. This is both through motions for resolutions and by being included in agreements that have also been increased in the past, and this has been raised several times over the last few years. So at least we think it's very good to have such an approach. The second step in the legislative proposal is the harmonisation of tax rates for taxis, limousines, etc., in which the registration fee for passenger cars for commercial passenger transport is changed. It has been the case for a number of years that they have had a significantly lower tax than that on ordinary passenger cars. That's what you change with this proposal. After all, the bill contains two amendments. First of all, we are looking at the fact that the registration tax is levied on, among other things: taxis are abolished when cars are acquired, while at the other end of the journey the freeway system is abolished, so that you will have to pay full registration tax on the resale of taxis. The argument from the government is so that it provides a competitive equality. I have looked a little more closely at the calculations of the proceeds in this proposal, and I have to say that I have some doubts about how it is knitted together, so I think it is something that we might perhaps get a deepening of from the Minister of Taxation. That is something we should look at. What, for example, will the revenue be if it is older cars? Or what if people today buy a taxi, an expensive car, and maybe drive it for 6 years or 8 years instead of for 3 years, how is the revenue? Because it is not then sold to others with a full registration fee because you drive it for a long time. Or what if you sell the car abroad without registration fees? Then there will be no revenue for the Treasury. There is also the whole problem that Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen referred to a question to the previous rapporteur, namely that it is not possible to pass on these expenditures to, among others. consumers or local authorities, because it is, after all, a highly regulated market that we are working on where we are bound by invitations to tender and contracts. So I would like us to look a little more at how this funding has been found in the committee's work. That is not to say that the Danish People's Party is running out of the agreement, because we are parties to the agreement and help spend the money, and we are therefore of course also in favour of the proposal. However, it is clear that if the proceeds do not hold up that one can at least question the parties to the agreement, of course we must also sit down together and find another financing. One of the points I would like to make is that if you look at the bill on page 8, there are two sentences that conflict with each other. At any rate, I would like to see the Minister of Taxation explaining what is really up and down in this matter, because I do not think it is so clear. I read out: 'The effect on employment is calculated on the assumption that the additional costs for the profession, when the proposal is fully phased in, are passed on to the prices for the services provided by the profession. Then comes a sentence that does not have anything to do with it, but then comes a sentence at the end of the paragraph: "It is uncertain whether the extra costs can be passed on, since the taxi market is a regulated market where the municipalities determine inter alia. maximum driving charges. ▪ Both can't be right at the same time. It cannot be said both that the taxi industry is given the opportunity to pass on the prices of their services and, at the same time, that they are not able to do so because it is a regulated market. In any case, there is a contradiction with the issue of funding, which I think we need to get, if nothing else, a good explanation for. It may be that there is, but hopefully the tax minister will be able to explain that when he comes to the platform later. And if that is something that needs to be regulated in prices, I could also imagine that the municipalities might come and say that they will later be DT-regulated. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party is in favour of the agreements we make and we will support it, but we think we should have drilled a little more in the revenue implications of it. And then we'll have to figure it out. I would also like to point out that I find it a little regrettable that the taxi industry, when it asked how these calculations were arrived at and asked for access to documents, was refused this access. I think it is only fair that, as a sector, we should be able to verify the figures and the decisions we take here in the Folketing. So I also think it would be appropriate for us to show some openness to the industry that is being affected by this, so that they can, if only to check whether the conditions on which our decisions are based are now met. The Danish People's Party will support the proposal when we get there, but we have some things that we would just like to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we go to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karl H. Bornhøft.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142103	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I should like to say the following: the proposal here is primarily based on an increase in the VAT allowance for hotel overnight stays for Danish and foreign companies, so that it will be cheaper to stay in a hotel in Denmark, i.e. an increase in competition for the industry. Denmark is a country that actually has a lot to offer for tourists, Danish as well as foreign, and the bill will make it more attractive to spend money in Denmark. This is an improvement that will be felt in all the countries and will help create more jobs. In our view, this will benefit many of the outermost regions of the country. They will have better opportunities to exploit the potential for tourism, not least in those parts of the country where we have scenic areas that can attract both ordinary tourists and more meeting and conference guests. In addition, the draft law also provides for the harmonisation of tax rates in the taxi sector. The aim of the bill is to create fair competition and a more efficient profession with a better service. The abolition of registration fees for taxis, limousines and sick transport vehicles will create a level playing field for all types of commercial vehicles used for passenger transport. The aim here is, of course, to ensure equal taxation conditions throughout the country and to create greater transparency in the tax system. This concerns, among other things: on the abolition of the free movement system, in which we remove inappropriate support for the industry. The scheme has provided too much incentive to buy • in our view • for large cars in the luxury class and drive more instead of focusing on climate- and environmentally friendly driving. That will certainly be one of the things we want to change. Both the initiatives referred to here are, as you know, part of the June growth package. We stand by that, just as I can hear that fortunately others do too, and I can therefore say that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142329	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it's sir. Frank Aaen speaking for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142339	The Enhedslisten is part of a significant part of the growth package, including what we are discussing today. We think it is a good idea to give this relaxation of VAT for the sake of development, not least in those areas of Denmark where it is economically worst and where it is thus possible to have a tiny boost in the economy. We support that. We have been proposing, for years, for deaf ears, that taxis should be abolished. It is now included in this law, and of course we support it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142419	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142422	It's just that I'm so curious. If Enhedslistens thinks it is a good idea to introduce full tax relief for the purchase of hotel services by companies, why has Enhedslisten not voted in favour of it all the times in Parliament when we others have tabled resolutions on the same thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142444-2	It depends on the context it has been through the ages, but we have actually supported earlier in the tax negotiations over in the Treasury that this was done here, and the support we gave at the time in the Treasury, even though the agreement was not implemented, we are still giving, so now we are implementing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142503	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, who is now giving his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142511	We are dealing with a draft law on two very different things that have been put into the same draft law. It's a very bad custom that this government is very much using. The rest of us then propose an amendment to split it up so that it is possible to vote according to one's belief on each part of the bill, instead of having to vote for one, even if one is against it, because one wants to vote for the other, or to vote against one, even if one is in favour of it, because one wants to vote against the other. It must stop, it should not be that way. But it is a legislative proposal with two different points. One is about increasing the tax relief for companies buying hotel services. So far, it has been the case that we have come up with 75%. VAT relief, and we've always thought this was weird. Businesses have full tax relief on purchases made by companies to get companies to drive around other than hotel services. So if a company would like to do an employee seminar or a staff conference of some kind, or if a company would like to send an employee out into the world or out into Denmark to visit customers or the like, there is not full VAT relief of it. We fully agree with this discrimination, and we have tabled a resolution on this in the past, and we have supported the resolution of others, but the red majority in this Parliament has voted against it. Now the red majority has come to its senses and can see that what we have been saying all along was the best and the right thing, and now the government and the red majority are doing it themselves, and that is so gratifying. Then there's the other thing. That is where we have problems, because we are not in favour of that. We are not in favour of taxi drivers suddenly changing the rules for their registration fee payments over a night, so that it costs their work and their business in a way that they do not have a chance to prepare for it. Taxi road hauliers have concluded agreements with municipalities which will last 2 and 3 years in the future, and these agreements are, of course, subject to the condition that they have this free-way arrangement for hire cars. Then suddenly you don't have that anymore. And it is so true that the hire cars you have already bought can be taken out without being affected by the new rules, but when you have a contract that lasts 2 and 3 years in the future, there are some of the cars you have that are now on the way to retirement, and you have to buy some new ones. The new ones will then be covered by the new rules, and this will increase the provision of the services agreed with, for example. the municipality to deliver, without it being possible to obtain more money from the municipality on the contract, and that causes problems. Similarly, it causes problems that the hire car industry is so regulated on the price that the many private customers who use hire cars can not just add an additional cost by increasing the taximeter price. Nor can there be any compensation for the additional costs incurred by the hiremen. So the least the majority could do here was, of course, to ensure a long-term phasing-in of this, which takes account of the fact that contracts entered into must be allowed to run further, and moreover ensures that the hireman can be allowed to raise the price for private customers, however regrettable it may be, but it is better than that he goes downstairs and home so that he can pay the bills which the Danish Parliament imposes on him. But the Folketing doesn't give a shit and just wants to go through with this. 1 January 2015, and I think that is very, very regrettable and very, very arrogant and clever to the road hauliers who get into trouble. So the Liberal Alliance will certainly not vote for this bill. And that is not because we are opposed to the first part of the bill. On the contrary, we are very much in favour of this, namely with full tax relief for hotel services, but because we are very much against the fact that over one night the road hauliers are being charged these extra costs without allowing them to cover the costs of higher revenues. We will be tabling amendments to share the proposal and we hope that all parties in the Folketing will support it because it will be a good parliamentary custom. And if you do not want to, we are forced to vote against the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113142958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113143007	Growth is crucial for Danish society, and growth is dependent on giving the business community a reasonable framework, giving priority to growth and labour supply. It is therefore a bit shameful that we are talking about an agreement that should create growth and that we concluded before the summer holidays, on a day when a financial agreement has been concluded that reduces labour supply by 1,000 people, which reduces labour supply in a situation where there is a need for more productivity, where there is a need for a greater supply of labour, and where there is a need for a focus on productivity and innovation in the Danish society. Then the government enters into an agreement with SF and Enhedslisten, which pulls in exactly the opposite direction. It is disgraceful for the people's regime, it is disgraceful for democracy. I think this is relevant to mention in the context of the fact that we are discussing a growth agreement that we concluded with the government before the summer holidays and which aims to provide growth in business with various measures that we support, for example. tax and tax relief is a quite sensible small package, most of which is moving in the right direction. Two of the elements have been mentioned here today in the proposal that we are discussing. One part is a matter for which the Conservative People's Party, together with other good parties, has fought a brave battle for many years, in government and outside government, namely the full right to deduct VAT on hotel nights. This is a matter which is of great importance to the tourism industry, very much for our competitiveness in relation to other countries in this area, and I am quite sure that it will help to give a boost, a boost to the tourism industry in Denmark, so that we can at least compete on an equal footing with regard to the part that is about VAT. Denmark is already a high-cost country, but VAT does of course matter. It is a very good proposal and it is good that we could agree with the government on it, and many parties are behind it. The second part of the taxi proposal is not a flower that has grown in our garden. There were many elements that weighed for and against, back and forth, but in relation to the overall impact of the growth package, which we entered into with the government together with the Left and the Danish People's Party for a part and also the SF, we have assessed that this is beneficial for Danish business, and this gives net more productivity and growth and more jobs in Danish society. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113143240	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113143253	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the great support for the legislative proposal. I am pleased that a broad majority of parties from both sides of the House will support these initiatives from the Growth Agreement. First of all, the proposal means that Danish and foreign companies will in future receive full deduction of VAT on hotel nights in Denmark. The change will help to improve the ability of Danish hotels to attract Danish and foreign business customers and will thus create growth and jobs in the industry. Secondly, the proposal provides for tax harmonization in the tax area, which means that in future there will be equal taxation conditions for all passenger cars used for commercial passenger transport. The proposal will contribute to equal and fair competition in the taxi industry and will lead to improved efficiency and service. During the course of the negotiations, a number of questions have been raised which I would like to address. In fact, most of the questions have also been raised as questions and comments to some of the rapporteurs from the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, and I will therefore address a number of the elements, among others. the element about what is going to happen in relation to the phase-in. After all, I think it is essential to emphasise that it has been the case that the proposal was published in connection with the broadcast in consultation on 3 September 2014, i.e. 4 months before the planned entry into force. In addition, it has also been known material, all the time that it was part of the agreement from this summer. This also means that it has also been possible to act accordingly in the industry. The proposal has effect for vehicles registered as from 1 January 2015 or later and therefore no changes are proposed for vehicles subject to the applicable rules before that date, i.e. before 1 January 2015. Thus, the draft law does not apply to vehicles currently covered by the free movement system. They can continue their work unchanged. Also, taking into account the lifespan of taxis and the typical contract time of different contracts, it seems to be a reasonable condition to give each other, also because the industry has had the opportunity to act on this since the summer, so if we had the opportunity then to dispose of it and trade a new car before the turn of the year, and this possibility still exists. Although we adopt this bill, it is only from the turn of the year that it will enter into force. Importantly, it is also to mention the element that is about prices. It is clear that when a subsidy is removed, as it is, a tax subsidy, it will of course have an effect. The taxi market is a regulated market in which the municipalities determine, inter alia: maximum driving charges. Thus, the price formation in the taxi services market is regulated and it is therefore uncertain whether the additional costs resulting from tax harmonisation can be passed on to prices. In the long term, however, it is to be expected that the tax concession to the taxi industry will be abolished in taximeter prices. It is quite essential to make that clear. Then there is the question of the actual course of this proposal, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. He mentions that these are two very different things: hotel VAT and taxi. It is, of course, true that these are two different areas, but there is still the clear connection that when you make an agreement in an area where you spend some money, you also have to find a way to finance it, and it is so that in the growth agreement that we have been made very broadly that we find funding and also help to make a settlement, and that is why there is actually a very clear link between things. I am well aware that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also knows in all sorts of other areas that, of course, you have to find money for what you want to do, and that is why I think it is very natural that you have the opportunity to take a position on, if I may say so, both the bitter and the sweet, which is in connection with an agreement like this one. I also think it is worth noting that since the Liberal Alliance is now the only party that is critical of the overall draft law, the report of what is popularly known as the taxi committee made the following recommendation from October 2013: "In the context of a future change in regulation, the issue of tax treatment of vehicles should be included as an element. The report goes on to state that, following a common licence for commercial passenger transport services with passenger cars, it would be natural to consider the future tax treatment of vehicles. In the taxi committee's report, it was therefore a premise for liberalising the rules governing the profession that the charges for the different types of authorisation had to be standardized. That is also why the government in the growth scenario in spring 2014 is proposing both liberalisation of the industry and alignment of taxes. If you are now rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, it would perhaps have been obvious if you had been actively involved in the negotiations and thus helped to influence the moment I assume that the Liberal Alliance would have had an interest in the fact that the part of the proposal which was concerned with some liberalisations and improvements for the industry had also been concluded. It was not possible for the government to find a majority for it, but I would just remind you that it is the case that when you are involved in making agreements and taking responsibility, you are also able to influence the decisions taken. So I have a great deal of respect for sir. Ole Birk Olesen's views on the individual points, but I must also just remind you that if you have an interest in influencing things in a particular direction, you must, of course, also participate actively. I would just remind you of this, since this is also the case, I think that when you have a comprehensive agreement and have to implement the overall agreement, you also have to indicate the common one. Now, I am not going to give a vote guide to the Liberal Alliance, I am quite sure that the Liberal Alliance itself is aware of the possibilities, but I must say that I am not prepared to make a split bill. But it will be the case that the Liberal Alliance is very welcome to make a comment along the way, that is to say, regardless of whether you are going to make a comment, for example. in writing. - (FR) If we vote red, that is to say to vote against, or if we choose to vote yellow and thus abstain, we have the possibility of indicating which parts of the proposal we agree with and which parts we disagree with, for example. in connection with the submission of a report. In this way, one can thus have the opportunity to demonstrate how the party's positions on a given point are. In relation to the comments made by the Danish People's Party in the debate, I would just like to point out that it is the case that, following the proposed changes, driving for municipalities and regions takes place in a market where the taxation of vehicles is harmonised, and that is also the reason for this element of the draft law's comments. Since the changes result in increased costs in parts of the industry and unchanged or reduced costs in other parts of the industry, and as municipalities and regions have adapted their consumption, it cannot immediately be concluded that the proposed harmonisation creates significant costs for municipalities and regions. In other words, the creation of a level playing field in the market and the absence of any change in some areas, or direct reduction in costs, are the consequences of the comments contained in the draft law, which are the logic behind it. With these words, I shall simply say that I look forward, of course, to the further examination of the legislative proposal. I will also endeavour to answer the questions that come before the committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144217	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144221	If in spring 2014 a trucker has entered into a 3-year contract with a municipality for the delivery of driving, then it is the Minister's claim that the profitability or profit of the 3-year contract for the coachman is completely unaffected by this, although at the same time the Minister says that the bill will remove what the minister calls a tax subsidy from the coachman. It doesn't add up. If you remove a subsidy, a tax subsidy, for the operation of road haulage, it goes beyond the profitability of the contracts that last three years or extend more than two years into the future after the implementation of the bill. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144323	But I do not know the length of agreements and contracts in the taxi industry, except, of course, that I know that there are some contracts which certainly have a shorter contract time than that which Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned. But it is also clear to me that the best course would of course have been if the entire government's proposals in this area had gone through; that is obvious. I could see that the Liberal Alliance has certainly not had an interest in helping to influence, so that in this area too it could have been said that there were both sour and sweet things that had been involved, that is to say the liberalisation that could have been carried out in this area. This has not happened, but it does not change the fact that the contracts concluded in the short term ■ where I can understand that contracts of shorter duration are often also concluded, among other things. because of fuel prices and other factors are not affected at least. But it is of course no different from the fact that, in the best of all worlds, we would have liked the entire government's proposals to have been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144440	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144442	In other words, we could support the liberalisation part; we had no problem with that. We're having problems with this. But there is a recognition that if you have long-term contracts, two-year contracts, three-year contracts, then they are affected by this change of law, which makes it less profitable with those contracts, and this happens to the trucker then unfortunately with some kind of retroactive effect. Then I'll hear about something. The Minister said that in the long term this will probably mean an increase in the taximeter price, and that is of course a good thing for the lorry driver if it will happen if the municipalities are open to it, but for consumers it is a pity. But the Minister is going into this, knowing that old Mrs Hansen and others who can't afford their own car will pay more to drive a taxi.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144536	In the end, it has to be said that if we had gone a step further, as the government also set out in its starting point, we would of course have been able to have some of these effects counteracted, and there is no doubt about that. It was not possible for the government to provide support for it. Well, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen now says in the clear light of hindsight that one could easily have been involved, but one was not. You didn't actually take responsibility for this. You're not part of the deal. And then there is the fact that responsible parties are, after all, the ones acting and concluding agreements, with the positive and negative consequences in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144621	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141113144636	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 14 November 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
