ParlaMint-DK_20141127100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment (Kirsten Brosbøl): Bill no. L 85 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on raw materials, the Law on Coastal Protection and the Law on Marine Strategy. Bill No. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payment Rules for Wastewater Supply Companies, etc., the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on the Organization and Economic Situation of the Water Sector. Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 11 (What information can the Minister give about the busyness of the country's maternity wards and the risk and insecurity of children, pregnant women and their relatives, and what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure continuous support and security for pregnant women and their relatives during the course of their birth?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100037	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100057	The debate is open. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100114	Railways are a good public transport solution in densely populated areas with a large passenger base. It was therefore with pleasure that in 2012 the Left contributed to the decision to build a 12 km long light track at Aarhus. The project is designed to involve the State with a grant for the construction of the light track, while the subsequent operation is to be carried out by a company set up by the owners of the light track, namely Aarhus Municipality and the Region of Midtjylland. The same model will be used at the upcoming light lanes in the Ring 3 corridor at Copenhagen, Odense and Aalborg. The State thus provides start-up aid for the first stage, after which the local and regional level will assume responsibility for the operation and construction of any further development. So far, so good. In the spring of 2014, we received a very unpleasant surprise when it turned out that the lowest bid for the construction of the light rail line at Aarhus was 1.8 billion. kr. This resulted in a minus of nearly 700 million. kr. In relation to the construction Act, 1.18 billion was committed. kr. I think it's historic. With this bill, we are dealing with the major problem that has arisen so that the project can be realised. The Minister of Transport, that is, the State, grants an additional grant of 330 million. kr. Aarhus Municipality deposits a similar amount extra in Aarhus Letbane I/S, and the Region of Central Jutland deposits an additional 78 million. kr. The project is then financed for the new and higher price, and it can be realized. It is always a pity and a pity, to say so in Jutland, when we are going to find extra money for a project for which we thought we had already found funding. This kind of thing postpones other important infrastructure projects and, as you know, there is plenty of work to be done. On the other hand, of course, it is quite untenable if the light field at the advanced stage had to be dropped altogether. I hope that we have all learned something from this unsatisfactory process, including that in the future we should be much better at making plant estimates for light rail projects. Here we can draw appropriate lessons from the many experiences from Europe, where a great many light rail projects have been carried out. This is not something entirely new under the sun, although this is the first time we have built an easy track in Denmark. Furthermore, it is my expectation that any budgetary problems for construction projects will be brought to the attention of us at a much earlier stage so that we can deal with it politically, including with regard to possible adaptation of the project to the economy available. The bill here also paves the way for the Minister of Transport to resign from Aarhus Letbane I/S. The company is then owned by the City of Aarhus at 87.7%. and by the Region of Central Jutland with 12.3%. The Left supports this change, which underlines politically that the State is no longer liable for unforeseen costs in relation to the further construction of the light rail. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the fact that in the final construction treatment and planning, more attention has been paid to the need to establish park and riding facilities, i.e. parks and travel facilities, in relation to the light track. A significant part of the potential passengers on the light track come in cars from other parts of East Jutland, and they should of course have the opportunity to park the car and take the light lane into Aarhus city centre, and you can only do so if you remember to establish some parking spaces. All in all, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100527	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so that is Mr. Jens Joel as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100541	Thank you. Of course, I am also pleased to discuss this bill today. I'm happy with the treatment we're going to have. I'm happy, of course, because I'm a Aarhusian and I know how much the light rail project means in Aarhus, but I'm also happy, because as a Social Democrat I know that the light rail is a good transport policy tool, a good solution for densely populated areas, and Aarhus is a city in rapid development. That is why I am also glad that the Danish Parliament was broadly behind the establishment of an easy track in Aarhus, and we have been very happy that it has been on track for the last few years. It is also true, as the rapporteur from the Left has already said, that when the last bids entered spring 2014, it turned out that there was a budget overrun. There were simply bids which were considerably higher than what was budgeted for. In this situation, good advice is expensive, but I would like to say that I am really happy that the Minister has succeeded in finding a solution with a group of parties behind the "Better and cheaper collective traffic" agreement, namely the Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party, the governing parties and the SF, so that at this advanced time we would not have to send a stop note I would almost have said so that we would not have to stop a very advanced project in Aarhus, and so that we could ensure that the easy path to establish will be the right size. Because it is not the case that you can just cut down and say that we will still get away with a good easy path if it lacks essential parts of what it should include. So I would like to thank the parties who helped to find a solution and who sat down and said that this has not been good enough, that it is not excusable, but that, of course, we have to deal with the situation we are facing today and therefore helped to find the 300 million. kr., which the State was to contribute further. That is about 100 million. kr. from the reserve which had already been set aside. The 331 million. kr. from Aarhus Municipality and the approximately 40 million. kr. from the region of Midtjylland is what makes it now possible to become a reality. I also think it is good that you equate the Aarhus Letbane project with the other light rail projects around the country, understood in the sense that the state will no longer be part of the company behind it, but will step out and provide a grant and let Aarhus Municipality and Region Midtjylland be owners and managers of this project. This also means that in future the state will not be liable for other things that may come from unforeseen challenges. But all in all, I think this is a good compromise. It is an important project for Østjylland, it is an important project for Aarhus, it has been an important project for transport policy in Denmark, and from here a great deal of thanks is due to those parties who actually chose to pick up the glove and find the money that was needed when Aarhus Letbane hit the headwind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100833	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127100839	Trams in Aarhus! We get the tram back, and it's amazingly pleasing. When we decided in a very broad circle of parties in 2009 to set aside the first 500 million. kr. to Aarhus Letbane later we added 200 million. kr. So far, so good. Unfortunately, we have to say that we have been very poor at calculating some things in Aarhus, because as several speakers have said, this overrun, which probably took us all a little by surprise, came at 700 million. kr. However, like the Socialist rapporteur, I am quite happy that we could find the means in a group of parties so that we could get this project on track, if that is the case. Ownership lies forward-looking with Aarhus Municipality and with the region, and that is quite, very good. They will then also bear responsibility for future budget overruns. I do not want to go into the figures; there has been much talk of them. Now I just want to look forward and then hope that the first tram will drive in Aarhus here within the next few years for the benefit and joy of the citizens. This is the first project, you might say, of several projects on light rail • I like to call it a tram, because it is really just that, it is and, as compared to the other projects, we will get to some of it later today, so the Danish People's Party seems to be a fantastic boost to public transport and something that we would certainly like to promote in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101031	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Liv Holm Andersen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101039	Thank you. This proposal that we are debating today, as several rapporteurs have said, is about giving Aarhus Letbane this 300 million or so. kr. to cover an increase, and I am really happy to be able to stand here and say that a solution has been found for a somewhat sluggish course. In the Radical Left, we are pleased that this solution has been found, and I know that you are also in Aarhus and in East Jutland, because you can then move on with the expansion that has been planned, and that is very good. As several have also mentioned, this is a real boost to public transport in Aarhus, in Aarhus Municipality and in general throughout Østjylland. As several rapporteurs have also said, part of the agreement is that the state is leaving Aarhus Letbane, and this is the second part of the bill, which is also a good idea and which we also support, among other things. because it creates the same conditions as for the other light rail projects, and that is really very good. The light track is, you might say, a well-functioning collective, green and alternative means of transport, which will save the individual citizen, the individual commuting time, and which connects Aarhus city in a new and efficient way with the municipality of Aarhus and creates a boost on the traffic front of East Jutland. As you know, as several people have also mentioned, the light rail construction has been stagnant for some time and has had some problems because of this unforeseen increase. I would like to stress once again that this is also something that we in the Radical Left regard very seriously and seem to have been a slow process. It is a pity that this has been the case, but it is also very good and I would like to thank you for finding a solution to it. So in the Radical Left, we welcome this proposal to allocate the extra money to Aarhus Letbane so that they can continue their good work for this good and important project. All in all, we believe that this light track is a greener and better collective system, which can ensure very good conditions for Aarhus and East Jutland commuters. That is why we are very pleased with this proposal and can support it to such an extent. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101310	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Anne Baastrup as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101317	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has carefully reviewed the hardships we ran into in connection with Aarhus Letbane, so I will not go into that. But I would say that since 2009 we have been waiting for this opportunity to look forward to the completion of Aarhus Letbane. I think it will make it easier for the Århusian citizens and the people of East Jutland to have a green and rapid drive in public transport, to have the opportunity to come from one end of the city to the other. And Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is right in saying that it also assumes that there are some park and riding facilities, so that drivers are not lured into the city; they must be outside and then jump on the light track. Because what we know is that the appearance in the city is vitally important, that is, that people actually use the light track and do not rush around in their own car. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to adopt this bill quickly. I'm glad that the state has come out of this agreement... I think that's important... so that we get a very clear ownership, i.e. that it's Aarhus Municipality and the region that's the owner of it and that there's no state interference. So I'm gonna sit down with great pleasure on the first train that leaves in three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101440	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101447	It has always been intended that the state would withdraw from Aarhus Letbane I/S. This is when the light rail is established and the operation must be initiated. It was the case at the time of adoption of the Construction Act that we actually criticized this relationship from the Enhedslisten side, as exactly Aarhus Letbane has quite special circumstances that make it actually desirable for the state to remain in the company. This is because the light track is connected to what some call the long rails, the state rail network for Odder and Grenaa, where DSB drives today, and where hopefully I am thinking of the Grenaa railway, will drive a lot of freight trains to Grenaa Harbour in the future. It is also about a major remodelling of Aarhus Central Railway Station... let's call it that which affects regional and remote traffic. And it is also about the future expansion with new lines, which also to some extent affect other rail-borne traffic. And then Aarhus Letbane is the first light track, and it could be very clever whether the state was also inside and helped to gather the experience of planning, operation and installations, which must of course come, and which has already arrived. Nevertheless, in better and cheaper public transport, we have made an agreement in which we accept that the state withdraws from Aarhus Letbane in exchange for us to sow, at least for the Enhedslisten, the conciliation circle saves some 100 million. kr. to cover the deficit which had already arisen early in the process. It was certainly not pretty, as other rapporteurs have said. The operation of the light rail network must, as usual, be put out to tender, and we also think this is a bad idea, not least because it will lead, presumably then, to another operator in the field of public transport, unless Aarhus Trackroads might want to bid. But we think it would be best if Central traffic were actually in charge of the operation. After all, it is a transport company that knows its territory and can coordinate light rails with trains and buses in the Aarhus area and on Djursland. We will, of course, vote in favour of the draft law despite our critical remarks, as we have, as mentioned in the Better and cheaper public transport group, reached a compromise on it. We do not think so, but of course we are delighted that the first light rail system will soon be rolled out in Aarhus. There is reason to rejoice at this when you are now as warm supporters of public transport as we are in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101742	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101749	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance has voted in favour of the establishment of Aarhus Letbane I/S and is part of the settlements that form the economic basis of the track. We are the starting point for light rails, but certainly not for the process that has preceded the adoption, and there are, as we hear, not many other parties in here either. On the other hand, they are, of course, deeply critical. After all, it is also a mystery to be able to operate with excesses of 700 million. kr. Compared to 1.178 billion. kr. And that's what's really unusual here. We have had a great many major projects over the last three to four years, which have all become cheaper, but this is all going to blow up in the opposite direction. It is such an overrun that most would say that they must have raided the price when they put the budget for this. Have there been any advisors inside? They're usually well paid. And what do they have explanations for this? Do you want to let them go? Those are the questions you could ask yourself. A lot can be speculated about the reasons one can have for putting up the first project that one has. But we are in a situation where we cannot do much about it, we have to say, and that has also been mentioned by several people. If we are to have the much-needed easy track at all, then we must find a solution, and this is done by having looked down into different boxes. The only positive thing on the part of the state is the change in company which this bill is about, namely that the state can now withdraw without having the risk of another huge bill. We hope that the result will be good for the citizens of Aarhus and the surrounding area, even though, as far as the artistic impression is concerned, it is more than failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101947	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127101955	Thank you, sir. President. There is no doubt that Aarhus Letbane will be an advantage for Aarhus city; it will be an advantage for the citizens, for the tourists, for the business community; it is all very well that the traffic intensity in the city will now be eased with more comprehension and less congestion etc. So overall, this is a really, really good solution, and we totally support it. When we come to the financing part itself, I have to say, as others have also said, that it has of course been an incredibly unfortunate process in which the cost has become so massive, i.e. another 700 million. kr. The money has been found, but it is of course absolutely necessary that, when we start and budget infrastructure projects, we keep it within the framework, so that we do not subsequently have to make such extra funding. It is also good that the minister, the ministry, is now stepping out and that it will then be Aarhus Municipality and the region that will take over the responsibility for the rest of things. We look forward to that as soon as possible. So the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102105	I would also like to thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102121	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you all around for the positive reception of the bill that we have witnessed here today. I am sincerely pleased that so many support the proposal. You just have to say that it is absolutely necessary that we get this through, and it is incredibly good for the whole of Østjylland, of course mainly Aarhus, that we can now make this a reality. The reason why we have to stand here again today and talk about this project is unfortunately, as several rapporteurs have said, that the project was 700 million. kr. More expensive than expected. And you can get upset about that, but when you're done with it, you're gonna have to act and have to clean up the mess. Therefore, we cleaned up, by working with Aarhus and the Region of Midtjylland to carry out a thorough review of the project and to find out how to do it, so that we got more realism into the project. At the same time, there was a thorough work with all the Danish Parliament's parties. And thank you for the willingness in various conciliation circles to settle a settlement which meant that we could find the money for the state's share of the expense. That is good, it means that the easy track can be built as planned, and that is what we are ensuring today. Part of the agreement on the State's additional funding was that the state resigns from Aarhus Letbane I/S, and that is what this bill we are discussing is about. This new construction for the construction company Aarhus Letbane I/S, where the state does not participate, but instead provides a grant for the construction of the light track, is a construction that is completely parallel to how we are engaged in Odense Letbane, the bill that we are dealing with right after this bill. I think that is a good model and I think that is the way to do it. Should we have done this from the start? Yeah, probably, but it doesn't matter, now we're here, and now we're gonna get it fixed to, so we're gonna make the right cut. Then you can be concerned whether this means that the model will then mean that in future there will be no supervision of what the state's money is spent on. Here I can reassure and say: on the contrary, when the state grants, we naturally have an obligation to conclude an agreement with the beneficiary, which describes the requirements of the state for the payment of the State's subsidies. So a so-called administrative agreement will have to be concluded with Aarhus Letbane, and in this context an audit instruction will also be prepared. As stated in the bill, both the state's initial contribution to Aarhus Letbane is 600 million. kr. and the State's share of the price increase of 330 million. kr., which in future will be granted as a grant. In addition, the bill allows the two local parties, the City of Aarhus and the Region of Midtjylland, to deposit their share of the increase in the company. Aarhus Municipality's share is 331 million. kr., and the Central Jutland Region's share is 78 million. kr. of the veneration. In addition, the bill states that in future the two local parties are responsible for financing unforeseen costs for the installation of Aarhus Letbane. After leaving Aarhus Letbane I/S, the State is no longer liable for unforeseen costs for the construction of the light rail network. Following this withdrawal of the plant company, there is a coincidence between the stakeholders of the plant company and the operator and the infrastructure company, which is why it is also the case that the draft law provides for the merger of the two companies, under the auspices of either one company or the other. However, the State has made provision for the possibility for the State to monitor the use of the State's subsidy to continue to exist after any merger. Finally, the draft law here contains a number of consequences in the current law on Aarhus Letbane as a result of the state's withdrawal from the construction company, and it is also, of course, the case that the state withdraws its members from the board of directors accordingly. All in all, thank you for your support for this bill. It will be good for the whole of Denmark, good for Østjylland, good for Aarhus, that in 2017 we can set up a light track and let us transport around Denmark's second largest city.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102609	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102612	I would like the Minister to explain a little about the process that went off the rails, if I may say so, in Aarhus. At that time the Ministry of Transport was involved in some way, so I would like to hear what really went wrong and what experience has been gathered from that background. It is, of course, quite important, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, that we actually collect the experience, including the negative experience, of such projects, so that other light rail projects that roll over the country at the moment can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102653	Thank you for that question. It is not least thanks to Enhedslisten's contribution to the policy being pursued in Denmark that we have succeeded in getting light lanes in our large cities. I fully agree with the questioner on this. This is really good, and we are physically really getting some clues out that will be really good for our big cities that are getting light lanes. In concrete terms, it simply happened that the bids to build the light track turned out to be far, far more expensive than expected, and that was the most important thing. You could also put it in another way: the project was underfunded from the outset. After all, it is absolutely essential that we ensure that this under-financing does not just continue when we talk about light rail in Odense, light rail in Aalborg and the light rail that is also being built in the Copenhagen area. One of the reasons is that our state principles of construction budgeting were not present in Aarhus. They will be now, both in Odense and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102759	Sir. Henning Hylllested. That's it? Then I say thank you to the Minister for Transport. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102816	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127102829	After Aarhus Letbane has, hopefully, now settled in place, the trip has come to Odense. With the bill here, we are implementing the part of the Finance Act from this year when a state subsidy of well over 1 billion will be granted. kr. for the establishment of an easy track in Odense. The municipality of Odense contributes an additional 1.8 billion. kr. and the region with DKK 100 million. Overall, it is 3 billion. kr. So it will be not only in Aalborg and in Copenhagen and in Aarhus, but also in Odense that we will now have an easy track established. Many of us are really happy about that, not least in the Funen area. For Odense it will mean a lot to get an easy track. It's gonna tie the city together. With the establishment of the new hospital, the extension of the university and a great many other things happening in the odense region, the track will play a central role in transporting a great many people from one part of the city to the other and into the city centre. It will be a total facility of no less than 14.4 km, so it will mean a lot. Not least for the south-eastern part of the city, it will play a central role. No less than 60,000 people will get their daily walk around the university, the hospital and the shopping opportunities in that part of the city, so it will play a very, very important role. The left can warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103009	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Rasmus Prehn as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103030	It is quite tempting to say that it is running smoothly for the Folketing today with the various light rail projects that we are undertaking. In fact, as Mrs Lars Christian Lilleholt also mentioned, one becomes incredibly excited and happy that there is so much work to be done in strengthening public transport. That is simply the way forward. This is the way to ensure that there is less pollution, fewer climate challenges and less urban congestion. It is therefore gratifying that with this proposal we are also launching a project, this time in Odense. It is a project which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned is going to bind the city much better together. You can get off at the train station centre, you can drive to the university, the new university hospital, you can drive around to the Rosengård Centre, there is also a connection in connection with the Svendborg railway, so if you come from the south, you can also get off and drive around Odense. It is in every possible way a step in the right direction to strengthen public transport. We have seen abroad how light lanes can help lift and develop cities. If you go to Italian Florence or French Lyons, you can see how light rails help not only to ensure better opportunities for passengers, but also to create jobs, create investment and create innovation. The job situation is not just in the construction phase, where I am very pleased that the municipality of Odense has also announced that it will, of course, ensure that it is done on proper conditions. It is Danish pay and working conditions that apply. Then some say that it is not just jobs for some more from Eastern Europe. The answer is that it may well be, but at least it is on Danish pay and working conditions, and you also make sure that there are apprenticeships and internships in connection with doing these things. So it creates jobs during the construction phase, but it also creates jobs when the city grows at all. The City of Odense, led by Mayor Anker Boye, deserves praise and recognition for the urban planning efforts they have made. It is true that Odense has long been on the map in terms of urban planning, but unfortunately to some extent on the negative side with Thomas B. Thriges Gade, which was established in the 1960s, and which has been controversial ever since, because it was a four-track road that went right through the city centre, close to Hans Christian Andersen's childhood home. This is something that has been discussed ever since. The fact that you change that path and get easy track instead helps to gather the city and give a city-wide boost. I would also like to commend the City of Odense for the way it has chosen to involve the citizens with the info store and other things. It's worth a recommendation. If you are in Odense, stop by this info store where there are exciting maps, info screens you can see aerial photos from before Thomas B. Thriges Gade was built, and now also how the city will look healthier, more environmentally friendly and more coherent. So with this proposal, we're starting a positive development. We secure plant law and company law, so it is in place, and in all possible ways it is a good day for Odense, for the whole of Funen and for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103355	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103406	There is no doubt that trams are something that is currently in place. We can, of course, look at all the local rapporteurs who would like to take the floor today during the discussion of this proposal. It is a good thing to see that it is at least so strongly supported by local authorities as well. I think Odense Letbane, like Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned the fact that it is a good and well thought out project because it is thought into the whole of urban planning. You've been thinking about driving out and picking up some people off the highway, you've thought about all the big things like the new super hospital, etc. etc. Svendborgbanen has also been thought into, as others have also mentioned, so it is a good and coherent project. It is rare for me to commend a Social Democrat, but I would also like to take this opportunity to praise the Mayor of Odense, Anker Boye, for this project and, above all, for the fact that he has managed to get the government to put it on the Finance Act so that we do not have to use other means of transport for it. After all, it frees some money for other good projects, so I would like to praise that too. But otherwise I would just like to congratulate Odense on this project and hope that in Odense at least experience can be used from other similar projects that we have discussed earlier today, so this will run according to the outlined plan and within the outlined economy. So congratulations to Odense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103527	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Camilla Her as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103535	Thank you. I am here today to replace our usual transport rapporteur and, as chairman of the group, I was able to take his place. And it is a great pleasure for me to be able to be the one who speaks for us about this bill, which is about the establishment of Odense Letbane. Getting an easy path to Odense has been a matter for the Radical Left in Odense and on Funen for a long, long time, and by last year's financial agreement it was possible to allocate 1.1 billion. kr. from the state to the project, which overall will cost 2.4 billion. kr. After all, the light rail is expected to become a very important factor for the new Odense, which is under construction. The light rail is expected to transfer a number of passengers from passenger cars to the more environmentally friendly light rail system that will run on electricity. Therefore, one can avoid the CO2 A light runway in Odense will improve mobility and create coherence between the many new planned urban development projects. On the long stretch of the light track, 26 stations will be established where a stop at the new university hospital will allow patients, employees and other visitors to drive directly into the hospital, which is expected to be completed by 2020-2022. The light track will also serve Odense Station Center, the Rosengård Centre, which is a very large area in Odense, and the University of Southern Denmark, where we naturally have travellers back and forth every day. In fact, the expectation is that when the plant is in operation there will be 35,600 passengers every day who will use Odense Letbane. Since the light rail will be on existing roads, but, of course, on its own track, it will be independent of the rest of the traffic. This ensures that the light track comes forward quickly and has high reliability, and it is of course at the heart of the fact that light rail is actually a really, really good idea, not just for those who are in favour of green transport, which we support, but indeed also for those who want to ensure accessibility and a slippery traffic. We believe that establishing an easy path in Odense and, for that matter, elsewhere is a step in the right direction in terms of developing environmentally friendly transport and ensuring accessibility at a time when congestion is actually a very big problem in our larger cities. With Odense Letbane there will be a basis for both residents inside and outside Odense and those who work and travel to and from the city to get to institutions, to cultural offers, to jobs, to homes and to the hospital and home again, to have a better chance of doing so. The light rail network will also connect to important traffic hubs, both local, regional and national. The Radical Left can therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103844	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Anne Baastrup as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127103853	It's nice to have so many colleagues from Odense. We have been arguing in the SF since the mid-1990s for light rail. Those of the Members of Parliament who sat in the Folketing at that time will probably remember Mrs Margrethe Auken's way of arguing for it at that time, and there was no wind. But there is now. Now all parties are behind the establishment of an easy track in Ring 3 in Aalborg and Odense and in Aarhus, which is why it is a good day today that we can now start the completion of the process in Aarhus and Odense. I've been following the efforts of the City of Odense over the past few years at close range. They have been very careful, on the one hand, to design their city in such a way that it is future-proof, that the city's centre can be exploited by its citizens, and, on the other hand, to ensure that the city's surroundings with SDU and the university hospital, the super hospital, are actually bound together so that there is an opportunity to get around the city easily and conveniently, and the city, with the change of the inner city, has a very attractive way of developing. I welcome this general support for the light rail in Odense and, of course, we warmly support the SF that the proposal is being implemented quickly, so that we can get to the bottom of the mud.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104034	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104047	Odense Municipality deserves great praise and appreciation for their efforts to get an easy path to the city. Not only has the work been characterised by rapid progress, but what is most important is that the light rail is part of a major urban development project, extensive traffic rehabilitation, the construction of new institutions and neighbourhoods, and the construction of parks and travel facilities, thus making the light railroad even more attractive to the commuters. In addition, the effort is being made to reduce the noise and vibration nuisance of the light track. If the light rail is then supplied with electricity from renewable energy, it can hardly be better seen by Enhedslisten. We are pleased that we got easy track in Odense on the Finance Act agenda last year in connection with the Finance Act 2014 before Enhedslistens exit from the Finance Act negotiations. One reservation: the budget conceals the point that is not easy to make. Thus, the draft law states that if the light rail system is increased beyond the agreed reserves, the parties agree to adapt the project to what is the money for. Yes, it may be very natural, but in practice this means that either the proposed 26 stops will not be made on the route, or it will be shortened at the train station so that the Tarup stage will not be realized. This would be a real shame, partly because the light track is planned in a whole, partly because the Tarupetapen then risks either not being built or if it does, then it would be significantly more expensive to build when the construction site has to be re-established. The cheapest thing in the long term is actually to take it all at once. The short-term saving can easily be the most expensive, but we must hope that it does not happen. Should that happen, then we must start again with rescue operations a la Aarhus Letbane. We will not shy away from that. The light rail line in Odense is different from the Århusian one by the fact that there are no plans for further extension on several lines here at least not for the time being. Therefore, it will not have the same negative consequences for the project that the role of the State is limited to providing a • Let's call it an entrepreneurial benefit of approx. 1.1 billion kr. Probably a plus at Odense Letbane is that it is largely built in its own tracé, regardless of the other traffic, and it contributes to a smooth and stable average speed and greater opportunities to keep the road map. On top of that, the light field will be given priority at lightlights, which shows that Odense will not operate with an equal turnaround, as is the case in Bill L 30, the law on amending the traffic law, which we are currently dealing with. There is, of course, the idea that the light rail network will not be given priority in traffic and that the light rail network will not hold back, even if you can see and hear the light rail line approaching. So when Odense can, why can't the Ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Justice, in relation to traffic law? Odense also goes its own way when the light rail operator himself trains the light rail operators and is based on the Railway Act. And that is something quite different from the very modest demand made in L 30, where it is only enough to have a normal driving licence for a car. The Enhedslisten welcomes this proposal, to which we are voting in favour, and we hope that the initiatives taken by Odense will rub off on the other light rail projects. In this context, we should also recommend that the experience is collected in an experience bank I mentioned earlier in connection with Aarhus Letbane so that other cities, regions and light rail projects can draw on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104446	The Liberal Alliance can support this bill, which combines construction and company formation around the light rail line in Odense. I myself, together with the Committee on Transport, have been on inspection in Odense, where we were made aware of the prospects which we consider important and important. I think that in many areas the municipality has acted very professionally in this matter. A very significant part of the municipality will benefit from the track's location and tracé placement or what such a thing is called "•" and the 26 stations, including not least business, residential areas, university, hospital etc., which have been mentioned by several people. We note with satisfaction that Odense Municipality will be solely responsible for the operation and that the state is without responsibility, as is the case in Århus. Finally, we think it is particularly positive that a link should be established with the E 20 motorway so that all major traffic routes are linked together. So we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104606	Thank you, sir. President. But the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal here. The largest cities in Denmark are on their way to getting their own easy track. This also applies to Odense, and I can hear from some of the speakers that everyone wants to take ownership of it. I remember the former Conservative mayor, our own Jan Boye, who was an enthusiastic advocate of the light track. He did everything he could to create the conviction of the people at Christiansborg. I recall and welcome the fact that it is now becoming a reality that Odense will have business areas, culture, inner city and educational facilities tied together with a more than 14 km. long track in a single track. The State contributes 1.1 billion. kr., and the Region of Southern Denmark contributes 100 million. kr., and then it will now be Odense Municipality that stands for the rest, for from now on ownership will be transferred to Odense Municipality in the form of the company Odense Letbane. I think this is a very good thing and there is no doubt that light rail will be a huge advantage for Odense on the basis of the very same arguments that have been mentioned, namely that traffic in the inner city will be facilitated so that it will be easier to get around for work, tourism and business purposes and contexts. So it is a really good investment that we look forward to being built as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104727	Thank you, too, to the Conservative rapporteur. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127104742	Thank you for that and thank you for your contributions to this debate. A moment ago, we were all Eastern Jutlanders... now we're all Funen residents here in the Assembly Hall. This is because these are some very good projects that we are discussing today. This cannot be done without public finances being managed, and not without a large majority ready to work, but also without local forces, regional forces ready to create the space needed to develop our country in every corner. So now it's the middle of the country we're talking about, Odense. The draft law here is therefore an act of, as has already been mentioned earlier today, the Finance Act for the current year, when it was decided to dispose of EUR 1.1 billion from the State. kr. to the State grant for the establishment of an easy track in Odense. I myself had the pleasure of following up this agreement this summer to travel to Odense and conclude an agreement of principle with the Mayor of Odense, Anker Boye, and the Region of Southern Denmark on behalf of the State for the construction of the light rail. I was in the visitors' centre to see how the plans are for the whole area, and one can only be deeply, deeply impressed by the transformation and development that Odense is facing, and here the light track plays a key role. So it is good that we have got this agreement in place and now we are following up on the concrete legislative proposals. The principle agreement, which has now been signed, lays down the economy for the easy path and the distribution of financial responsibility between the three parties. The principle agreement has been the starting point for the legislative proposal we are debating today. The bill on Odense Letbane lays down the framework for the future light rail company and also lays down the framework for the light rail system itself and for the economy. Over in Odense, the light rail company is a so-called partner company. The model has been chosen for Odense Municipality to have the same terms as the other light rail companies in Denmark. We have just had another bill that deals with the project in Aarhus, where you have a partnership model in play. We have the same partnership model in Ring 3 around Copenhagen. It is not an option in Odense because a partnership must consist of at least two parties, and it is therefore only Odense Municipality that participates in the company itself here. However, it is quite explicit from the bill that the Municipality of Odense is liable for debts and other liabilities in Odense Letbane, and it has been necessary to introduce such a provision to ensure that the Municipality of Odense has the ultimate financial responsibility for the construction and operation of Odense Letbane. But from the state side we are giving the subsidy of just over 1.1 billion. kr., which came home during the finance negotiations before Christmas last year. I believe that this amount has also been included by several transport rapporteurs, including 30 per cent. correction reserve. Well, there's air in the budget. That makes sense. In addition, the municipality of Odense deposits a little more, i.e. 1,118 million. kr., i.e. 1,118 billion. kr. kr. The grant model means that the state does not have the task of participating in the light rail company, but the state will instead conclude an administrative agreement with the future company on state supervision, i.e. exactly the same model as in Aarhus, now that the state is leaving the light rail company in Aarhus. The bill lays down the lines for Odense Letbane, which includes: will serve Odense Station Centre, Rosengård Center, University of Southern Denmark and New Odense University Hospital and Hjallese Station. The light rail will thus link housing, industry, education, research and culture. If it turns out that the plant is being increased in addition to the agreed correction reserves, which are already built-in, then the route for Odense Letbane can be shortened and the number of stations can be adjusted in agreement with the three parties contributing to the light track: it is Odense, it is the state and it is the Region of Southern Denmark. The draft law allows the light rail company to make use of the provisions necessary to ensure that an installation is not subject to price increases, e.g.: the abolition of prohibitions and building lines. The draft law also provides the light rail company with the necessary means for carrying out various studies, such as: soil studies, as well as the legal basis for expropriating the land and properties necessary for the construction of the light track, including the legal basis for imposing properties along the light track servitutter, e.g. on the use of electricity. Odense Letbane will not be ready for 2017, as it will be in Aarhus, but by 2020 it will be ready, and I think that will be a good idea to say when you've seen the models, drawings, visualization films and physical models • fantastically active for Odense city and all of Funen and all of Denmark, of course, that we get green, efficient and fast transport in the middle of Odense. So thank you for your support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105326	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105331	I can't feed on it. I agree with the very positive comments made by all the rapporteurs and now also by the Minister. I think that is very good. Now it is not L 30 that we are dealing with here; I am quite clear about that, but exactly when you are so positive about Odense Letbane, will you also be inspired by Odense Letbane's beating that the light track must have the right to drive? That is not what was proposed in L 30. And when I ask here and ask the Minister for Transport, it is because it is very much the Road Directorate that has been pressing for an equal duty, like that, between light rail and other traffic and other road users. It's not good for the light field. If it is to fulfil its purpose in full, it must have the right to drive; then it must be able to come forward, and then the others must give way and hold back, especially when you can see that the light track is on its way. So I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that whole issue. We have it in L 30 and we have tabled amendments to this. But I ask precisely because it is the Road Directorate who is pushing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105442	In other words, the whole aim is to make things more visible, and it is a huge traffic machine that we are now getting in the country's large cities with such an easy path. Now it's Odense we're talking about here, and there you simply shut down through traffic on Thomas B. Thriges Gade, there's a huge four-track road at least as far as I can remember from when I was there recently through Odense. So you shut down traffic. Underneath it you can then get some large underground parking facilities, and above it there will be industry, education, cultural life... all served with an easy track without any other traffic above. It is only part of the light rail trace, but it is of course central, through the centre of Odense, we are talking about here, so there are no cars to delay. And then I assume that you can find a local way to create some light-signalling devices and other things to ensure that you do not have delays in the road map, because there is a car that does not just know how it should be connected there. It is new in Denmark with light rails, but I am convinced that it must be possible to plan its way out of it. At least in other parts of Europe we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105548	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105550	I do not think the Minister is quite answerable to what I am asking. I can also refer to the consultation answer given by the Municipality of Odense to L 30, together with some of the other light rail towns and municipalities, where it is precisely said that it is of no use that light rail does not have the right to drive. And with regard to Odense Letbane, it is the case that it runs in its own tracè far, by far most of the way, but that is the case, for example. not in Aarhus, and that will cause problems along the way. First of all, this will cause problems for the light rail, but there is also a traffical, traffical uncertainty about it, clearly. But I do not understand why the Ministry, because the Road Directorate is under the authority of the Ministry, is putting pressure on this, because I understand that the Road Directorate is doing so, because they have drivers and roads as their first priority, but it is of no use in terms of public transport and light rail, I would say to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105650	I think that this debate is clearly relevant, but I wonder if there is also a practical answer to the questions that are now being raised. I guess we can assume there is. And with regard to the light lanes we are now building in Denmark, far, by far most kilometers I am going to stand by maybe just take care of what I say, but at least it is about many kilometers • being in my own trace, but they will also interfere with the ordinary traffic. Well, that's, you might say, much more expensive. When you have a subway, it's underground, and then it just blows off without anything else, but it's a little more complicated when we're above. And it's all about finding some purely practical solutions where we make sure there's something more comprehensible, because that's the whole point of this investment and the other investments in light rails.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105733	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105755	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127105816	Last year there was a 150th anniversary in London, celebrating the subway, which they call The Tube. London's subway is made up of no less than 270 stations, and there are 402 km of track. When you visit other well-functioning cities such as Paris, New York, Tokyo and Moscow, they are all characterised by having an underground railway • big city and subway connected and therefore it is good that Copenhagen has come along and that we have also got our metro. When you look at the metro map for the stations in London or New York and compare it to the metro map for Copenhagen, it is hard not to draw a little bit on the smile tape, because where the other metro maps show a jumble of colors and lines all around, the metro map for Copenhagen consists of a line that at some point divides itself into two; it looks like this stick used in Anders Duck magazines to see if there was water in the underground. It's relatively modest what we have of the metro yet but we're on our way. It's getting more and more and we're getting the Metrocity ring. With the bill that we have today, we will have even more metro, and we in the Left are very happy about that, not least for a Leftman elected in Copenhagen, it is a good day. In 150 years' time, not many people will remember us in this Chamber, and those who have been the leaders of the UN General Assembly may even be forgotten, but when it comes to some of the laws we adopt, we can be fortunate enough that the results will also be there. We will be forgotten, but the metro will still be there and will facilitate the everyday life of thousands of Copenhageners and tourists. Bogotás mayor, Gustavo Petro, has made a tweet in which he writes that a developed country is not characterized by the poor having cars; a developed country is characterized by the rich using public transport. I think that is a very good quote. The metro is just an attractive offer, which means that you don't have to take your car, but that you have a high-class traffic system that runs all the time, where you don't have to look in a road map, and where you can easily and conveniently come from A to B. So we are happy that we are now adopting a law that makes it possible to expand the metro from the Metrocity ring to the North Harbour and to the South Harbour, and the payment for the many metro stations will be shared between the City of Copenhagen and the State. The state's way of financing it can be described according to temperament as a mid-term between matador money and a ticket, because what we do is that we give the City of Copenhagen an increased stake in the company City & Harbour I/S, where, if we are to be honest, we cannot exactly assess the value it will have in 50 years. But it should be strange if it will not have a great value, and it may even turn out to be a really valuable ticket for the City of Copenhagen. At the same time, it is possible that when the metro arrives at Ny Ellebjerg, it can be like an underground station, which makes the metro easier and cheaper to continue all the way up to Frederiksberg and beyond that road to Bispebjerg, which will also be very important. So it's a good day today. We are relatively sure that the law will be passed, because it is based on an agreement with a majority of parties behind it, but nevertheless it is a good and an important law that we look forward to seeing the results of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127110213	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127110233	I remember one day, I think about a year ago, when the Mayor of Copenhagen, Frank Jensen, pulled me aside. He wanted to talk to me about something he called a branch chamber. I got a little uncomfortable and thought that I wasn't sure I wanted to know more about what that was, but what turned out... we need to get the concentration back. What turned out was that it was simply the whole condition for developing... the subway to the South Harbour. It turned out at the time to be a bit of a challenge... now you just have to stop. I'm gonna need a little quiet in the hall. It was a bit of a challenge because it was hard to find this money. I remember taking it up with the then Transport Minister, Pia Olsen Dyhr, from SF, who didn't think this was such a solution, but we started work. Then it happened that in the meantime we had a new Minister for Transport, Mr. Magnus Heunicke, sitting here. And what then happened was that you actually got together fairly quickly with the City of Copenhagen and got the agreement of principle that is the basis for this proposal, namely a proposal that is about allowing the City of Copenhagen to take over a larger share of the stake in what is called City & Harbour. And by doing so, the City of Copenhagen has in turn undertaken to extend the links around the North Harbour, but also simply to secure the branch chamber I was talking about before, but also that there will then be access to the subway to the South Harbour and to Ny Ellebjerg, which will become a new traffic hub. What is a little interesting about Ny Ellebjerg Station is that we know that it is extremely difficult to expand capacity more around Central Station. So the fact that Ny Ellebjerg in South Harbour now has access to both metro and S-trains, but also to regional and intercity trains is a huge boost for traffic in the metropolitan area. It's gonna relieve Central Station. This will ensure much better opportunities for commuters and for public transport users in the City of Copenhagen. So it is a huge step in the right direction. I would like to add my voice to those very fine words, as rapporteur for the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen, mentioned where he quoted Bogotá's very visionary mayor as saying that a developed country should not be measured by the poor having a car, but by the rich driving collectively. It's an incredibly strong vision, and I think it's great that with this proposal we bring Copenhagen even closer to this stage of development where we get the level of public transport that we deserve. I'm sorry about the little remark that made some moro. I didn't mean to pull the seriousness out of this very important proposal. Conversely, it is so much a joyous day that you are also allowed to laugh and giggle a little, because this is positive and is moving Denmark in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127110629	I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur for breaking loose. Sir. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127110641	Thank you. I'll think carefully if I'm going to meet Frank Jensen one day and he's going to pull me aside I can understand. But in addition to that, this proposal, like everything we have discussed today, is actually very positive. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned this fairly clear drawing we have of the Danish metrocity system, compared to the one in London, and I can agree with him completely. Now it is gratifying that we are working on a metrocity ring, you can see that everywhere in Copenhagen, and with this maneuver we agreed to find the funding that was needed to make this branch chamber. Since we are still in the ground, it is common sense to make the branch chamber in relation to future lines around a South Harbour Metro. So it is quite good that we could find the state funds to be contributed, the 263 million. kr. The exercise itself in relation to the City & Harbour, where the State deposits something similar to 51⁄2 billion. kr. But I guess it's a little like sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned some kind of matador money. We have discussed the uncertainty of these major construction projects a little earlier today in connection with other proposals. But it hangs City & Harbour and the City of Copenhagen looked forward. The State's share has been written down to 5%, and so we have contributed to the funding. Having said that, there may be uncertainty about the project, it is a good and visionary project, and hopefully something that we can later develop into a real ring road east of Copenhagen. So this is all a good and visionary project for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127110844	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127110901	Like previous speakers, I can say that we in the Radical Left are also very pleased today to be able to say yes to the bill to take the subway through the South Harbour to Ny Ellebjerg Station. After all, the metro is a success story, and there is no doubt that we feel this way about the city ring that is currently being built, that it cannot be completed quickly enough. My own children said at one point: how nice it is that we are going to live so close to a metro station. Then they realized that they probably left home before it was finished. But that shouldn't stop them from using it and coming to see me. But in the Radical Left we see a huge potential in turning Ny Ellebjerg into a new hub for public transport in Denmark and, above all, in Greater Copenhagen. We have set aside money in Togfonden DK to expand Ny Ellebjerg Station, which is now connected to the entire metro system and is already a S-train station. New Ellebjerg becomes the place where the trains from Funen and Jutland and not least the rest of Zealand can stop and people can travel by metro or S-train. Today the Central Station is so crowded that a new hub is needed, and here the extension of the subway to Ny Ellebjerg is something that will tie the public transport together and move people around in a sustainable way. A subway in the South Harbour also helps to develop an area of Copenhagen that needs it so much. The Radical Left is very pleased to be able to support it too. The bill here makes it possible to create two additional stations on the branching of the metro, which now we shall not talk any more about branching • going to Nordhavn, which is also an important development area in Copenhagen. And, of course, we support that too. The bill also makes it possible to create a Nordhavn tunnel so that trucks from Nordhavn and the many business activities do not have to enter the city. The money comes from the development company By & Havn I/S, where the state transfers most of its ownership interest to the City of Copenhagen. The Radical Left is happy to support the proposal. It can only go too slowly, and we look forward to it becoming a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111140	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Anne Baastrup as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111147	It must be easy to be Minister of Transport today, it is pure wind. Well, I drove the metro here the other day all the way to Kastrup. It's a great experience, it goes lightning fast, and that despite getting off in Ørestad and then jumping on again. So it's actually a really, really good arrangement with a metro. I said that the first time I became a transport rapporteur three or four years ago, and there were many who approached me carefully afterwards and asked if I was quite sure what I had said. But I was, and I'm gonna hold on to that. I think the metro is a huge boost for the Copenhagen community and a huge boost for the people who live around and who can quickly enter the city. That's why I think we should be proud that we now found some money. I don't know if it's matador money or what it is, but I have great confidence myself that when the government makes a bid on how it's financed, it keeps water. I think we have seen several times that it is actually possible to sell some land and build and then make money on it. So I'm betting that the funding is 100 percent waterproof and that in 5, 6, 7 years we can take the train to Nordhavn. Then support from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111313	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111322	As you know, the construction of the metro has been characterised by poor planning, under-budgeting, social dumping in terms of wretched pay and working conditions, cheating on taxes and VAT, noise and other nuisances for neighbours, poor communication with the very same neighbours, the sin register is a long way off. And it can be said that if only this bill could break the vicious circle, then we would very much welcome it from the Enhedslisten side. The proposal envisages a further extension if the City of Copenhagen considers that the Nordhavnsmetro has additional stations as well as the establishment of a metro to the South Harbour. And maybe there's a little hope here, because now it's the City and City & Port of Copenhagen that's taking over. The state minimizes its influence in City & Port to 5%, and the City of Copenhagen has shown a willingness to address social dumping at the construction sites where the municipality is the developer. It would be nice and there must be a clear call from this that this should happen if conditions at last get under control in the construction of the metro, when it comes to further development. So it is really positive if at least it comes out of it. In our opinion, the draft law contains some ambiguity. It is therefore not clear whether a full EIA statement of the two metro projects will be made. The Enhedslisten will encourage this so that we can get a picture of the actual reduction in car traffic and whether the metro has the high environmental impact, as it is claimed. The draft law assumes that the State will not contribute further to the development of the metro. It is then left to the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg and City & Harbour. There are a number of proposals for further expansion, Ny Ellebjerg v. Valby, Frederiksberg, Bispebjerg, Vanløse, Rødovre and Brøndby. From this point of view, however, a call must be made to look towards the development of a coherent network of light rail networks in the capital region, such as: The Capital Region has played on the field and has advocated, and which we in the conciliation circle for better and cheaper public transport have set aside money for a major analysis of. Railways have the obvious advantage that they are much cheaper to set up than metro and that they very directly displace cars from the road area. The car at the back, as it was called in the election campaign. The Nordhavnstunnel has a number of traffic advantages, such as the tunnel providing more access and exit options to the new urban development area in Nordhavn, and that it will divert heavy traffic from the Voldgade line to the motorways bypassing Copenhagen, which is very much needed, and also that it will relieve the crossing at Sundhøgsgade. But the Nordhavn tunnel is probably only relevant to the traffic going north. What about the car traffic going south? Should it continue to be led on the Voldgaderne? And here the answer will be from a large number of strong players in this area: no, it should not, and that is why the Nordhavn tunnel must be continued in a real port tunnel, and it cannot go fast enough. It is also clear from a number of consultation answers that the Nordhavn tunnel is considered to be the first stage of the port tunnel, which is not contradicted by the Mayor's Party at Copenhagen City Hall, rather the opposite. The Enhedslisten, both in Copenhagen and in the Danish Parliament, opposes the establishment of a port tunnel, but the Enhedslisten in Copenhagen does not believe that the Nordhavnstunnelne has to be the first stage of the port tunnel, and it is actually true. The Enhedslisten in Copenhagen is quite enthusiastic about the agreement reached between the State, the Transport Minister and the City of Copenhagen about the municipality's acquisition of City & Port, or largely the acquisition of City & Port, which leads to the establishment of the South Harbour Metro, the extension of the Nordhavnsmetroen at a later stage, the establishment of a Nordhavnstunnel, and the acquisition by the City of Copenhagen of most of the State's shareholding in By & Harbour. I myself am a little more sceptical on behalf of the parliamentary group, as it will be, but we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111735	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111744	It is then the third draft law on major infrastructure projects in our main cities that is being discussed here in the Danish Parliament today. We basically believe that it is a great advantage for the growth of larger urban communities to be able to get the authorities to play together and find a division of roles which can also drive the process of such projects forward. For us there is no doubt that the planned urban development and port activities in the North Harbour will be greatly strengthened by the proposed tunnel construction. In particular, the availability of heavy traffic to the container port and the cruise terminal is likely to be greatly improved. In this connection, we have noted that the City of Copenhagen actually expects to create an urban development of no less than 2 million floor meters. One is, of course, plans, another is the realization of an economic area, but, as I said, we very much believe that improved mobility and accessibility can in themselves help to promote the growth of a district. I shall not repeat much of what has already been said, but simply state that we agree with this proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111902	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127111910	Thank you, sir. President. In the Conservative People's Party we think it is excellent that we have a metro in Copenhagen, in the same way as you have in virtually all other cities. It is well-functioning and we think it is positive that it is now being extended. We would like to see it extended as much as possible, because it removes traffic from the roads, and we know that there is already a great deal of congestion in Copenhagen, with which all major cities are troublesome. So the more efficient public transport we have, the more space there is on the roads for those who need and depend on being able to travel on the road network. So we fully support that. This also applies, of course, to the branch of Cityringen, which is now going to go to the South Harbour and from there perhaps even further. We also support the design of the Nordhavnstunnel and, of course, we also support the reduction of the State's stake in the development company By & Harbour I/S. So overall, this is a really good day for Copenhagen and, as a matter of fact, for everyone else, because many come here. This will in time make it a little easier to get back and forth in Copenhagen, so overall we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112018	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112028	Thank you. And thank you for the good reception of this bill. After all, it was a project which had a certain speed in the spring and early summer, because it was about timing in relation to some crucial elements that had to be met: the branch chamber had to be installed while the metrocity ring had to be made, and therefore there were political negotiations between different conciliation circles. There were of course also discussions and an in-depth collaboration with the City of Copenhagen and other ministries, and that we can stand here today and we all have the support of everyone, I think evidence that we have managed to get through with this project that is really good. I myself lived out in the South Harbour many years ago and have also been out there several times in connection with this project. And if you look at Amager, you can see what coming a metro gives to a district in terms of development and settlement and other. This is exactly the kind of urban development that this subway to the South Harbor can help push. Not long ago I took the bike and drove from Central Station past the Fisketorvet to Mozart's Square in the South Harbour and on to Ny Ellebjerg Station. It took about half an hour above ground, and you can do that in the next few years, but when we're done drilling all the way through, you can choose to jump on the underground subway and move quickly back and forth to a large part of our capital. So a metro connection that runs around the clock with high frequency will of course have a cannon positive influence on urban development in the South Harbour, and they really need it. In accordance with the principle agreement, the State contributes to the financing of the South Harbour branch by transferring 40% to the State. of its shareholding in the development company City & Port I/S. This means that the state's shareholding in today 45 per cent. with the bill being reduced to 5% and the municipality of Copenhagen's shareholding increased from today 55 per cent. 95 per cent. In addition, the bill provides the basis for the Vejdirektoratet to design a Nordhavnstunnel. The Nordhavnstunnel will be an extension of Nordhavnsvej, which is currently being built by the City of Copenhagen. The Nordhavn tunnel will clearly create better and more direct access conditions for urban development areas in the outer and inner North Harbour, and it will also improve accessibility to the main state road network for heavy traffic to and from the container port and cruise terminal. Now we have talked about the South Harbour, but in relation to the future development of the North Harbour, the bill also opens the way for further development of the metro network in the North Harbour. The proposal therefore provides an opportunity for the extension of Cityring with branching to the North Harbour to include additional stations than those we know today, which have been adopted and are in the process of being created, namely Nordhavn Station and Orientkaj. We have already passed that law. It can therefore be extended further, and with the provision it is up to the City of Copenhagen to decide that additional stations can be set up if the Municipality of Frederiksberg and the State agree. Finally, the draft law provides for the development company City & Harbour I/S to contribute to the branching from Cityringen to the South Harbour and to the branching chamber in connection with the extension of the branching from Cityringen to the North Harbour and to the Nordhavn Tunnel, as well as the connection facilities. We started in Østjylland, then we came to Odense, and now we've ended up in Copenhagen, and all in all you have to say: Canongood projects, and how good it is to see as transport minister that despite the fact that I have had to fight my way through different conciliation circles and collaboration with various local parties, there is agreement in the Danish Parliament to back up this really important step for public transport and for our big cities' opportunities to continue development in a green direction with a focus on accessibility. So thank you for that support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112507	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112521	The debate is open. Sir. Mads Rørvig as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112539	Thank you, and congratulations. The draft law we are debating today has been tabled with the aim of obtaining the consent of the Danish Parliament for the government to accede to an agreement on the amendment of the 1996 Danish-Fieroslav Protocol on the double taxation convention on pensions. The Agreement is signed by: 23 October of this year and makes it possible to tax pensions in the part of the country from which they are paid if deductions have been made on payments or if the employer's contribution has not been taxed at the time of payment. It should be noted, however, that the draft law does not cover social pensions and other forms of social security benefits such as retirement pensions, etc. Following a change in Faroese tax legislation, it is now the case that pension benefits are no longer deducted and, at the same time, tax on payments has been abolished. Therefore, it is at this stage that a Danish pension paid in the Faroe Islands is neither taxed in Denmark nor in the Faroe Islands. The bill must change this, and by amending the Nordic Double Taxation Agreement, pensions will be taxed in the future in the parts of the kingdom where they are paid, in the event that the recipient has been deducted from the part of the Kingdom where the pension has been paid or whose contributions paid by the employer have not been taxed in the same place. Thus, a balance is restored in the pension payment system so that symmetry is ensured, so that if a deduction has been obtained, it also results in taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112724	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Astrid Krag as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112733	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Left has actually made this very clear: the aim of the draft law here is to conclude an agreement between Denmark and the Faroe Islands to amend the Danish-Froorish Protocol to the Nordic Double Taxation Agreement of 23 September 1996 on the taxation of pensions. This means, in concrete terms, that pensions will be taxed by agreement only where the pension is paid if the person receiving the pension has been deducted from payments in that part of the kingdom or if contributions paid by an employer have not been taxed in that part of the kingdom. Social pensions and other social security benefits are not covered by the proposal here. After all, the agreement is perfectly in line with the long-standing Danish practice of so-called source state taxation of pensions in connection with double taxation agreements. And as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, it has been tabled in the natural extension of amended legislation in the Faroe Islands. The Socialists can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112831	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112838	This is a change to the Danish-Franco Protocol to the Nordic Double Taxation Agreement, a change which I think is quite positive, so we can of course support it in the Danish People's Party. Today it is the case that pensions are taxed in the country where the recipient is resident, but because the Faroe Islands have changed their legislation so that they no longer deduct payments to pension schemes, but also do not tax them when they are paid, it is true that we are in a situation where a Danish pension paid to a recipient in the Faroe Islands is neither taxed in Denmark nor in the Faroe Islands. This is the kind of situation that is called a double non-taxation situation, and that is not particularly appropriate. This new agreement will then change, and we think that is quite reasonable, so we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127112937	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I see no radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113000	The aim of the draft law is to amend the Danish-Franco Protocol on the taxation of pensions into the Nordic Double Taxation Agreement of 1996. As things stand now, there is a double non-taxation in the Faroe Islands, and of course we cannot accept that, and fortunately the national government of the Faroe Islands cannot accept that either. There is agreement between Denmark and the Faroe Islands to solve this problem. That is why we welcome the draft law in order to avoid double taxation or double taxation on the payment of pensions. The SF can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113034	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I see no rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113044	On behalf of the Liberal Alliance, I agree with what has already been said here from the platform and say that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113055	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any conservative rapporteur either. There is a long way to go between the rapporteurs. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113109	Yes, it is just before that there have been 100 m-runs for the Olympics, which have been phased out more slowly than this legal procedure. Thank you for the broad endorsement of the bill. After all, the content of the agreement is clear, and this is described in detail in the comments to the draft law. However, it is also clear that if there are further matters that some would like to clarify, I would of course be happy to answer any questions that might be raised during the committee's deliberations. I should just like to say in practice, for the sake of good order, that the Faroese side is informed that proposals have been put forward in the Latting for accession to the agreement and, according to the information provided, the proposal is expected to be adopted there by the beginning of December at the latest. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113150	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113202	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 2 December 2014. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has the floor as rapporteur for the authors of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113239	The fight against tax havens and tax speculation has been a long battle, and it is a battle that we will probably see continuing for many years to come. It is a battle that changing governments have taken up, but not least this government, also when the SF sat in the government. I am very proud of some of the measures that have been taken, and I very much welcome the initiative of the Minister for Tax and Industry and Growth in this area. The reason for this debate is, at least most recently, what has been called Lux Leaks, where a number of media around the world leaked these documents a month ago which show that Luxembourg is doing a very organized job of contributing to tax havens and tax speculation. And that is quite reasonable, we think, from the SF, has lifted the public debate on what we are doing with tax havens and tax speculation, not least when it comes to a country that stood in the hands of the European Community and that actively contributes to the deception of the other countries. It's as unsolidarous as it can be. After all, there is currently a study in the European Union by the Danish Commissioner Margrethe Vestager on whether there is distortion of competition and illegal State aid. But the discussion is wider than that. There is also a large grey area where we are discussing whether this is illegal or not illegal. There are a number of tax gaps which we agree to condemn, but where legality is either present or at least reasonably unclear. The best thing would be for the European Union to give impetus to some of the initiatives that were presented a year ago by the Commission, but which, among other things, were: Luxembourg has set its feet and where Luxembourg and other countries have not agreed to accept, for example, that there should be an increase in the number of Members of the European Parliament. A circumvention clause was introduced to enable improvements to be made by means of the parent and subsidiary directive and a large number of other initiatives to be put to good effect here. It is unacceptable that tax dollars that could be spent on health, on care for the elderly, on kindergartens and on a large number of other things in our welfare system should come out of the treasury. And I am very pleased to have seen that there is a broad consensus that we must put an end to this. It is multinational companies which benefit from an educated population in Denmark, from an infrastructure and from childcare, but which do not contribute to the community. We'd like to close some of those tax holes. SF has a number of proposals, the government also has some suggestions. I am very much looking forward to today's debate because I have seen that there is indeed broad support for doing something about it, both in Denmark and at EU level. So I look forward to taking the debate with me, among others. the tax minister, who has very kindly also entered into this discussion, and into the discussions we are going to have over the coming weeks and months. I also have a text that I may have to read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113604	We'll hide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113607	In conclusion, I would just like to say that there is extreme pressure from lobbyists and from large companies to circumvent this in order to ensure that neither the Member States nor the European Union are making the necessary legislation so that we can secure against this. The discussion is taking place in all the Member States of the European Union, and I think it is very positive that the recent Luxembourg rounds have aroused a public debate that, especially in a time of crisis, it is both immoral and wrong that we do not close the tax gaps that exist and that we do not have legislation to ensure that we do not do so. I look forward very much to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113652	Thank you to the rapporteur for the explanatory statement. The short comments come first to the rapporteur's round. Then it is the tax minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127113709	Thank you. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the authors of this question for raising this very topical and crucial issue. And let me make it quite clear straight away: tax havens and the fight against them are a priority for this government. The government has among other things: introduced a safeguard to counter the use of the Danish withholding tax rules on dividends through restructuring, such as: multinational companies are increasingly making use of them. In addition, rules have been introduced so that all companies are taxed in Denmark, regardless of the fact that the management's seat is moved abroad, and rules have been introduced to ensure that taxable companies in Denmark cannot be used to exploit other countries' tax laws. The government has also introduced open tax lists in which companies' tax information is published. By 6 November of this year, the government has presented an ambitious tax havens package designed to stem international tax evasion. The package includes three tracks. The first is an offensive action at international level; the second is greater openness about the ownership of companies; and the third is recommendations of good tax advice in relation to the cross-border. The game is based, among other things, on: On the recommendations of the Informal Task Force set up by the Government in 2013. On the basis of the recommendations of the Task Force, the Government will: create greater transparency by introducing a register of so-called real owners of companies and foundations. Similarly, a register of the real owners of limited companies must be established. The possibility of issuing bearer shares must be abolished. Tax is to be introduced on founders from income earned in trusts. SKAT must be given the opportunity to disregard a binding answer if the binding reply subsequently shows that the value of an asset taken out of the country is significantly higher than the tax base. And then the money laundering supervisory authority must be strengthened by more checks on companies and better opportunities for unannounced inspections. The Government will start discussions with the parties of the Folketing with a view to implementing the above mentioned initiatives in the tax havens package. It is, of course, my hope that all parties in the Folketing will be willing to implement the necessary legislation. When you look at what is happening outside Denmark, it is the government's clear view that if the revelations of the last few weeks about Luxembourg keep water, it is an expression of behaviour that is in no way acceptable. In the documents leaked to the press, there are indications that Luxembourg, in cooperation with an international audit house, has advised and concluded secret tax agreements with a number of multinational companies on very low taxation. The tax agreements seem to imply that multinational companies have minimized their tax payments by allowing profits from other EU countries to pass through Luxembourg to a worryingly low level of taxation. If this is true, the consequences are quite far-reaching. Indeed, the tax agreements imply that Luxembourg has potentially contributed to the erosion of the tax base of all other EU countries in which multinational companies operate. And it is precisely the erosion of the tax base, which is at the heart of the problem raised. This is about harmful tax competition and how we get rid of it. There is no doubt that harmful tax competition must be combated. Otherwise, Denmark and all other countries that refrain from concluding such secret agreements will be in a situation where financing a welfare society is becoming increasingly difficult. The government sees this as an international task to be solved internationally. The government works hard for this both in the EU and in the OECD. Both the EU and the OECD have adopted a so-called code of conduct which recommends countries to be open and transparent. The recommendations show, inter alia, that the income statement must be based on internationally recognised principles. It also states that special arrangements must be transparent and that it must be clear whether exceptions are made in administrative practice in an opaque manner. In other words, if the information is correct, it seems that Luxembourg is not complying with these rules. If the information contained in the leaked documents keeps water, there are companies that have escaped with a tax rate all the way down into promos of e.g. an interest payment from an EU country to Luxembourg. If the interest rate has come from a Danish company, I am sure that SKAT would have liked to have heard about it. In such a case, it may be appropriate to examine whether the interest payment actually flows through the Luxembourg company and on to the underlying owners, which may result in the payment being taxable. I should like to stress that Luxembourg has not spontaneously exchanged information with Denmark on this and has therefore failed to comply with the recommendations of the EU and OECD Code of Conduct. The government has no doubt that harmful tax competition is best dealt with in the right fora, that is, the EU and the OECD, and it is absolutely crucial that the pressure that has to be put on certain countries to correct should come from central international level. The government supports this, and the government will continue to work for it. I am pleased that the European Commission, with the new EU Competition Commissioner, agrees with this assessment. The Commission has already opened State aid cases against Luxembourg, but also against the Netherlands and Ireland, concerning tax agreements concluded with multinational companies. It is the government's view that this is the right place to deal with these matters, and the government supports it and, of course, follows matters closely. SKAT continuously focuses on the illegal use of tax havens and carries out a number of national action activities in this area. The effort must be directed at both people and companies. For a number of years foreign companies and capital funds have acquired ownership in several large Danish companies. SKAT claims that a number of Danish companies must withhold withholding tax on dividends and interest sent to their foreign owners, for example in Luxembourg. This is justified by the fact that the parent company abroad may not be in the EU or a customer country because dividends or interest are flowing through and on to the underlying owners, typically in tax havens. The fact that dividends and interest end up in tax havens means, in the view of the Ministry of Taxation, that the owners behind them have to pay tax because they are not protected by the EU directives or by the double taxation agreements. The status is that SKAT has settled cases of withholding tax on dividends and interest relating to 25 groups of companies. In these cases, the amount subject to withholding tax totals approx. 18 billion kr. The determined profit and interest source cases are pending either in the national tax law or in the courts. The proceedings before the courts have been suspended. The Ministry of Taxation and the companies concerned agree on a referral to the European Court of Justice in order to establish that the approach taken by the Ministry of Taxation is in line with EU directives. The directives allow the application of contractual or national rules of abuse. However, given the nature and complexity of the issues, it is to be expected that at the earliest a clarification will be available from the European Court of Justice at the end of 2016. The Ministry of Taxation, of course, follows matters closely in cooperation with the state's lawyer, and the SKAT's focus on this type of case is maintained. SKAT also stated that work was already under way on examining the leaked documents for Luxembourg. The G20 countries requested back in 2013 the OECD to draw up a so-called action plan, a comprehensive action plan, the so-called BEPS Action Plan. BEPS stands for Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. The aim of the action plan is to address the aggressive cross-border tax planning of multinationals and capital funds in particular. In September 2014, the first recommendations came and I am convinced that we will see great progress in this area in the future. This is, of course, a problem which actually arises from the fact that the different countries have set up their tax systems on the basis of a reality where people and cash flows are not but we are fortunately no longer there. Cross-border activity means increased growth, increased employment for all countries involved. However, this also means that international efforts are needed to strengthen coordination and interaction between the rules of the various countries so that the different tax systems are not exploited in an attempt to avoid paying taxes. For example, a group of companies in several countries can legitimately speculate that deductions can be obtained in a country for payments which are not taxed in a company in the recipient country, and this clearly gives rise to tax carousels with, if I may say so, free deduction. As such, nothing illegal has happened. The group has taken advantage of the differences in the tax systems of the two countries. BEPS acts among other things. to put an end to this type of exploitation by means of special safeguards. Denmark, as one of the first countries, has tried to address the differences in the tax systems of the countries with special protection rules in Danish legislation. But an internationally coordinated approach is to be expected to be more effective. Denmark has always been an active and committed player in tackling aggressive international tax planning. This is about ensuring that there is no speculation about exploiting the tax conditions of the various countries, which is to the detriment of all the communities affected by it. At the end of the day, it is helping to undermine the tax revenues that are so essential for maintaining a well-functioning welfare society. Over the next few years, the work that the G20 countries have asked the OECD to do must be completed. Denmark has actively participated in the preparation of the first published reports, and we will do so in the future. Denmark, as mentioned above, unlike the majority of OECD countries, has already legislated on the vast majority of the elements included in the recommendations. However, we must, of course, look at the recommendations and assess whether it is necessary to amend existing legislation. If that is the case, I also hope very much, of course, that all parties in the Folketing will be willing to implement such legislation. One of the tools that can help to strengthen the fight against tax havens is the introduction of a so-called circumvention clause into the legislation. The Circumvention clause means that the benefits resulting from a double taxation agreement or from the EU Directive on exemption from withholding tax on dividends to parent companies are eliminated in specific cases. There is a consensus in the OECD that countries cannot only have a circumvention clause being quite close to becoming a reality in the European Union. ECOFIN is expected to adopt the framework for a circumvention clause at their next meeting in December. The government is very positive about introducing an anti-circumvention clause and will put forward legislative proposals as soon as possible once agreement has been reached in ECOFIN. The Government has already submitted a draft law on the accession of a new Protocol to the Double Taxation Agreement between Denmark and Luxembourg, L 6, which was submitted on 8 October 2014. That is what this question is all about. The Protocol, signed on 9 July 2013, allows Denmark to tax pensions etc. paid from Denmark to a beneficiary in Luxembourg. The aim is to ensure that persons who have received tax credits for pension payments in Denmark are also taxed on payments, whether or not they have moved to Luxembourg. Double taxation agreements aim at avoiding double taxation of citizens and preventing tax evasion. Denmark regularly enters into DBOs with new countries, while existing DBOs are constantly being renewed. Denmark has had a DBO with Luxembourg since 1982. The agreement was last renewed in 2009 when it became possible for Denmark to request banking information for citizens residing in Luxembourg. The DBO concluded with Luxembourg is based on international standards as set out in the OECD Model Agreement. Thus, the DBO does not differ from DBOs that Denmark has entered into with other countries. So Denmark and Luxembourg agree on what it should look like. The proposed bill ensures that pensions are taxed in the future. Whatever the problems with the tax rules in Luxembourg, there is no reason why we should not have a DBO with Luxembourg. There is simply no reason to terminate it. Although we denounced the DBO, the EU directives in key areas such as interest rates and dividends would continue to apply. It therefore makes no sense to terminate the agreement and it would not solve the problems of a customer country entering into secret tax agreements. This has to be resolved in a different way, as I have already explained. The government will unceasingly continue its work to counter the use of tax havens and aggressive international tax planning. This is mainly done through active participation in the relevant forums of the EU and the OECD in order to put maximum pressure on those countries and companies that have not understood the message. In addition, the government will promote the introduction of an anti-circumvention clause. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127115251	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. I think it is most appropriate to postpone the sitting here. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130039	Then we can resume the meeting. We have come so far that the actual debate on Question No. F 7 starts, and they do so, by giving the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130051	Thank you. Sending money into tax havens is stealing from the community. It is like stuffing money that should have been spent on kindergartens, nursing homes, railways and climate protection, into its own pocket. The SF's position is that we must do everything we can to close the gaps that enable this kind of rich-man stealing in broad daylight. Luxembourg is now being used as a Hellenic for multinational companies that want to send their money into tax havens. It must be stopped, and that is why the SF has today also presented a proposal with three different proposals to make it harder to cheat taxes through complicated tax havens. In the SF, we believe that we should clarify in the legislation that, of course, a third country cannot be used as a staging point for shady tax structures, such as we. has seen that IKEA and Pepsi have done with Luxembourg. Specifically, a so-called anti-circumvention clause should be added to the legislation so that the EU parent-daughter directive cannot be used to legally transfer capital to Luxembourg and thus avoid paying tax in Denmark. From the SF's point of view, we really, really want international agreements. That's the best part. I also heard the tax minister say that this is of course also the intention of the Danish Government. However, we do not believe that we should wait for EU rules to be changed. We can also do something in Denmark. If a country such as Luxembourg is blocking it because it wants to continue its own tax nonsense, then we must ensure that our own legislation does not allow that sort of thing. In SF we would also like to prevent Denmark from being abused in the ingenious constructions of the multinationals. Unfortunately, Denmark is not the tax fool that we often believe. The Danish rules for limited companies make it possible today to use Denmark as a greedy tax thinker. It has appeared, among other things. in a large number of articles in Børsen, that Danish limited companies are used for extensive hiding of black money and tax evasion by foreign, so-called investors of more or less awkward nature. Last but not least, we in the SF want to stop a gap in legislation which today makes it possible to get tax rebates in Denmark if you invest in a company in tax havens. Overall, we are very pleased with the legislation that has been in place over the last few years, and also with the package presented by the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Business and Growth, but we believe that we should do more, both at home and at EU level. And it is SF's view that Denmark must take the lead in the EU to close those gaps. SF and Enhedslisten, who are also coming up here on the platform, fully agree that we should do what we can in Denmark when there is actually something legislative to do to close tax gaps, because we think it is both immoral, but also a purely practical problem in a time of crisis, that there is money going billions out of the country that could have been used for welfare. So I am very much looking forward to the debate, including on any issues that may arise. I myself have a number of questions, both for rapporteurs and for the tax minister, so I hope to see him up here on the platform. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out. I am glad that a wide range of parties are behind this. It's a bit surprising, but a happy surprise. The proposal for adoption is by the Left, Social Democracy, DF, Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten, Conservative People's Party and Uffe Elbæk (UFG). Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Minister of Taxation's statement. In addition, the Folketing imposes on the Government V.5
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130521	Thank you. The proposal for adoption which has been read out will be included in the further debate. I would just like to say that at least one person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130533	Thank you. The rapporteur started by saying that using tax havens was like stealing, meaning that these big companies that use tax havens are stealing from the community, and the rapporteur was so outraged about it. Then it surprises me that, when you were in government yourself, SF chose to sell Danish companies to these constructions that use tax havens. I think it seems a bit double moral to call for a good debate today to focus on this, while selling DONG to Goldman Sachs when you were in government. It seems a little double moral.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130610	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130611	It may be that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's memory is worse than mine, but I remember that we had a little debate on that matter at the time. And while SF was in government and we had this discussion, we also discussed the tax havens that were behind that sale widely in the Folketing. The problem at the time was also that of tax havens, and the Minister for Finance replied that today we simply cannot take into account with the law in hand whether a company operates through a tax havens, and I really think it is quite absurd that it should not be taken into account whether you want to cooperate with a company if that company operates through a tax havens. By today we see in Politiken that Danish pension companies also, in fact in order to invest, will have to go through a tax haven. What we want, and what has become highly topical again with the Luxembourg disclosures, is for us to actually have legislation so that we can say: we do not want to trade with companies that cheat on taxes, and that is why we want to have the legislation in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130722	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130724	Yeah, but you can do both. One thing is that you say that you want to do everything you can to prevent us from having these companies, but then you could start by not selling companies as a government, for example. Goldman Sachs, who you know is obviously using this. You could've picked another buyer. I would just like to say that it is not entirely connected; there is not really any common ground in the argument put forward when you say that you will do everything you can to avoid these companies operating in tax havens, but that at the same time you choose to sit in a government that sells to a company that operates in a tax haven. Does the rapporteur himself not see that something is not related to that argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130803	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130804	That is precisely why we had the very big debate, which I think most people in this House can remember, so it is no longer a question of the problem that not only Goldman Sachs, but most multinational companies and also Danish pension funds either very actively, or because it is virtually impossible to do otherwise, use tax havens. That's why we had that discussion 11 months ago, and we've had it 1, 2 and 3 years ago, because these examples keep coming up. Now it has been re-acquired because we have discovered that the Luxembourg Government has most likely contributed actively to this. So it is no more strange than that we would like to have closed the gaps that make it actually not illegal, or that it is not possible with the law in hand to avoid trading with companies operating from tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130907	We thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen; there are no more brief remarks. And we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127130917	The reason why we have the question debate is the leaked documents which have described different tax structures and agreements based on Luxembourg and, as the tax minister said, that is something that is being examined at the moment. And luckily and well for that, because immediately there is reason to say that it probably looks unpretty, to put it mildly, but instead of being here today to judge it on the basis of newspaper articles I am happy to hear that there is of course going to be followed up in the right places. For the Left, it is crucial that taxpayers pay the tax they have to pay, no more and no less. In recent years there has been strong international cooperation in the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. Because when we look at the numbers at home, it might be 3-5 billion. kr. that is at stake, and we must, of course, make sure that what is in force is complied with and that the citizens and companies pay the tax according to the legislation we have adopted here in the Folketing. Fortunately, as I said, there is a lot going on internationally. It is important that the main effort is made globally, because one country cannot solve these problems alone. And that is why we in the Left are very pleased that in recent years there has been a series of initiatives from G8, G 20, the OECD and the European Union, and we are also beginning to see the concrete results of that effort. Everyone talks about mutual information exchange as one of the most effective tools, and there is no doubt that it is a crucial and effective tool. This means that you cannot hide in other countries, that you cannot save fortunes in other countries, but if the countries exchange information, yes, then the tax authorities where the money is to be taxed will also receive the necessary information and ensure that the tax is recovered. At EU level, there are also austerity measures under way in the so-called country-by-country interest rate taxation directive, and the parent/subsidiary directive is under review and is expected, as the tax minister said, to be adjusted by tightening already in the very near future. We in the Left can give warm support to all this. I have to say in relation to the remark made by the SF rapporteur that it was gratifying that there were so many parties behind the proposal for adoption that I found it somewhat surprising. Because if I look back at what happened in the time of the VK government, there was a series of initiatives to combat tax havens. A project was launched, Money Transfer, which examined some extremely large billions, which had been moved between Denmark and tax havens, to see if everything had been done by the book, or whether the weight had been cheated. And so much cheating has been found on the scale that the impact of that project amounts to extra tax revenue of 1.3 billion. kr. The project has been continued and there is still money in the box. We in Denmark probably have the toughest rules in the world compared to what is called transfer pricing. This means that we have tough rules to ensure that companies cannot trade with themselves and, via artificial prices, can move profits out of the country and thus avoid Danish taxation. So we have done a lot by the Left and we want to be on board. The Minister for Taxation mentioned the government's proposal here from the beginning of November, and I have to say that there are quite a lot of sensible initiatives in what follows on from what we have done in the past on the part of the Left. I shall not go down all of them, but say that there are many of them that we consider to be quite reasonable. We must, of course, get down to the detail, because it may be that there are things below the surface that have unintended negative consequences, and we need to make that clear in the negotiations that are coming. I have to mention one element which I must say already that we in the Left are very concerned about, and that is the proposal that the tax authorities should have the opportunity to disregard a binding response that the authority itself has given to a taxpayer. I have to say that, in terms of legal certainty, we find it extremely questionable that the citizen should receive a binding response from the authorities, but subsequently the authorities regret it and then the binding answer should no longer apply. It is clear that this is something we want to address in the discussions that we need to move forward. On the Left side, we support strengthened action against tax havens. We are very much in favour of lower taxes, but it must therefore be something we adopt here in the Folketing, and not something we earn ourselves for. We are in favour of companies competing fairly and equally with each other, and that therefore requires that no one avoids taxation by cheating on the weight. So we have been active in the fight against tax havens, and we will continue to be on the side of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131443	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131449	On Monday evening 40 out of 41 members of the Regional Council of the Region of Southern Denmark decided that they would prevent trading with companies located in tax havens. Will the Left help us to introduce a rule here in Denmark so that regions and municipalities can decide that there is no trading with companies based in tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131525	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131527	The specific case, as Mr. Frank Aaen mentions, I'm not familiar with. And I'm sorry to have to report something I don't know about, so I'm gonna have to be sir. Frank Aaen answer guilty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131544	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131545	Now it has been mentioned in all of the country's newspapers, but it is quite all right to read it all. But then I just have the simple question, and that is really what is at the heart of what I asked before: will the Left help to say that municipalities and regions are allowed to decide that when they send things in tenders, companies located in tax havens cannot participate in tenders?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131612	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131613	Well, I am generally in favour of municipalities and regions having a freest possible framework in relation to the conditions they impose in a tender. I know that there have been discussions in Aarhus, I think it was about whether one could demand a particular form of production and whether it was now within the framework or not. And I'm not an expert on the procurement rules to be able to say if it's legal today or if it's not legal. I do not know whether that is what has been the announcement in relation to the decision that has then been taken in the Region of Southern Denmark. I'm afraid I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131648	Then there is one more short comment, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131653	I believe that in my speech I both said that several governments have taken steps in relation to tax havens, but also that I do think, however, that in particular this government has done so, not least since the SF sat in government. But when I expressed my pleasure and surprise at the broad support in the House for the proposal for adoption, it was also because, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen always says, that you have to pay the tax you now have to pay, no more or less, as in my optics often comes to cover up that what is legal, but that we may not think should be legal, a tax fin, a tax hole we would like to have closed, we do not really have to deal with because it is not directly illegal. And what we want, both with our proposal for adoption and today's debate, is to say: there are things that we actually think are wrong and there are some tax gaps that we would like to have closed but which are not directly illegal today. So would the rapporteur not like to moderate his statements a little? Because if we were always to say that you have to pay the tax you have to pay under the law, neither more nor less, then we never went anywhere. One might add this: but there are many places where we want to tighten up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131811	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131813	In other words, I do not think that the SF rapporteur can find one example of the fact that we in the Left have not helped to close tax gaps in this Chamber. As soon as a tax minister realises that there is a tax gap, we have always helped to close it off, of course we have it. And if there is something that SF does not like, it is fair enough, but then SF has to make a concrete proposal in terms of changing the way the rules are and then we have to deal with it. I understand, then, that what lies in it from the SF is that you want to increase the tax. And that's a perfectly legitimate wish, but we just don't share that. But we fully agree that we must respect the rules that exist, and this also means that we must not be able to take money out and avoid paying Danish taxes, because we have found a way of circumventing the Danish rules and thus, contrary to the rules, avoid paying taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131913	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127131914	Well, the problem is that some of this is not contrary to the rules, but that it is legal tax holes that I feel today at least that we agree that we do not like the use of limited companies to turn Denmark into a flowing country, that we can take advantage of the mother/daughter directive because we do not have a circumvention clause, etc. etc. The companies using these tricks are not doing anything directly illegal, and I am therefore glad that what I hear the rapporteur say today is: yes, there are things that are legal today but that we really want to do illegal because we think it is fair to pay taxes. That is why I have two very specific questions for the rapporteur: 1) Will the rapporteur vote in favour of making limited liability companies taxable today? And (2) If there is no circumvention clause from the EU soon, will the rapporteur vote in favour of such a clause being introduced into Danish legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132016	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132017	To conclude, I have to say that this is my clear expectation and that is also what the tax minister said: there will be a change clause from the European Union. And I have to say that I think it is most appropriate that we should play together in Europe there. With regard to the issue of limited companies, in relation to the need for greater openness on the real owners, I would say that this is one of the initiatives that the government has taken and which we on the Left have already said we are looking at positively. We are concerned about closing tax gaps and making it difficult for people who want to avoid paying Danish taxes, because we think it is only fair that when you operate in Denmark, you pay the tax you have to pay in Denmark, and it is not fair to the citizens and companies who abide by the rules that someone cheats on the weight and does not contribute. It is both unfair to one's fellow man, but it is also unfair competition vis-à-vis the companies that comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132116	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are no more brief comments, so I can give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132126	Thank you. And this time we both came up on the platform and down again without accident. That's very good or you can end up on national television in the late evening, I understand. I would like to thank the SF and Enhedslisten for raising this question on a subject which, unfortunately, one can say is highly topical and regularly clears the front pages of the newspapers. I think there are many of us who can agree that it is a disgrace when both companies and individuals aggressively speculate not to pay taxes in the country in which they have earned their money. And it is unreasonable if it keeps water that an EU country like Luxembourg makes shady tax agreements with multinational companies so that they avoid paying billions of tax in other EU countries, which Politiken, DR and others have recently uncovered, following on from the 548 leaked contract documents that have been given the name Luxleaks. It is not right for EU countries to do business helping businesses and individuals systematically speculate not to pay taxes in other EU countries. This is cheating neighbors for money that could have been spent in schools or caring for children and the elderly. I guess that side of the problem can be summed up as simple as that. That is why I would also like to say that it is absolutely right that the President of the European Commission should launch an automatic exchange of information on favourable tax rules in the EU countries and that the Commission is already looking at Luxembourg precisely in relation to tax agreements with multinational companies. I can also understand from our new Commissioner for Competition in the European Union, whom we know quite well at home, namely Mrs Margrethe Vestager, that this is something she wants to be concerned with. And I think that's really good to hear so clearly from her. But just as easy it is to point out the negative effects of this kind of aggressive tax speculation and tax planning, namely that it hits the community then an effective effort is complex, as all the rapporteurs have so far and probably the Minister has also mentioned. Nevertheless, it is important, but it is not something that is solved with a single snap. The government has continuously made it more difficult to speculate on cheating the community, and the minister mentioned a large number of them, so I would just like to mention a few. We have introduced safeguards, including stricter safeguards, than we have, for example. in Sweden, so companies are taxed here in Denmark, even if they move the management's seat abroad, if that is how it should be. We have introduced open tax lists for companies, and the government has, of course, launched a draft action plan against tax havens based on what came out of the inter-ministerial task force set up in 2013 to combat this kind of speculation. With the 2015 Finance Act, together with SF and Enhedslisten, we have further strengthened efforts to combat tax havens. We have set aside 10 million. kr. in 2015 increasing to 15 million. kr. in 2016-2018 for strengthened action against tax havens, which will subsequently be implemented by agreements, and we have re-priorityd development assistance in 2015 and allocated a further 10 million. kr. in the field of taxation and development, including the fight against illegal capital flows, that is, important, good things pointing out in the world where we also need to lend a hand. It is the case that a few weeks ago, the Minister of Taxation presented an ambitious tax havens package which takes place in three places. The Minister for Taxation mentioned this, and I will not repeat it all, because then we can spend each other's time better, but it is an offensive international effort, a greater openness on corporate ownership and recommendations for good tax advice. As several others have also mentioned from the platform, there is, of course, a cross-border phenomenon at the heart of the foundation, which therefore makes the most sense, far along the way, to combat internationally. The government is working hard for this both in the EU and in the OECD, and with the tax havens package we will include. fight for automatic exchange of information on bank information and credit transfers to be introduced as a global standard. There should be no doubt about who owns a company, and one should not be able to speculate about blurring who owns a company in order to evade tax. That is why we also want the tax havens package to create full transparency about ownership, so that tax authorities know who should be taxed and, at the same time, we are putting in place to strengthen the supervision of money laundering. Finally, the government comes up with a set of recommendations on good tax advice, because there should be no doubt that tax advisors also have a responsibility, of course, not to advise on cross-border tax evasion. Today, the authors of the question ask whether we should abandon our double taxation agreement with Luxembourg as a consequence of recent stories. I understand this as a rather hypothetical question as a starting point for having the discussion, but that is why I would like to answer it anyway. If these stories hold water, we're gonna have to go hard to Luxembourg. At the same time, however, I would like to say that I find it difficult to see how it would reduce speculation or prevent Luxembourg from making secret tax agreements with companies if we were to terminate our double taxation agreement with them. On the contrary, with the agreement we have just been given the opportunity to tax pensions etc., which are paid from Denmark to a recipient in Luxembourg, and we can request bank information from a citizen resident in Luxembourg. It's a deal we win a lot by sticking to. I look forward to the negotiations that have been convened for where we can sit together and discuss further on the tax havens package from the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132701	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag. I have noted a few brief remarks, the first of which is Mr Beazley's report. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132706	First of all, I think that we have excellent cooperation with the government and the government parties to take tougher action against tax havens. I cannot help asking the question whether it was not a little stupid to sell the shares in DONG to a tax haven, and if it is not a bit too bad that a private pension company can be called a semi-public pension company? I would like to make a comment on that. But my real question is this: when a region now says that it would like it to be entitled to refuse to conclude contracts for the supply of goods and services, on the grounds that the company in question is based in a tax haven, does the Social Democrats agree that it must, of course, be possible for a region and a municipality to reject companies based in tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132810	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132811	Well, that's kind of the same thing as Mr. Thompson. Frank Aaen had with the rapporteur of the Left, and I would say that I am also very much in favour of deciding how things will be dealt with in regions and municipalities. I think, for example, that it is very positive that, as I understand it, all regions have decided to have social clauses in connection with the super hospital building. This is a good example of the largest construction project in Denmark since the construction of the medieval people's churches. I think it makes sense to do so. That is why I would also like to say that it must of course be examined whether it can be lawful to make such demands. There is therefore a need, and I actually think the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned this, to look at what this looks like in relation to the procurement directive in the EU and EU rules, before one can say whether it will be possible for us to legalise it here. However, I think it is very sensible to make such decisions in regions and municipalities to a large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132911	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132912	Well, thank you for agreeing, though, that is the way it should be. I also took it as a commitment that, if there are any EU rules that prevent it, we will try to change the EU rules. But it may turn out to be very heavy to have these kinds of rules changed if they are what I'm afraid they are. That is why I would like to ask: should we not just introduce that rule in Denmark, so that regions and municipalities must of course refuse to trade with companies based in tax havens? The European Union must then come and say that we must not do so. It would be an exciting debate if the European Union were to come and say: should we not just do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132957	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127132958	I would like to say that, on the basis of what I have just said, I will always refer to the fact that the legislation we are putting forward here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which the government is proposing, is not supposed to be something that is being put forward, knowing that it is not legal. That is why we regularly run into the need for assessments of law compliance in relation to EU regulation. So I do not think that makes much sense to go into, but it may be that the Minister can tell us a little more about whether there are any discussions on this at EU level, either when he has the floor or later.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133032	Then we have one more brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133035	Thank you. It's a little in the wake of Mr. Frank Aaen's question. Because there is an increasing interest from municipalities and regions in making demands which they are uncertain as to whether they can be allowed to make today. And if Mrs Astrid Krag remembers the DR broadcast that was a few weeks ago, there was a mayor from Gribskov with her. There was an example that welfare licensing had gone to a company in a tax haven construction. I don't know if the mayor of Gribskov has become wiser or what has happened... it must always be allowed... but at least in today's Politiken, he thinks you have to make some demands. He writes: "Capital funds can therefore increasingly be behind the companies that provide care, care and care for the Danes. This reinforces the need for us to take a political stance at national level on the demands we will make on the commitment of the capital funds to public welfare. Well, it was a bit like that, sir. Frank Aaen also said in the form of the example of the Region of Southern Denmark. There is therefore an increasing interest, even from bourgeois mayors, who outsource, in making it possible for us to make demands politically. So will Mrs Astrid Krag comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133149	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133150	Well, as I also mentioned in my speech, I understand Danish tax law in such a way that there are, in fact, already a number of different rules of protection. They may not be industry-specific, so it is not particularly aimed at ensuring a protection against speculation in welfare services, which is what I hear the SF's rapporteur is concerned with, but, in general, towards industries. It might have been appropriate to have an overview sent to the Tax Committee of what these are actually for some protective measures we have. Because, as I understand it, we have better safeguards than, for example. Sweden, which has also been able to hear in that programme how a Swedish capital fund speculates about the rules and offers welfare benefits and that it has had a lot of negative consequences. In fact, I would think that would be quite appropriate to have the transfer to committee, that is to say, what kind of protective measures we have. At least I think it is very good if we are better equipped to resist such speculation than we have been in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133245	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133246	However, we certainly do not have better safeguards than that the Finance Minister, during the DONG case and the Goldman Sachs case 11 months ago, said: we cannot use the law in hand, that they operate through a tax havens, to say no to them. We can't. That is what we are discussing today. It seems as if there is a broad interest in us fighting in the EU and here at home or in the municipalities, or who would like to see us say with the law in hand that, just as we demand certified wood, fair trade, ecology and everything else, we also want to ensure that tax dollars when we trade with companies remain in the pocket of the citizens. In today's policy on the front page, the finance minister says again: this is really hard to get around. It's hard to invest if you want to make sure it doesn't end up in tax havens. But that is what we want to change. Does Mrs Astrid Krag agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133346	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133347	Yes, and that is why we have to have common international mechanisms here too, because otherwise it will be like water running down, that is to say you will always find another hole. And if we go back decades, we had a Left Treasure Minister who said that there are no tax holes, but there are breathing holes. This kind of thinking is unfortunately the one that can be found far into the corridors, even when we are talking about advisers. So I think it must be obvious that we should go for international regulation, and then I think it is very sensible to have a discussion about what standards should actually be for tax advice. It is also part of the tax havens package. So I will just repeat here at the end, if this is the last time I have the floor, that I look very much forward to the negotiations that two government ministers have called for next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133429	I shall not be able to say whether this is the last time that Mrs Astrid Krag has the floor today, but there are certainly no more brief comments, so it will not be in this round. Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127133441	Thank you. The reason for this question debate is, as the other rapporteurs have said, that we have seen a group of journalists revealing a number of documents which showed that there was a very deliberate cooperation to make international tax evasion with Luxembourg in the main role, where Luxembourg has deliberately helped to make tax evasion, and we in the Danish People's Party think that it is quite unsympathetic to deal with a country that is a member of the European Union. One may then disagree on how large the European Community should be, but now we have an EU community, and we do not think it is particularly sympathetic to have a country that deliberately goes in and undermines the tax revenues of other countries, a revenue which must, of course, be used, among other things. to create infrastructure for businesses, but also for the welfare of citizens. We do not think that is right, and we also think that it is very worrying, something that needs to be investigated, that there is now a former Prime Minister from Luxembourg, Jean-Claude Juncker, who is now President of the European Commission. How much has he been aware of in such a case? I also find this very interesting, and I also have the impression that the European Commission is digging in, because it is not sustainable to have a man sitting on that post if he has sat and undermined the interests of other countries. So what's the solution to getting rid of these tax havens? This is incredibly difficult, and I can also hear from the other rapporteurs that there is no such clear explanation or a good solution. This is something that has been the focus of many countries for many years and many have tried, but it is so natural that companies will try to move their capital to the place where they get the least tax payment possible, because large multinational companies see tax as a cost, a cost that reduces profits to their owners. So it's hard, especially for individual countries to try to solve this, because capital will just move somewhere else where the tax is low instead. So in a globalised world where capital moves around, it is very difficult for individual countries or individual states to prevent multinational companies from circumventing tax rules either by law or by law in some cases. For such an area here we simply have to work with other countries, and we must honestly admit that such a problem as this is best solved internationally. Some of the solutions that need to be found have been mentioned by several other rapporteurs, and the tax minister has also, as I said, come up with a package on which we are very much looking forward to constructive discussions, but some of the things that need to be looked at are, of course, bilateral agreements with other countries, including double taxation agreements, in which, of course, we are looking at avoiding double taxation in this case and also avoiding double non-taxation. It is important to have constructive agreements with other countries on such things. It is also important to ensure that we have a good exchange with other countries in order to find out who is cheating in the illegal way, if you can put it that way. After all, there is a greater chance of catching them if you exchange information and thereby see that there may be some things that are not appropriate. Is that even a huge problem? Some of the things you could see in relation to the research that has been done show that Denmark alone is being cheated on between 3 and 5 billion. kr. annual. It is therefore huge sums, which I think we are many politicians in here who could well use many good and constructive proposals, so I think there is something to come for. It is money which then does not go to the community as they should otherwise have done. I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to the negotiations we are going to get going. I think it is extremely positive if we in the Folketing can find joint initiatives that can be set in motion, possibly giving a joint mandate for us to go out and take some agreements with other countries that can stem this. I would also like to comment on the fact that it is a little strange that the European Union, once again, is also helping to create problems, because when we chose to make rules for moving capital and assets between countries, we simply forgot to have some rules in place so that we could avoid having these tax havens, as we see in Luxembourg. I guess you should have taken that into account earlier when you made those constructions. It is a bit the same as you can see from the fact that we in the Danish People's Party, for example. I would like to see control of the cross-border problems we have. When, among other things, one of them... If the rules on the free movement of workers were to be made, it was forgotten that some barriers were to be put up in terms of what would then be done to stem all the consequences that come, among other things. With criminals crossing borders, drug smuggling and other things. So there are some things you forgot to bring when you looked at EU legislation from the start. Then there are specific things in the text of the question that Enhedslisten and SF have included, whether Denmark should not make double taxation agreements with countries that deliberately help multinational companies, and here I have to understand that it is probably Luxembourg, because that is what this is all about, and that is where I would say: no, on the contrary, we should not refrain from making agreements. We have to make agreements with these countries, but it is clear that it must of course be agreements that have a strong focus on avoiding this cheating. So by not making agreements with the countries, we are just saying that there may be double non-taxation, so I think it is important that we do just that. I would like to say that I also find it strange, as I also said in my question, that in this debate a great deal is being done about being against tax havens, but at the same time have chosen to sell Danish companies, DONG, to companies operating in tax havens. I think it is a little strange that we went forward and said that this was the best trade Denmark could make. When you sit here today and are very offended that there are companies operating in tax havens, perhaps it would be better to find some others to buy them. However, I would like to conclude by saying that we are very much looking forward to the negotiations that are going to take place on this area and saying that we in the Danish People's Party naturally support initiatives that can reduce the use of tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134045	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. We have one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134052	It's starting to get a little funny with sir. Dennis Flydtkjær's comments that back in January there was no discussion at all about tax havens or anything else. I remember that we had a broad and vibrant life in the Folketing. And there was also a broad indication that we did not really like this either if it was Goldman Sachs or if it was Danish pension funds. At the time, the debate was also a little concerned whether it would be better if it were only Danish pension funds. On the front page of Politiken today there is an example of ATP which says that they simply cannot invest all these hundreds of millions without going through a tax light construction. And this whole discussion has also been re-examined because of the Luxembourg disclosures. That's why we're gonna get back to it. That is why the SF is putting forward a proposal to close the Luxembourg fin. So my first question is: if there is no international agreement in the European Union within a very short time and the SF's proposal is put forward in the Chamber, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and DF then vote in favour of introducing a circumvention clause into Danish tax legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134207	Yes, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134210	It is quite true that there was a huge debate both in here and in the Danish population when they had the sale of DONG. It's not actually what's up now... whether you had a debate or not... but what I'm just wondering about is that SF was in the tax office at the time and chose to sell DONG to a company operating in a tax haven. You've had three tax ministers in the time you sat in government that didn't get this hole closed. After all, it is a little easy to raise the flag in a question debate and then demand that the government which is still being supported should not, after having actually had three tax ministers themselves who have not left it. In the end, we also voted in favour of the proposal here in the Folketing, which sold DONG to companies operating in tax havens. Now Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is shaking his head, but they did. The entire SF group voted in favour of the sale here in Parliament. I think it is a pity that in this way you try to run away from the things you were responsible for when you were in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134302	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134304	I think it is a pity that we cannot have a discussion about what we are talking about today, which is about Luxembourg. to close the Luxembourg Fint. But I'm gonna have to refresh Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær's memory, for the DONG sale was not put to the vote in the Parliamentary Chamber. That was it in the Finance Committee. So nobody had to vote on the sale of DONG in the Parliamentary Chamber. But let it go. My question is, and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær not on: If an agreement is not soon reached at EU level, what of course we hope there will do, is it not better for Denmark to take the lead and at least ensure that our own legislation cannot be misused by such an anti-abuse clause or by circumvention clause? Will DF vote for it? Is it not better than nothing that we at least protect our own taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134353	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134354	After all, I am not an expert on what is going on at EU level, but as far as I am aware, there is precisely something at the next ECOFIN meeting about abuse clauses. And, as I understand it, even Luxembourg agrees that it should be incorporated into EU legislation. So I actually think it's coming, which I think is positive. So immediately, until you have had this ECOFIN meeting in 12 days, I do not think it makes much sense if the Danish Parliament should say that we are now introducing it, then 12 days after finding out that it is being done internationally. I would also say that if one chooses to implement it at Danish level, I cannot immediately see through what consequences it will have. What does it want, for example? do about investment in Denmark? Will people turn around? Or can we even do it in relation to EU law, so do something like this ourselves? So I have not seen that through right now, but I would say: let us wait and see if we do not solve this at EU or OECD level, because that is where I think it is moving most.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134442	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments, so we can move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Nadeem Farooq from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134453	Thank you to the authors for highlighting this important theme of tax havens. It is a theme that has been updated after the leaked documents from PwC. The fight against tax havens must be stubborn and effective. For the Radical Left and for the government, the fight against tax havens is important and therefore a priority. It is as part of the fight against tax havens that the government presented a tax havens package a few weeks ago to help act as a bulwark against international tax evasion. The Minister for Taxation has already mentioned elements from this tax havens package, so I will not repeat that here, but it is important that we think in a multidisciplinary and inter-ministerial way if the fight against tax havens is to be won from a Danish perspective. To this must be said that we can, of course, launch initiatives in Denmark, but the most important effort must be made within the international framework. The government sees this as an international task to be solved internationally. The government is working on this focused and effective in both the EU and the OECD. Both the EU and the OECD have adopted a so-called code of conduct which recommends countries to be open and transparent. Among other things, the recommendations state that income statements must be based on internationally recognised principles, and in this respect I must point out that mutual information exchange agreements play a vital role in the fight against tax havens. It stresses that the fight against tax havens is most effective at international level, and we must, of course, contribute with everything we can. Thus, the way forward is not to think about terminating double taxation agreements, for example. Luxembourg. What I note is that there is a willingness from Luxembourg too to clarify these things and to exorcise what has happened and to move forward in the fight against tax havens. What can be seen is that illegal State aid has been granted by Luxembourg and must be treated as such, namely illegal State aid. The fight against tax havens is about the legal certainty of taxpayers. It is about getting the rightful money into the treasury for the good of the community, but it is also about the legal certainty of companies. The vast majority of companies, including multinational companies, play according to the rules and with the fairness that is required. Multinational companies in Denmark play a significant role in the prosperity and job creation of the private sector. The fight against tax evasion must go hand in hand with attractive business conditions, including for multinational companies. The Radical Left can support the proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134814	Thank you, sir. Nadeem Farooq. There are no requests for short remarks, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Frank Aaen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127134832	I can well say that the Enhedslisten has been quite active for many years in fighting tax havens and fighting multinational companies that do not want to pay taxes, including in Denmark, and in areas where multinational companies are trying to sneak around. But I will come back to that in a moment. I think it is impressive that it is just now that the debate on tax havens that we have today is about to explode, which among other things. is on the basis of the revelations from Luxembourg, but indeed past revelations. All of a sudden, there is such a broad political majority who wants to do something about the subject, as we see in today's debate and in today's motion for a resolution. So, a short time ago, I simply did not think it would be possible, and we should only praise that. Never criticize people who go one step further than you expected, towards what you stand for yourself well enough. I would like to add, however, that it is a pity that a large majority in the Danish Parliament recently decided to sell a large part of the shares in DONG to a company in a tax haven. It is therefore very unfortunate that parties who say they are against tax havens can stand by and watch that ATP buys shares in DONG through a tax haven. I've read their excuse, which was that you could only buy those shares if you did it through a tax haven. But then you just can't; no one is forcing you to invest in a particular company through a tax haven. That is why I would like to say that the most important thing in this debate is not to agree that we must combat tax havens, because there is now broad agreement on this, perhaps with one exception, and we will hear this in a moment, namely from the Liberal Alliance. What is clearly crucial in this discussion is whether or not there is agreement on the action that needs to be taken in this area. That is what is crucial, and it can be said that it was a little strange to see that the Minister of Finance, while announcing action against tax havens, sold the shares in DONG to a company in tax havens. It's a little weird, so the government has to try to find a common course in this matter. I would also like to say that there is often the excuse that says: can you do that for the European Union? And there I think it is moving in the right direction, including in the European Union, what the tax minister has said. But we also know that things are moving slowly, and we also know that we do not go as far as we would like here in the Danish Parliament. That is why I would like to say that the Enhedslisten is in favour of going as far as you can within the EU's common rules, because it is best to have international rules against this tax havens thing. However, we see no reason why Denmark should not go ahead in those areas where the European Union does not want to. I know that they say that then the European Union and the Court of Justice will come after us. Yeah, maybe they do. I think it would be a great story if the European Union and the Court of Justice came and told Denmark that we should accept trade with tax havens. I'd like to see that. I think it would raise the EU debate in this country a great deal if the EU's rules on the free movement of capital were to go so far as to force us to accept trading in tax havens. I cannot even imagine, in my wildest anti-European fantasy, that the European Union would try to go along that path. But I would say: let us together try to create rules in this country that protect our tax base, ensure that Danish companies are not undermined by companies that are located in a tax haven and can thus offer lower jobs than Danish or German companies can. Because there is nothing particularly national in it, other than that I think we should prevent tax havens from using unfair competition and in this way try to secure an income plus an income from which they do not pay taxes. Finally, I would like to ask two questions. On the way, we have had a debate about whether it is possible, firstly, for a municipality or a region to say that they will not trade with companies located in a tax havens and that it must be in their tender documents. Is it possible, or is it not possible? And if that is not possible, will the Minister work to ensure that it is possible? Because we believe it goes without saying that in this way we must be able to protect ourselves from trading with companies in tax havens. Moreover, this is not just a problem for Denmark. This concerns, for example: It is also developing countries which, to a degree beyond what we know in this country, are affected by the desire of multinational companies to avoid paying taxes. There, too, we have a bit of a subject of debate. Because, on the one hand, SKAT includes double taxation agreements, which, in our view, are not quite as much for the benefit of the developing world as they should be. And on the other hand, we have a development minister who would like to help developing countries to get more into tax by, for example, to take action against multinational companies. Could we not, together, have a hearing where we sort of address this issue and where we get SKAT and the Minister for Trade and Development to work in the same direction instead of working in different directions, as we saw with SKAT and the Minister for Finance in connection with DONG? I think it would be nice if the members of the government went in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127135425	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127135434	I would like to start a long way back in history when the whole world was poor and backward, and then suddenly a human civilisation emerged that went far beyond all other civilizations, namely the European one. Why was it precisely in Europe that freedom and prosperity arose? Why wasn't it, for example? China, who became the leading nation in the world? Why wasn't it Russia? Historians have wondered, and the most convincing answers come from historians who say: it was because there was no central power in Europe that could bring down tough rules on citizens and businesses. There were a number of different states in Europe, for example. Länder in Germany and princes with independent princes, and if one ruler treated his citizens badly, the citizens could move themselves and their money over to another ruler who treated them better. In this way the whole premise and the whole idea that regimes should treat their citizens and their businesses properly arose, because the alternative to them not doing so was that the prince stood with himself in a country without any citizens and businesses to rule over. So competition between countries is good. It is good that citizens and businesses can opt out of a country with despotic rules and despotic taxes in favour of another country that is less despotic. This is the basis on which Europe became a rich and developed civilisation. It is good for both citizens and companies that we also today have the freedom to cross borders. It ensures prosperity in the world that cross-border trade can take place, and we should not prevent that. Then there are some companies that of course choose to lay down in countries where taxation is lower than in Denmark, and most do so quite legally. A few do it by illegal means, and then there are some politicians who like to blow up some big blows: see what we will do about this; we will certainly do a lot! And then they stand here and say some non-committal phrases about good governance and advice, etc. that do not lead anyone anywhere. The thing is, they can't do anything. But what you can do to prevent companies from moving out of Denmark with their money, both legally and illegally, is to make sure that Denmark is a place worth being in. It is to ensure that the regulation in Denmark of companies is not too harsh and that taxes are not too harsh. In this way, you get them to want to be here all by themselves. Let's take a big Danish, honorable company like LEGO, which allegedly set up a company in Switzerland that owns the LEGO brand. Every time the factory in Denmark sends a package of LEGO on the market, the factory in Denmark has to pay to use LEGO's trademark, and then the money goes to Switzerland, where the tax is approx. 5%, instead of being on those in Denmark that are barely 25%. in corporation tax. There's nothing you can do about that, dear left. You have no suggestions on how to do anything about it. We have a proposal and that is to ensure that taxation in Denmark is competitive with taxation in other countries. In this way, it is ensured that companies have no interest in moving taxation out of the country. It's actually something that works. Your proposal doesn't work. I have not heard a single rapporteur on this platform who has come up with a proposal on how, for example, to do so. should stop LEGO from letting a large part of their profits flow to Switzerland, where you have the trade mark. So that's the solution. We also have a proposal for adoption that we make on behalf of ourselves, the Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the tax minister's statement and instructs the government to ensure that Denmark is a competitive society for companies to have their head office in. We live in a world where both people and businesses can move across borders and where each country's political systems have a decisive influence on where they choose to work and invest. The extent to which taxes are levied in the countries concerned is of great importance here. Denmark is a good country to operate from if we compare with the whole world. But if we only compare with highly developed countries, Denmark lags behind, especially when it comes to the overall tax burden. The Danish Parliament notes that this government has not made sufficient efforts to reduce the overall tax burden, that Denmark therefore continues to have the world's highest tax burden and that it leads companies to use both legal and illegal methods to avoid taxation in Denmark. • V (6). • V (6). •
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140010	That's what Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen read out proposals for adoption will be included in the debate. And I note that there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140023	The consequence of that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen said just before is that the tax rate in Denmark should be 0 or 0.5. 0 or 0,5% is basically the lowest you can get on the market. Nevertheless, I do not assume that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of this, but it is the consequence of the view that is contrary to what we others have, namely that we must ensure that we have a sound tax system on the one hand and that we have international agreements guaranteeing fair taxation, regardless of which country we are in. Then I would just like to ask: has it gone all the way past Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that you can press companies? McDonald's did not pay taxes in Denmark for more than 20 years, but it gave so much pressure that they started paying taxes. I don't think they did anything illegal, but they just started paying taxes. Or now that we have LEGO up, I would say that the pressure came that LEGO should not cooperate with Shell because of their very risky oil exploration, led LEGO not to cooperate with Shell. I mean, you can both with legislation and politically push things through what I can understand is outside the way of the Liberal Alliance's thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140145	It is not true that you will have to have a corporation tax of 0 or 0.5% in order for Denmark to be competitive. We propose that it should be reduced to 121⁄2%, and that means that Denmark is, I believe, 0.5 percentage points above what corporate tax is in Ireland. And Ireland is also a place where companies have their head office, although Ireland has a corporate tax rate of 12%, as I recall. Switzerland is then a country outside the European Union where you can have a corporation tax that is less than 12%. At least in the canton of Zug, where LEGO belongs, there is an estimated 5% rate. So it is a palette of several things that makes a country competitive. Company tax is one of the two things, and we think that part should also be used. Then Mr. Frank Aaen me, if I know that companies can be squeezed into something specific. I guess in theory you can do that, but since Mr. Frank Aaen very often stands on this platform and demands legislation, suggesting that he is not satisfied with the pressure he has put.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140252	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140253	I use all the palettes I can get close to to to get through what we think is a fair policy, including companies having to pay a fair tax in Denmark. We're working on that. But it is still the case that recently it was quite impossible to obtain tax information from Austria and tax information from Luxembourg and to get proper agreements with a large number of tax havens. After all, however, there has been a good deal of progress, and this has been done through political pressure and, therefore, pressure from states and through double taxation agreements. Is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen does not agree that one can either go along that path • thus make some agreements that force the countries to charge a proper tax or participate in a race to the bottom, which in the end is 0 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140347	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140347-2	Well, I fully agree that by sharing information with each other, the countries can prevent the illegal part of this tax havens complex. But I think, sir. Frank Aaen must agree with me that the legal part of the tax havens complex, that is, where companies legally lead money out of Denmark to tax in countries with lower tax rates than Denmark, is considerably larger than the illegal part. And all this exchange of information between countries does not prevent the legal part. It's just the illegal part it's all about. So I don't think that Mr. Frank Aaen has a real solution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140430	Then we move on to the next brief remark, which is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140434	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for actually making his position clear. I think there have been representatives of other parties up here who have been less clear. Then it is also good for the discussion, as well as having different views. I note that the rapporteur said that capital can be moved. This is good for citizens and businesses. What citizens? Those who can move their money into an account in a country with banking secrecy, or are it companies that are multinational and therefore know all these fake tricks about moving their money out of the country? It's not good for ordinary people who go to work every day and pay taxes. This is not good for ordinary companies, which are perhaps smaller companies which have neither the resources nor perhaps the desire to exploit such a global tax system. So I actually think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen with his arguments here says: It is really fine that there are some who have so much money and so many resources that they can save their money away and not contribute to the community, contrary to what quite ordinary companies and citizens do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140547	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140549	After all, I tried to outline the broad and long perspective and to tell you why Europe, unlike China and Russia, became a large and rich continent, and that was because there was a possibility here that citizens and traders and businesses could move to another country if their local rulers were too despotic. And what created Europe in its time as this experiment of freedom and prosperity must be preserved. Because even if there is no damage during the first year, there can be damage in the long term. Then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that it is apparently only rich people who benefit from the fact that money can be moved and traded across borders. So, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen comes just as I do from South Jutland, and that is why she is very familiar with the fact that there are also ordinary people who have low incomes who benefit from competition between two countries to offer the lowest tax burden and the lowest tax rates, namely all the people from South Jutland who cross the border to trade in Germany. In Denmark, there is cross-border trade for 12 billion. kr. A year, therefore, not in Denmark, but by Danes abroad. These are ordinary people, and I even believe that it is people with lower incomes who do so more. So it is for the benefit of everyone that there is free trade across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140722	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140724	I hope I don't have to understand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen's comments in that he compares some citizen who drives across the border and buys a box of beer and a box of soft drinks with a multinational company that hires some people in Denmark whose education the Danish tax system has paid for in a country where there is tax-paid childcare, where there is infrastructure and where there are a large number of goods that we in our social model have tax-financed. That way you don't contribute to the community. I hope not, sir. Ole Birk Olesen compares on that basis. Europe has not become rich because multinational companies have been able to move their money around the world. Europe has become rich because of good ideas and, in recent times, also because of a reasonable tax payment, which has been able to secure to varying degrees some welfare systems that could ensure that people were trained, had food on the plate and indeed also had purchasing power that allowed them to demand some other goods. This doesn't make any rich. It makes a tiny global elite rich. It does not make the rest of us or our society rich that you use a global system to move around your tax payments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140839	I recognize that it may be difficult to see when I stand up, but it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140850	The principle, when a citizen drives across the border from Denmark to Germany to trade beer, soft drinks, chocolate, sugar, spirits, tobacco, etc., is the same as when a company tries to set up a head office in a country other than Denmark and lead its profits to taxation. It is because you think it is too expensive to have your activity in Denmark and prefer the lower tax level abroad, and then you act accordingly. The principle is the same, the scale is just different. The citizen, who trades beer and cigarettes, etc., acts for less than the company moves, but the total amount for which the Danes trade in Germany and other countries amounts to 12 billion. kr. Then I would say in the end, if there is time, that ultimately one could just build a wall around Denmark and make sure that everyone stayed inside Denmark. Other countries have experimented with this, and the result is always the same: When citizens cannot opt out of their rulers, despotism begins.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127140948	That concludes Mr. Ole Birk Olesen his post. And we have come so far now that the time has come for the tax minister, if the tax minister will say anything. He wants to, I can see that. It is not because we are keeping the Conservative People's Party away from the platform, but I understand that they do not have the opportunity to be here. So we go straight to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127141015	I'm sorry, but I thought the Conservatives should be on too. This is how you can be surprised when you sit and expect one more party to come on the platform. But that's the way it is. I would just like to try to outline some things and sum up some of the points that have been raised in the debate on issues. First of all, a number of elements have been mentioned by the rapporteur for the questions from the SF, which I think should be answered. Among other things: The question of rules for limited companies has been raised, i.e. how to address the issue raised, among other things. in the Danish media, including the Børsen. I would like to point out that the government has, in its tax havens package, pointed out some of the specific elements of what we are going to be negotiating in the tax havens package that we are calling for negotiations on next week, if otherwise the rapporteurs' calendars allow. So that's where we're going to get things turned around in relation to that part of it. With regard to the comments on a circumvention clause, it is quite clear that the extremely interesting developments which have taken place recently in this area make the situation a great deal easier in relation to the work being done in a European context. And, of course, I must not fail to note that it was the case that, when SF was in the tax office, the Commission actually put forward its proposal for an anti-circumvention clause with regard to the parent/subsidiary directive. In this context, let me also point out that it is the Government's view that the double taxation agreement with Luxembourg provides the necessary protection against the flow of dividends through Luxembourg. In fact, both under the double taxation agreement and under the corporate tax law, it is not possible to include withholding tax if the recipient of the dividend is not a beneficial owner. And a Luxembourg holding company is not. It is clear, then, that the National Tax Court takes the view that this fact does not appear with sufficient clarity in the Corporate Tax Act. But the Ministry of Taxation does not agree with that, and among other things. Therefore, capital fund proceedings are pending before the courts. In addition, a more comprehensive anti-circumvention clause in the international area must be in line with EU law, and it is precisely for this reason that it is so gratifying that there is now agreement in ECOFIN that EU countries must introduce an anti-circumvention clause if they do not already have one. With an EU-adopted circumvention clause, we can be reasonably sure that we will not have problems with EU law when we introduce it. And as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party so rightly points out, it is indeed the case that the next ECOFIN meeting is on 9 December, that is to say in 12 days' time, and with the indications that have been from the countries, among others. The fact that Luxembourg is now supporting an international circumvention clause is a development which is very welcome. It also means that there is an expectation that it will be implemented, and it is in all possible ways, I think, gratifying. Then you can ask if we have time to do something by then. I'm sure I can make a cup of coffee in the ministry before then, but I think that's pretty much what we can do. However, as I have also indicated, it is my clear opinion that we should then immediately transpose this into Danish legislation. And if it falls into place on 9 December in ECOFIN, I think it is perfectly natural that we implement it in Danish legislation, at the same time and in parallel with implementing the other legislative initiatives presented by the government in its tax havens package. It is as fast as we can almost possibly do, and that is also what we can see that Parliament very, very much wants us to do in the proposal for adoption which is to be put to the vote. It must be on Tuesday if I am not mistaken that it will be put to the vote. I certainly appreciate that. The debate also raised the question of ATP's acquisition of shares in DONG. First of all, I have no reason to doubt that ATP will have to pay PAL tax on their investment in DONG Energy in exactly the same way as if an investment had been made directly in DONG Energy. That is what ATP has done, and that is also clear from today's article in Politiken, if I understand it correctly. We must, of course, maintain that the companies with which we enter into agreements must pay tax according to the applicable tax rules. The government supports the efforts of the EU and the OECD to push those countries such as the United States and Japan. Through secret tax agreements, harmful tax competition and, in some cases, tax evasion are also possible. In addition, if dividends are transferred via Luxembourg to tax havens without the Luxembourg company being the beneficial owner, the tax should be subject to withholding tax. SKAT is already running a number of cases in this respect, and the new anti-circumvention clause will also cover possible abuses not covered by the concept of legitimate owner. Something else that has been mentioned in the debate was what the rapporteur of the Left mentioned, namely the exchange of information as a very effective tool. I very much agree with that is quite, quite effective. During the course of the debate, one of the questions put to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also raised the question of banking secrecy, which is entirely related to this. And it has to be said that there has been a huge development, in which the United States, in particular, has gone ahead and, with their FATCA agreements, has put pressure on a number of countries that have previously refused to provide financial information. This is most welcome, and Denmark was one of the very first countries to conclude a FATCA agreement with the United States. I myself recently attended a signing ceremony in Berlin, where Denmark was also early adopter of the international agreement, which is generally about automatic exchange of financial information. It was a great and joyful experience to see that a number of the countries we normally consider tax havens also participated as early adopters. It is extremely positive that this effort is under way. I also think I should like to mention that Mr. Frank Aaen in his speech specifically asked whether the government would contribute to a hearing. I assume that this will be a hearing which will be held under the auspices of the Tax Committee, possibly with the participation of other relevant committees, and in this context I would like to say that the Ministry of Taxation would very much like to contribute professionally. I have not had the opportunity to have a dialogue with my colleague in the Ministry of Trade and Development, but it would be quite obvious that they also contributed. So I would at least like to say that we in the government are prepared to contribute professional input in relation to it, and I think, of course, like the questioner, that it is natural to look at both these elements together. That is an undertaking I would like to make here from the platform today. At the same time, I can easily follow Mr. Frank Aaen's mindset in relation to this is that you can be a little surprised who is actually willing to support the progressive effort. From my side, I see it not so much from a narrow Danish perspective, but more from the international perspective, and I think that just a few years ago, no one would have been able to predict the number of countries that are now progressive in this area and how far this area has moved in relation to positions. There are always philosophical arguments as to why we have arrived at this point. Then, for the sake of good order, I shall simply correct the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. The question that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen raised about the patent box, which is popularly known as it is, insofar as it concerns an area which the OECD and the EU are looking at as one of the areas which they consider to distort competition in cooperation and which we are not going to go into in detail here today. The question was also asked about EU tenders and what can be done there, and I must finally say, for the sake of good order, that it is of course the Minister for Industry and Growth who works in the area of supply. However, I have noted that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Growth, at EU level and in the context of EU procurement rules, will also examine the issues raised in relation to the Region of Southern Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142041	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There is one brief comment. It's from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142046	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. It is, of course, gratifying, as the tax minister also said, that there is apparently such a touching consensus in this Parliament that we must fight tax havens and we must have legislation to ensure that we do not have a Luxembourg case again. Of course, there is still a long way to go. Maybe we'll never be done because new tax holes keep popping up. It is easy enough for the parties minus the Liberal Alliance to adopt a text in the Folketing. Then there will have to be action afterwards, and I look forward to seeing that personally. I want to ask the tax minister something. Hopefully, within the European Union, we will have a redefining clause so that we cannot abuse some unfortunately legal holes to cheat on taxes. If we do not get it, could it be an opportunity to have a Danish circumvention clause, just as SF and S have done in a report contribution three years ago? That's when we said this is a good idea. If we do not reach agreement in the European Union in the foreseeable future, if, unfortunately, there is a danger that some people will step on the brakes again, could Denmark take the lead?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142211	I am very pleased, not least because of the pressure that has gone through, perhaps both the current case, which we have been around, but, in general, in relation to the efforts that have been made on the international scene, for there to be indications that Luxembourg too is voting in favour in ECOFIN on the issue of an international circumvention clause. It has been clear that it has been difficult when there have been countries which have, as it were, opposed to this work, but I find it very difficult to imagine a situation when we are now so far that even Luxembourg is in on it where it should not succeed. Therefore, allow me to assume it as a relatively hypothetical question. In any case, this is something that we know in 12 days' time. It can therefore be said that it is in any case a good thing that we have succeeded in setting up this question debate in such a way that it was possible to settle the issues before ECOFIN, otherwise we would not have had this discussion at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142330	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142332	After all, it will be a happy day on 9 December if we finally succeed in putting this in place. I look forward to that very much. I would also like to thank the Minister for Taxation for his efforts. Unfortunately, everything isn't fixed if we get this straight. That would be a very big step forward. There will be plenty of work for us politicians, and then we can be happy not to become unemployed unless the electorate wants to do otherwise. But there will of course be plenty of things that we will still have to see. That is why I have another question. In relation to the tax minister's very good proposals on transparency and the whole question of legitimate owners in relation to specific limited companies, could it be imagined that they could also be taxed? We can see that we have some problems with them because they are not subject to tax. What does the Minister think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142430	I think we should negotiate the individual elements of the government's tax havens, and I expect that we will start negotiations next week. I would also like to say that I agree with the questioner that 9 December will be a day of joy. Personally, it is a day of joy, both because there is ECOFIN that day and because my older brother is having a birthday, so it is in many ways a great day. But I also agree with another element, namely that we should not then think that everything is just like the end. On the contrary, it just means that we are about to introduce some more Danish legislation, and then it is the case with legislation at all that we must then expect some processes to come in relation to it. And, as I have said, we are basically in agreement that these flow companies are not acting in the right way, and there are a number of legal cases going on, so we must also expect a number of legal proceedings to be carried out subsequently and thus to clarify what is to take place, so it may take years before we can put a dent in the fact that it is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142534	There are a few more brief comments. The first one of the next is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142539	I understand from the government and the tax minister that you are opposed to companies operating from tax havens, and then I just want to know if the tax minister can't refresh our memory: why was it such a great idea that parts of DONG were sold to companies that just operate from tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142600	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142602	As a matter of principle, I am concerned that tax havens should not be tax havens any longer, since the whole point of the work we are doing must be that we should avoid tax evasion, especially tax evasion, which might be carried out on a legitimate basis. In principle, however, I must also stress that I believe that a flow-through company in Luxembourg qua the things I have already mentioned is something that will make it impossible to get rid of taxation in the end. I think it is just worth making it clear that this is a matter for a number of large multinational companies which have not been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142657	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142659	I think that the tax minister did not come up with a good idea to sell parts of DONG to a company in tax havens, but it might be possible to follow that up in the second round. However, while the debate was going on and we were some who were trying to stop it, the Minister of Finance did a lot to say that this was simply the best thing for Denmark. I would like to know whether the Minister of Taxation still stands by saying that it was best for Denmark that parts of DONG were sold to a company in tax havens, when you are now standing and saying that you are actually opposed to companies in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142727	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142728	What I am saying is that I am concerned with ensuring that countries are no longer tax havens. That is actually the point, and it is the international movement that is in progress. The debate on the sale of DONG or the expansion of the share capital of DONG has filled a great deal, and what I am particularly concerned with is, of course, the part about us preventing this discussion on the flow of money in certain countries from becoming tax evasion. Well, that's what specific cases are all about. As I mentioned, it is approx. 18 billion I hope that this will be settled soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142818	Then there is one more brief comment. It's from sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142821	I asked a question to which I did not hear any answer: whether it is possible for municipalities and regions to impose the requirement on the companies they trade with and receive services from the fact that those companies are not located in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142848	It may be that I did not make myself clear enough, but that was where I referred to the fact that this lies in the procurement rules that are being dealt with by my colleague, the Minister for Business and Growth. What I understand is that the Minister for Business and Growth has stated that he will examine this issue further and discuss it at EU level in the context of EU procurement rules in addition. And I understand that is something he has mentioned in relation to the specific article that has been on that issue. I have not, in fact, presented the precise wording of this, so I quote the article in question out of my memory, but at least it goes in the sense that it is a matter that the Minister for Industry and Growth has indicated that he will look into.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142938	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127142939	Then I would like to clarify my question. Because there was a discussion about whether you should be allowed in Aarhus to demand fair trade in procurement, for example, and you were allowed to do so. That is why I really thought it was quite simple to answer without referring to the European Union, namely that, in carrying out its task as a responsible municipality, a municipality must, of course, require companies to pay tax if they are to be able to trade with that municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127143011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127143012	In any case, I must stress that the rules on tendering do not fall within the discretion of the Minister for Taxation. However, I can remember so much from working with the area that it is certainly the case that companies which have been convicted of tax offences or who are liable to tax have to be excluded from certain areas. But the discussion will also necessarily have to do with how to define a tax havens country and, above all, the construction of such a character in a country. And, as I have said before, what I am concerned about is above all that we prevent countries from being defined as tax havens and reduce their number. That is why, of course, it is also gratifying that there are countries like this. Luxembourg, which has now gone from being opposed to, for example, circumvention clauses to being in favour of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127143109	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. As far as I can see, no one else has asked for the floor, and that means that the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 2 December 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20141127143128	That then leads to there being nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 28 November 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
