ParlaMint-DK_20141112130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Henrik Dam Kristensen): Bill no. L 58 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment, the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) and various other laws. Bill No. L 59 (Proposal for a law on the organisation and support of employment, etc.)), Bill No. L 60 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law prohibiting discrimination on the labour market, etc.) Bill No. L 61 (Proposal for a law amending the Aliens Act, the Integration Act and the Central Register of Persons). Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs (Manu Sareen): Bill No. L 62 (Proposal for a law amending the daily offer law, law on individual housing aid, law on social pensions and law on the highest, middle, increased general and ordinary early retirement, etc.) Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 63 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on withholding tax. Bill No. L 64 (Proposal for a Law amending the Chocolate Tax Act, the Law on the Tax of Salaries, etc., the VAT Act, the Law on the Tax of Natural Gas and Urban Gas, the Spirit Tax Act and various other laws. Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen): Bill no. L 65 (Proposal for a law amending the law on open education (vocational adult education) etc. and the Law on initial and continuing vocational training (the continuing training system) for adults. Bill No. L 66 (Proposal for a Law amending the University Law and various other laws. Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 67 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on a Travel Guarantee Fund. Transport Minister (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 68 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on a Cityring and the Law on the Metro Company I/S and the Development Company City & Port I/S. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following Bjarne Corydon resolutions: Β 24 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the system of the European Union's own resources). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130203	The first question is to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130214	The question is: Following Question Time on 5 November 2014, when the Minister explained that it was not possible for the Socialists to honour the promise of an extra 12 billion. kr. to the municipalities, due to the policy pursued by the government of the VK, why does it appear from the government base that the starting point of the government is the economic policy of the government of the VK in the broadest sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130236	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130238	Thank you very much. It is always a pleasure when others help you to interpret what you have said so as to avoid it yourself. However, one cannot always be quite sure that the interpretation is quite precise, especially when it is one's political opponents who take on the task. What I said when we had a similar debate here a week ago was that there are several reasons why the policy has been conducted as it has been conducted over the last three years. One reason is very clear that the economic situation after the change of government was far more serious than was expressed by the government we replaced. I don't think there can be much doubt about that. I should like to look at the exact situation. Another reason is that, both in the election campaign and in the government base and in the economic policy that we have pursued, we have always laid the foundations for a precautionary principle, made very clear, contrary to all this talk of promises, that nothing could be achieved without funding, and that a very important contribution to funding could have been a tripartite agreement which was then not prepared to be concluded by the parties sitting at the table, and of course we cannot use the money either. That is how we conduct a responsible economic policy. But if we bear this in mind, on the one hand, the continuation of the economic policy of the VK government and, on the other hand, the situation which turned out to be somewhat different from that expressed, particularly by the then Prime Minister, I think that everyone knows that the VK government went to the polls on a statement that now there were two lines under the heading and that Denmark was out of the economic crisis. Both proved to be completely wrong. After the change of government, we carried out a check-up which revealed that there were not two lines below the line when it came to economic policy in Denmark, and we have also been able to see that the fact that we were out of the crisis was a completely wrong assessment, unfortunately. That is why we have had to deal with a whole series of difficult solutions, and they have, after all, put themselves on top of, or joined, what was done by the VK government, and that is what is being referred to. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130439	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130441	Thank you for that answer. I am glad that the Minister has come here today, and he must of course do so, even though I know that he is busy at the moment in going to penance and handing out some soup to the various areas; after tightening up in the spring and making a strict economic policy towards the municipalities, you will now come here in the autumn and hand out gentle gifts, and yet the Minister takes the time to come over here today. I think that's really nice. But I have to understand the answer that it was not the policy of the VK government that was the problem, but that it was more the assessment made by the Minister of Finance, when he was in opposition, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, that was wrong, so that it was the assessment that was wrong and not the policy that was wrong. That's how I have to understand it. Because I assume that we can agree that at the time when the government changed, back in 2011, there was a situation where we had net worth, the debt was gone, we had what was called an AAA rating, that is, that the international agencies then, as they still do, considered that the Danish economy was at the top among the very few countries in the world where it was in force and in force, and where we were in a situation where also the Danish business climate and investment climate of the various international institutes, the World Economic Forum, and what they are all called together were rated as being among the absolute best in the world. That was the situation in the economic and political spheres, and that was what was, as it were, taken over by the current government, and then it is said that we were looking in the box and the assessment was completely wrong. So I understand that the reason why you have not been able to live up to the promise that you clearly made in your paper, entitled 'Fair solution', was that you would increase the services of the municipalities by 12 billion. kr., is not that the policy of the government of the VK was wrong because it has been chosen to continue, we must understand from the government base but that it was the assessment that was made of the situation at that time. Is that how I should understand the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130636	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130638	No, that's not how it was supposed to be understood, unfortunately, actually in no way whatsoever. There was a great deal wrong with the way economic policy was conducted under the government of the VK and not just the completely erroneous assessment of the situation and the attempt to win the elections. We took over an economy which was in the situation that it looked very nice on the surface, but of course it was bad when you got a closer look. I think I had it described as a craftsman's offer, and I think that was actually very appropriate. I also believe that many experts have had the same assessment of the economic policy of the VK government. Productivity lagged behind other countries, competitiveness had deteriorated by 25%. over a long period of time. We had the benefit of getting this whole thing under control with public finances. There was a lot to do. It is still gone, but fortunately it has gone in the right direction. With regard to the AAA rating, it was the chairman of the Folketing who at the time settled the matter, and then you had the pleasure of it while you ruled the country through the '00s. But I believe that the bourgeois bloc must be very careful to take credit for that profit itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130741	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130742	I really don't want to make any profit at all. I would simply like to see what kind of situation was the starting point for the taking over of power by the present government. That's just what I'm trying to ask. The government has not done so, and I do not hear the Minister denying that he was able to live up to the clear wish and promise, which is probably both of them, to give 12 billion. kr. more to the municipalities and thus increase welfare. We all remember slogans about welfare or tax relief. Now they say that we cannot live up to this because of the policy that had been pursued. So it was not the policy itself, because one has to understand that it is the one that is continuing the assessment that was wrong. I would ask the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130826	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130826-2	After all, it was economic policy under the leadership of ten years of civil society that had led the country into a situation where there were very serious problems with some fairly fundamental things in our economy, that is, our competitiveness, our productivity, our ability to create private jobs and also, to a certain extent, our public finances. You can't avoid it being that way. In other words, if you follow the professional economic debate in Denmark, you can see that there is no great admiration for the way in which economic policy was managed during that period either in terms of controlling fiscal policy. After all, the economy was overheated massively, which the rest of us had to clean up afterwards. If someone took over something that was really healthy, and then conjured it up, then it must be the VK government, in relation to what Lykketoft and Nyrup had done in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130912	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130913	The minister talks about the economy being overheated and letting it run out of control. So I just have to ask quite quietly here at the end: what were the proposals to tighten up the economy that the then opposition, led by the Socialists at that time, came up with? In other words, there were some proposals which, like the Socialists, were inspired by the then VK government, which said that do not spend so much money, hold back a little and spend a little less money; we must put a little aside for bad times. Were there any suggestions? If so, I would like to know whether the Minister for Finance could perhaps reveal today what proposals they were that could be inspired by forward-looking ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130950	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112130951	I think you may need a lot of forward-looking inspiration, and then we must hope that it will be in the opposition that you can cultivate that inspiration. In fact, the then opposition leader, the current Prime Minister, drew attention to a concern about the beginning of the overheating of the economy. And, of course, it was swept completely aside by the then Prime Minister, who had set two lines under the heading and led Denmark out of the crisis. Right to the end, that is to say, on this matter of promises, I would like to say and I think the questioner was actually right, it was probably a mistake that there were a number of proposals and wishes, and then there was a precautionary principle that these things could be implemented when they were financed. That was quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131028	The question is over. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131036	It's on the same street. I read out the question: What is the reason why the government has not fulfilled the promise given in Fair Solution, about an extra 12 billion? kr. in economic space for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131048	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131049	It may be me, it is wrong with that, but I should be very wrong if it is not about exactly the same question that we raised last week. I think that is cozy and fine, we can also take it next week, and we have actually discussed it just before the question we are now taking. But basically it has to be said that economic policy under this government and also the economic policy on which the Social Democratic Party was elected is subject to a precautionary principle. You have to get the funding in place before you spend money on, among other things. welfare, including municipal welfare. A tripartite agreement was planned which would have provided a more comprehensive framework than we have had. You couldn't get through with that. Then, of course, there is a consequence: if you are responsible, you cannot spend as much money as you could have done in the event of a tripartite agreement. It has to be said, then, that after we had carried out a cash check on the economic policy that we took over, it was clear that there was just no coherence in what was said about it and what was real. We must also bear in mind the consequences of this when it comes to pursuing a responsible economic policy. Then it has to be said that things have been sorted out. We now have a sustainable economic policy in Denmark. By the way, we have got a much healthier framework for pursuing economic policy with a budget law, and that means that in future there will be fully funded advice to strengthen our community, strengthen our well-being. This can also be seen in concrete terms in these days of partial agreements on the Finance Act. This is the exciting discussion in Danish politics: is this the way we should go, in other words responsible, growth-oriented and with advice for better welfare? Or is it something else, with zero growth, which the author's party stands for and, of course, in a way in which we cannot get any precise explanation of how we intend to manage it in practice? I think that's exciting. I would be happy to discuss that on Wednesday after Wednesday, regardless of what is the entrance to it, if you may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131238	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131240	Well, I appreciate that. I just need to get it right. What was put forward before the elections were some wishes, some proposals, but that was not a promise. Is that how I was supposed to understand it? What is like in the presentation that was put to the polls in 2011 were some wishes and some proposals, but these were not promises that could be expected. That's one thing. Then the Minister for Finance says that there was a difference between what was said and what was real. Then what was said? Was this the one with the two lines below, but that the reality was something else? That is what I must constantly try to understand. Because I can only see that the reality, as I mentioned in the previous question, was that the debt was gone. We were ranked top among the few countries in the world with the absolute best economy. We had a business climate and an investment climate that had been judged to be at the top when compared to what else happened around the world. Yes, there was an international economic crisis that has lasted a number of years, but that was the situation. So I do not quite know how to keep saying that there was a difference between what was said and what was real. I would just like to ask: when you say again that you could not live up to your promise, because it now had to be sorted out and now there had to be tightening up, where were the proposals? I just heard the Minister of Finance say that the Prime Minister had also been out to say that the economy was overheated and that it was running out of control, but I have not yet heard a single concrete proposal, to which the Minister of Finance can refer, from the Social Democratic Party, which wanted to tighten up economic policy before coming to government not one. However, I would like to give the Minister for Finance another opportunity: could the Minister for Finance mention a single proposal in which, before the 2011 elections, the Social Democrats asked the then VK government to tighten up the economy, hold back and not spend so much money?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131427	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131428	In fact, I think this is developing in an excellent and interesting direction. It seems that the questioner is about to recognise that what has been shouted about in relation to promises and promises for some three years now does not really match the fact that there was a precautionary principle both before the elections and after the elections, and indeed at the present time. This is a precautionary principle which was quite generally applicable to the conduct of economic policy in Denmark and which we have enjoyed very much. Then I sense such an intellectual interest in the questioner for the weaknesses of the author's own party in relation to economic policy. And they're obvious! The check-out showed that there were not two lines below the score, and thus it was that Denmark was out of the crisis, wrong. Denmark had also lost ground relative to other countries, i.e. not only due to a general crisis, but also in relation to the countries we compete with competitiveness had deteriorated by approx. 25% Over a long period of time, productivity lagged behind the countries with which we competed. This was a major problem which we are now, fortunately, in the process of correcting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131530	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131531	That is why it has not been possible to live up to its promise that the service framework of the municipalities would be increased by 12 billion. kr. Because I have not quite understood yet whether it was said to the municipalities that they could count on this, that they could count on additional 12 billion kroner's room for manoeuvre if you came to power. I think that is how the municipalities perceived it, and I think that is how the citizens perceived it, but that is not how they should have understood it. May I ask: should the things you now go around saying, namely that you want to increase public budgets again by 0.6%, be understood in the same way? Is it also to be understood that this is just a wish, but not something you can really count on if it is the case that the government is re-elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131611	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131613	Well, actually, I have respect for the questioner. I think we are at the high end of the spectrum of left-wing questioners here, and I sense a real intellectual interest in getting acquainted with these things. There is a precautionary principle with all the way through, and that means that this debate about breaches of the law is very fine when you come from the Left, but the reality is that we have said all the way through that funding must of course be in place first. It is clear that if you cannot make a tripartite agreement, there is a price to pay, in that you cannot spend the money you do not want to get it is very clear all the way through. In relation to the deep problems of the foreign policy of the government of the VK, they were linked to the fact that the country gradually lost ground, not only absolutely in relation to an economic crisis that hit all countries, but also relative. And that is something that should be reflected in the Left in relation to the proposals that are being put forward, in order to possibly take on responsibility again. I just have to say that they are completely unclear to me. Well, I don't know what they're all about. I think we will have a thorough debate on this in the run-up to the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131717	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131719	I'll start by signing for the positive mention of yours, I can just send it back. But when the Minister for Finance says at the end that the economic policy of the government of the VK had deep problems, it is only that I ask quite quietly: why is it then that the current government, in its government base, writes that the economic policy of the government of the VK is being pursued in the broadest sense, i.e. if it is believed to have deep problems? I am somewhat puzzled, but I would ask the Minister of Finance to answer that in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131747	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131748	Well, it's super simple, it has the character of the finding: well, we started where others left off. It's very, very simple. I am sorry, but there is no deep recognition buried in that. We grabbed where others left off. Our work has been very much aimed at correcting the problems created by the VK government. But now we're on the right track. Thus, competitiveness has again improved, even quite strongly; productivity is on the way up, even quite strongly; public finances have been managed to an overwhelming extent; we have been given a better framework for managing economic policy in Denmark than has been so far; we are investing more in generating growth; we are investing more in education. It is moving in the right direction. So there is no reason to change it after a parliamentary election. And if we could agree on that, we would have come a very long way during today's Question Time, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131838	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Finance. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131859	Thank you for that, President. The question is simple: Does the Minister of Justice think that it is reasonable that the police do not investigate burglary to less than DKK 100,000??
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131911	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131913	No, I don't think the sweet porridge is. Of course, it would in no way be reasonable for the Danish police not to investigate burglary because of the value of what has been stolen at the time of the break-in. So the answer is, of course, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131932	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112131936	My question is motivated by an article in the Berlingske News Agency from 7 October • I quote from the article a reply from the then Minister of Justice, Karen Hækkerup: "Copenhagen Police has also stated that, in practice, in the area of enrichment notifications, there is an unwritten indicative limit of DKK 100,000, which in some situations has an impact on how notifications received are handled. What the then Minister for Justice said was that the police informed her that they simply do not investigate burglary in private homes and cars and other enrichment crimes, unless the amount exceeds DKK 100,000. I think that a lot of Danes have thought to themselves: that can't be right. And I am glad to hear that the new Minister of Justice has a different attitude. But one thing is that the Minister for Justice says it is not fair; another thing is, if we can be sure that the police are also putting her words into practice? Because the answer that has come from the police circles shows that there is quite a different practice, which is perhaps not really politically appropriate or politically determined. I actually think that the Minister for Justice, apart from of course confirming that it is not reasonable for a break-in to be investigated for less than DKK 100,000. When I mention this, it is also due to the fact that the government has spent a great deal of calories on making Danes more traffic criminals next year, and it is true that when you use many calories to print traffic tickets, there may be fewer resources left to investigate burglary. If it is up to me, I would actually rather have the citizens experience a sensible form of legal certainty, because if there is a home invasion or a car, you can be sure that the police take it seriously, rather than spending more resources on speeding up. I hope, of course, that the Minister for Justice will agree with me on this and that she will take the necessary steps to ensure that police circles are also aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132121	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132123	After all, a great many things were said by the questioner, but I would like to make it clear, as Minister of Justice, that I expect the Danish police to be present on the streets and alleys, where there may be Danes driving too fast, having alcohol in their blood or doing other violations of the traffic code. In the same way, I have a clear expectation that the police are of course present and are investigating to the extent that it is possible for Danes to be subjected to a break-in in their own homes, which I believe can be an insulting, cross-border and objectionable event. It is important for me to say that the discussion that has taken place regarding the DKK 100,000 must not, of course, be about whether or not the police are serious about breaking and entering, nor whether or not we should try to investigate the cases. I know that, as a starting point, there is a search process at the Copenhagen Police Department, where some break-ins, where the stolen is of very high value, go to a special department. But this is a different discussion, because of course burglary must be dealt with in the same way, regardless of whether it is a private home or, for example, large artefacts or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132230	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132231	So the consensus is spreading in this Chamber, and I am delighted to hear that. I was actually a little worried about the question today, because it has taken the Ministry of Justice over a month to answer a very simple Article 20 question. I am in favour of the change of minister, but my question was asked at the beginning of October, and it is only yesterday, in fact, that I have received a written reply, which I find totally unacceptable. My question now is: when I go up in a moment and ask the Ministry of Justice a question about whether the rate of break-in is different, depending on whether the value is more than DKK 100,000. or less than DKK 100,000, will the Minister of Justice be able to say now that the Minister of Justice expects the level of clarification to be the same in the two cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132309	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132314	I am not in a position to answer that on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132317	Does the Minister of Justice hope that the clearing rates are the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132319	Well, my job as Minister of Justice is neither to hope nor to believe. It is to carry out my duties as Minister of Justice, including doing everything I can to ensure that we have a Danish police that works as well as possible, including in the field of investigation. But when you are asked quite specifically about degrees and percentages in relation to the investigation, I have to be able to go back and look at the numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132342	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132353	Thank you. Does the Minister think that there is a need to tighten up the situation with regard to refugees, many of whom are refugees of convenience who obtain asylum by claiming that they are individually persecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132403	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132405	I do not really know whether the questioner here has a knowledge which the rest of Denmark does not have, when one can so be sure that many of those who come to Denmark are refugees of convenience. I certainly do not have any knowledge to support that view. Let me just start with what I think we should be doing in the area of refugees right now: I do not think people are fleeing for fun. We have a Middle East on fire. The UN estimates that there are the highest number of refugees since World War II. We see every day when we open up our media, attacks on civilian populations both in Syria and in Iraq, and this has thrown millions of people on the run. I don't think anyone's running for fun. On the contrary, I believe that the debate on both asylum and refugee issues in Denmark must be based on the fact that we have a real, really serious and otherwise unsustainable humanitarian situation, and that is what creates a lot of flows of refugees. The vast majority of the people who are fleeing the Middle East right now are fleeing to nearby areas. A smaller proportion will come to Europe. It is a task we can and must handle, but of course we have to do it in a way so that Denmark can keep up and we can subsequently make integration work. That is why the government is proposing to tighten up on asylum so that more work can be done on a concept of temporary protection so that more refugees can return when conditions in their country of origin make this necessary. But the basic premise that we should have a lot of refugees of convenience is not a knowledge that I have in my possession. I would very much like to hear if the questioner from the Danish People's Party knows something that the rest of Denmark does not seem to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132551	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132552	I don't think anyone's coming up here for fun either. But it is well known that those who come up here are the ones who can afford to pay a smuggler to come up here. So, those who feel the worst, those who do not have the opportunity to pay a smuggler to come to Denmark, are still sitting away in the vicinity, and we do not help them, we do not know that we are giving people the opportunity to come to Denmark. I certainly hope we agree on that. Then you also have several other places, among others. in the Short Avis, read the headline: "The newspaper of the Police Association sounds the alarm about the influx of Syrians: Many "are not refugees at all. " The article goes on to say: "According to the centrally placed sources in the police, with which the Danish Police Service, published by the Police Association, has spoken, there are often regular fraudsters who see a chance of accessing the attractive Danish welfare system. But it is Syrians who have lived outside Syria for many years. I meet families whose children go to the University of Istanbul and who have lived outside Syria for perhaps eight years or more," says a source who has worked with the area of foreigners since the year 2000. The Danish police's trade paper, of course, is police sources, and so at some point some of this must have arrived or must reach the minister's table, otherwise I would urge the Minister to make sure that you pay extra attention when dealing with asylum applications for people coming from Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132715	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132717	So, I would say that if the Danish police are in possession of information of that nature, then it is strange that the Minister of Justice is not brought to the attention of the Minister of Justice. It goes without saying that we must only help people who are on the run and who have a real need for protection. If anyone chooses to take advantage of the situation that is so difficult right now for millions of people to benefit themselves on a basis that is not correct, we must of course have the necessary control mechanisms in our asylum system to discover it. It's an authority's responsibility. I would not dream of taking the view that there are people who should have asylum in Denmark if they do not need it, but if it is true, as the questioner says, that the Danish police are of the opinion that there is a lot of fraud in this area, then you must hurry to pass on that information so that it is possible for the authorities to react to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132810	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132811	I would also like to read from an article from www.danskpolitik.dk, which is the Police Union's trade paper, which is from 23 September of this year.The previous article was from the Short Avis and now I quote from the article: "Politik sources from Center Sandholm and Frontex work at the external borders also tell us that, unfortunately, real refugees very rarely reach as far as this. The war in Syria, and Scandinavia's desire to help the victims, are exploited by Syrians who have lived outside Syria for many years. ▪ Further down in the article it says that the false asylum seekers have been recruited by agents from human smuggling organisations. They are thus offered false documents, transport and advice against a large sum in dollars or euros. It's just to say that when you hear it from several different sides, maybe there's something about the talk. And if we know that, because we know that; it is well documented that those who come up here are, of course, people who can afford to pay a smuggler to come up here, then my question is whether the minister really does not think that our asylum system is basically arranged in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132911	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112132912	Well, there is no reason to be naive in the area of asylum, understood that it is quite obvious, I think, that there is an infrastructure behind the refugee flows that we see, where there are people smugglers who are very well organised and who earn a great deal of money from helping people who are often in a difficult situation. I wouldn't deny that people are coming here on the wrong basis. I don't have any prerequisites for assessing that, but what I'm saying is that if the police out there observe it, it's strange that you don't provide me with that information. That is the one thing I would like to say. The second thing I would like to warn you about is that you draw the conclusion that we then have a lot of refugees of convenience, because I do not know how the questioner has the opportunity to assess it. We have an asylum system which, of course, must contain the necessary control mechanisms, and I assume that the authorities, whether it is entirely in the practical context, for example in the reception of refugees, or it is the authorities in the Foreign Affairs Council and elsewhere, are also sure that only people who have a real need will actually be granted asylum in Denmark. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133024	Martin Henriksen for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133027	So let us address those who come here and say that they are individually persecuted, and that is what the question is about. There is, of course, a rather strange way of doing this, and I am not sure that if we were to reinvent the asylum system today, we would do it this way. For the majority of Syrians who come to Denmark and those who, moreover, generally come here and receive asylum, are given asylum because they have an explanation that they are individually persecuted. And it is quite possible that they have been in their homeland. But when they leave, for example. Syria and has come to, for example, Syria. Jordan or somewhere else, they have got away from the war from which they have fled, or from the groups that were after them, and to a safe place, and then travel through many safe countries before they come to Denmark. There is no one who persecutes them on their way through those countries, there is no such thing, and therefore it is a little strange that they can come to Denmark and then claim that they are individually persecuted, in that they are not, so to speak, persecuted all the way to Denmark. That is why the system is basically constructed in a strange way, because those who are really persecuted are precisely in the vicinity, and that is why my question to the Minister for Justice, as I also started by saying: does the Minister not basically believe that the system is designed in a strange way? And is there not therefore a need for us to redeploy the asylum system?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133135	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133137	Fortunately, we are now living in a democracy, I was going to say, so it is neither the questioner nor myself, as minister, who sits and judges the individual asylum case, but the competent authorities. And it is probably very good that this is the case, as is the case in a number of other vital areas of society. It is clear that the authorities responsible here for the transfer pricing should also be responsible for ensuring that, when it comes to the information underlying the asylum basis on which a residence permit can be obtained in Denmark, this is done correctly. It is an authority's responsibility, and I believe that this is the basis for living up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133217	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133228	Thank you. This is what it says: what is the Minister's position that it takes 433 days, on average, from a criminal act being reported until the perpetrator begins to atone for his sentence?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133244	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133246	I think it is quite obvious that all the points in the legal field must make an extremely great effort to ensure that there is neither a long duration of proceedings nor a long waiting period. I think it is basically the case that, when you are the victim of a crime, you would of course also very much like to see the penalty and the penalty that a perpetrator should have applied as quickly as possible. I think that a 433-day processing period is long, I also think it is too long, and that is also true in some of the areas where the Folketing has decided that there should be very short waiting times. So this is clearly an area we need to continue working on. Having said that, the questioner knows very well that in some areas of crime at least there will often be a rather long period of investigation because it can simply be difficult to identify what has happened. So I think that if you are going to have a qualified discussion, you might have to crack down on some of the individual forms of crime and discuss: what can we live with by waiting? But basically, I have to say that my starting point is that the long waiting times must be reduced. How quickly and efficiently it can be done, I would also very much like to discuss with the Danish Parliament's parties. And, of course, we must remember that legal certainty must be present along the way in often complicated cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133422	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133423	Thanks for the answers. I actually hear the Minister say that the Minister and the government agree that it is too long for the 433 days that go by before the punishment for crime takes place. It is therefore over a year that, on average, a criminal act takes place and is reported until a sentence can begin. That is simply not good enough. This was something that was discussed last week in the public debate. The state auditors have made a report showing this very long wait. But the fact is that this is an old problem that has existed for a very long time. I just took a look back right before this Question Time on what has previously been given to the Danish Parliament about processing times, and it is unfortunately disgraceful to see how long it takes for a case to be reported to the judicial system, that is to say to the police, until serving can take place. If we now agree that this is a problem and that the service, punishment and judicial action must be carried out promptly after a criminal offence has been committed and who is deemed guilty has been identified, I would ask the Minister if he has a vision to reduce the average length of proceedings. Are there any action plans in the Ministry on how the Ministry is going to achieve a faster processing time? It must surely be in the interests of all of us that we should create a situation in which the cases that have to pass through the judicial system go much faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133616	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133618	I think it is important, before we get this far, to have some more nuances on the matter, because if you look at the areas that have the longest average length of proceedings, the types of proceedings that are often very complicated are concerned. It can, for example, be done. be financial crime, and it can also be arson, vice cases, killings. There are, after all, some of the cases that are going to take a long time because you cannot immediately uncover what has actually happened. It can be said that the whole question of investigation has to be taken into account. I would also like to say that when the Court of Justice's Board of Justice made the annual report of violence for 2012, it was estimated that the choice of a defender is the most common reason why proceedings in the city courts are dragging on, because at least there are a number of defendants in the courts who want certain defenders to represent them. So I think we need to get some of this information out and bring out the nuances. The aim must, of course, be as short a processing time as possible, but it is probably important that we get all the different elements on the table so that we can see where it is that we can make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133725	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133726	Of course, I fully agree that there are differences between these matters. Some are dragging on for a very long time. Of course, this is in the direction of an average lengthening of the processing time, and then there are some cases that are being clarified more quickly. But it must also be said that if you look down through things you can, for example. the arms cases and the cases of violence, and here it is also the case that the figure is on average at a very high level. It's between 287 days and 388 days, depending on what cases you're looking at. It is such a long time for the victims to wait for matters to be clarified, where they are reminded of the things they have been subjected to, that it requires action. That is why I asked, and I hope that the Minister will reply to it, whether there is a vision in the Ministry of how far down you can go in the process and whether you will also look at the individual parts of this, i.e. the police, the courts and the criminal services, because that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133825	Well, I have to say that I myself need as yet relatively new Minister of Justice to dig into what exactly delays and in what areas. There are crimes that take longer to investigate than others, and we probably won't be able to do much about that. But, on the other hand, there may be other elements in which we can organize the work in a wiser way. So I need to dive into what it is that exactly delays and in what areas. Then I would very much like to have a discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties on how we can politically support the reduction of this processing time. For, of course, it means something to the victims, not least for personal crime, or where there are violations, whether the perpetrator is being held up on his responsibilities and subsequently sanctioned, and how long it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133920	Sir. Peter Skaarup, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112133922	I think it would be good if the Minister could take a closer look. What I am a little interested in is a more concrete guarantee that we will have a plan for how to bring down these processing times. I am aware that the Minister is new, but there has been a Social Democrat sitting in the Ministry of Justice for three years now, and it is surely not forbidden to talk. There is also, I hope, a line in what a ministry is doing in relation to these things, where hopefully it is also pushing for shorter processing times. So I hope that the Minister will give an undertaking that a plan for this will be drawn up for the benefit of the citizens, so that we avoid these very, very long processing times.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134004	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134005	However, as the questioner said earlier in one of his questions, unfortunately this is not a new issue. It is well known over a long period of time. But that should not prevent us from discovering whether we cannot do better and wiser, not least for the sake of the victims of crime in Denmark. I need to piece together the various elements and get an overview of it, and then I would very much like to discuss it with the parties of the Folketing, because I think that we should have a common interest, not least for the sake of the victims, in reducing the long processing time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134034	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, by Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134045	Thank you, Mr President. My question is as follows: what is the Minister's position on the fact that, at present, there are more than 300 requests for derogations in respect of citizenship, which are mainly requested for exemption from language requirements and that almost all derogations are granted?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134110	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134111	One might ask whether I am the right person to ask the question because, as the questioner knows, it is only up to the Committee on the Rights of Citizens of the European Parliament to decide whether an application for a derogation can be granted in this area. I am not the minister who makes the decision; it is a parliamentary committee. And how the members of the committee deal with each of the cases presented, I cannot and should not have a position as Minister of Justice on that, and I think the questioner really knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134148	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134149	That was a very short answer, one might say. The reason why I am asking is that I hope the Minister will agree with me that the most important way to integrate is for the language to be understood, for the culture of the country to be understood, but at least for the language to be spoken. I think it is very alarming that we in the Committee on the Rights of the Child have a cardboard box parked every week full of dispensation cases, which then dispense with the language requirements, which means that the people concerned will never learn the Danish language. I think this is problematic in relation to these applicants, and I also think it is problematic in relation to the future. The reason why I am asking is also that I have the feeling that, when a derogation is granted, it usually happens on the basis of the diagnosis of ptsd, that is post-traumatic stress syndrome, and I do not feel convinced, firstly, that one cannot learn language if one has that diagnosis, and secondly, I think it is striking that, because there is a derogation in relation to that diagnosis, the number of exemption applications has exploded. I would just like to ask the Minister to address this problem, because I think there is a serious problem if it is the case that the people who become citizens of Denmark do not know the Danish language. Of course, people who are sick must help, but we must not necessarily give them citizenship. So that is the fundamental issue that I would ask the Minister to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134359	So my starting point is very, very clear. I think it is an extremely important part of being integrated into Denmark, that you can get the Danish language, that you get it right and that you can use it. I do so for many reasons, if only for the very practical, that it is actually really difficult to practice a citizenship in Denmark if you do not speak Danish, because we are as small a language tribe as we are, and because it is Danish that is so sovereign is the common language we use. So it is very difficult to attend parent meetings, it is difficult to write letters of reading, it is difficult to be part of the public space if you do not speak Danish. So I think that you clearly have an obligation to do everything you can to learn when you come here. But when it comes to the specific derogations in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, it is of course a matter for the committee, and that is why we should take the discussion there, because it is a parliamentary committee in which the questioner himself is a member. I think it is a very good practice to respect the division of labour between Parliament and the government, and that is why we are voting in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134501	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134504	Yes, I agree with that, and I can then say that the derogations granted are not granted with our good will, but with the majority that the government has. I would just ask the Minister to deal with the fundamental problem of people with ptsd, or who have at least been diagnosed with ptsd, apparently at the moment without further ado. I find that extremely problematic. I'm not saying you shouldn't help these people. I am just saying that citizenship must not be just distributed, and I also think that it is absolutely essential if citizenship is to make sense at all, that people can speak, and that is what I am asking the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134555	But the starting point for gaining access to Danish citizenship is, of course, that you possess, at least to a certain level, Danish knowledge. That is the starting point. What we are discussing here is to what extent a parliamentary committee chooses to dispense with the basic requirements. I think that this should be discussed in committee if the questioner thinks that a practice is being formed which is neither wise nor sensible. My starting point remains the same. I think it is perfectly natural to make every effort to learn the Danish language if you intend to live in Denmark because it is very, very difficult both to carry out your duties, which I think is one of the most important things in a society, but also to pay attention to your rights. But with regard to the way in which the committee works, I think it is a matter for the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134640	Sir. Christian Langballe, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134644	That's okay, but then I could ask the Minister a question instead. Does the Minister think that, on the basis of the information I have given here, there is reason to look at it, in other words the whole way it works, the way in which the diagnosis is made? I can see that soldiers with ptsd have to get a medical opinion if they are to be compensated, but the people who are granted a dispensation here can get it from a general practitioner, which I think is unequal to any other equal relationship, even when it comes to something as important as citizenship. So I just think it might be that it gave rise to some reflection by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134737	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134741	If I remember correctly, I believe that the questioner has called me in consultation on the precise question of ptsd, then we should not agree with each other to take the debate on ptsd there, or at least reaffirm the agreement that is about consultation. This is, in fact, a really relevant discussion, as the questioner approaches at the end of the question. I would, of course, very, very much like to enter into this consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134807	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134815	The question is: can the Minister give any answer as to how the government will deal with the asylum situation in the light of the European Court of Human Rights ruling?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134827	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112134828	Yes, it may be that there are some viewers and listeners who have not just followed what judgment has been handed down by the European Court of Human Rights. However, what we are discussing here, I assume, is the question of whether it has now been made difficult to transfer families with children to Italy under the Dublin Regulation in the light of the judgment given by the European Court of Human Rights. First of all, let me say that it will ultimately be the Refugee Board which determines the significance of that judgment in relation to Danish practice. Here too, the arm's length principle applies. I can see from many of the proposals of the Danish People's Party that the arm's length principle in the rule of law sometimes makes it difficult to fully respect it, but so there is in this area too. Having said that, I would like to say that, in my view, very much rests on the European way of dealing with the whole area of asylum, that the Dublin Regulation actually works, that is to say that fingerprints are taken and that asylum seekers are registered when they come to the first EU country. There have been some problems with this in connection with Italy. And it is equally important that all EU Member States, which I would regard as something absolutely fundamental and natural, are, of course, able to deal with the asylum seekers who come to their own country. So I think it is deeply problematic if we are in the situation that we cannot send asylum seekers back to Italy because they have minors and we cannot be sure that a country like Italy is a country! So, of course, I assume that work is being done, including in the country concerned, to obtain a situation so that we can meet the commitments we have, among other things. from the Italian side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135013	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135015	Well, yes, but you can say the arm's length principle several times, but what I think is the case here is how the government responds to the fundamental problem. It could be said that this is an Afghan family which the Swiss authorities are sending back to Italy, where the Court of Human Rights has gone in and said: that is not possible, you cannot do so. Or you could say: this is an opportunity to determine the Danish asylum policy, in other words, in relation to this example. So it is basically just a question of what consequences it has in relation to the Danish asylum policy. What is the Minister's view: what are the consequences of this ruling on Danish asylum policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135102	Well, if the questioner thinks that we should change our Danish asylum policy because in another EU country we are not fulfilling our obligations, then the answer is no. Because it is a responsibility that Italy must assume, namely of course 1) to register asylum seekers as it should be, but 2) of course can also house asylum seekers and, moreover, treat asylum seekers, which I believe is something that a country like Italy can and must live up to. In my view, the Dublin Regulation is a very, very important instrument, and I would not recommend what I have also heard representatives, I think, both from the Enhedslisten and the SF, namely that we must have a completely different asylum system in the European Union, because there is a regulation, the Dublin Regulation, which does not work as intended in some specific situations. I do not understand that conclusion at all, because I do not see a European asylum system based on a different principle from the fact that in the country to which asylum seekers come, they must be registered. And, of course, asylum seekers must be able to be sent back. So Italy will have to rectify the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135208	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135209	I'm kind of glad to hear that. I will then commit the sacrilege in this matter to challenge the terms of the judgment, because I understand that Article 3 has been convicted which prevents expulsion to a country where people are at risk of torture or inhuman or dishonorable treatment. Now I myself have been in Italy and seen what the situation is like down there, and I have to say that it is not the case that I am thinking of torture or inhuman or dishonorable treatment in relation to the asylum seekers who are in Italy. I have to say. However, I am glad that the Minister says that it has no impact on our asylum system and that, if that is what it takes, we will, of course, be able to send people back to Italy in the future under the Dublin Regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135307	But that's just not what the minister said. For what the Minister said, and it is good that the Minister is the same, even now that she can answer the same question, was that to the question whether it should have, one might say, substantial, action-altering consequences, is my answer no. Because I do not want an asylum system in the European Union based on anything other than the basic premise of the Dublin Regulation. After all, there are some who believe that it should be terminated, and then we should do some sort of distribution of asylum seekers coming to the European Union, which some would think is very solidarity. I am very much opposed to this, because I want Denmark to decide on our own asylum policy. Whether the verdict will have concrete consequences is, after all, a completely different discussion. What I started by saying in my introduction was that it is ultimately the Refugee Board that decides whether there can be specific families of children who, because of the judgment, cannot be sent to Italy. This is another discussion, because as long as that judgment is there with that meaning, we cannot send children's families back to Italy. It will certainly be possible to discuss whether the judgment is correct or not, but I do not have any prerequisites as a Danish Minister of Justice to suddenly begin to assess whether or not judgments handed down by the European Court of Human Rights are correct. There it may be a little easier to represent the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135420	Sir. Christian Langballe, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135423	In other words, I am right in saying that this will determine the asylum policy in Denmark in practical terms, because it will not be possible to send people back to Italy, even if it is part of the Dublin Regulation. And one might ask the question: does this not really mean that at this stage both Schengen and the Dublin regulation have collapsed? Because we cannot, so to speak, secure the external borders, nor can we ensure that the Dublin Regulation is actually implemented. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135507	I think it is quite obvious that we have problems with both external and internal borders within the European Union. I think that is quite, quite clearly. I mean, crime is cross-border. It is both at the external borders and at the internal borders. That is why, with a new proposal, we are proposing to step up our efforts in relation to our own borders. So I think that's completely indisputable. And there we have really, really big challenges right now. After all, the Refugee Board is currently assessing the scope of the sentence, and that is why I say that it is ultimately the Refugee Board that will decide what significance the sentence should have in relation to the return of children's families. Until the Refugee Board has assessed that scope, there will be no forced broadcasts of families with minor children to Italy. This also applies to three other countries, namely Malta, Bulgaria and Hungary, and I informed the committee of this yesterday because in those countries too there are serious shortcomings in their accommodation system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135607	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. The next question is to the Minister for Culture by Mr. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135621	Thank you. The question is: why did the Minister in Politiken choose to call on the DR to present all documents relating to the European Melodi Grand Prix when at the same time she does not want to deal with the abolition of the DR Entertainment Orchestra and constantly defends the right of the DR to abolish it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135646	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135647	Thank you. The two cases have little to do with each other. It is true that I called on the Danish Radio to produce documents relating to the Eurovision Song Contest. I called on the Danish Radio to submit all the documents so that the case could be disclosed to the public. This does not alter the fact that it was DR's own decision to provide the documents. I did not impose it on them and dictated it in any way, but urged them. As regards the closure of the Entertainment Orchestra, the Danish Radio management is responsible for finding the savings that the parties to the agreements have imposed on them, while at the same time we have wanted a large number of things to be prioritised, which require resources to be transferred from one area to another. That is why it is very important for me to stress that the management of Denmark's Radio is the priority within the financial framework given to them by the Danish Parliament. And that's a completely different matter. It is the arm's length principle in both places.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135749	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135750	As the Minister has noted, again this week I have dressed around my whole Protestant suit, so at least half and not the pants. I know it's the minister who's wearing his pants in this case at least for the time being. However, I cannot help asking about the very thing about the arm's length principle, where the difference between these two cases lies. Now the Minister says that she did not demand that Denmark's Radio present the documents on the European Melodi Grand Prix. But then let us go back a little year, when the Minister wrote to the DR in another case, namely about DR Bonanza, which the DR wanted to shut down. There the Minister wrote to the DR that we, as politicians, considered it part of the public service contract for DR's archive obligation that DR had DR Bonanza. Why is it that in some cases you can say that there is no arm's length principle and in this case rely on a contract? I also mean that you should use the Entertainment Orchestra, while in other cases the Minister uses the arm's length principle as a shield and says that she will not interfere with that. It seems almost as if she is concerned about discussing something that one can actually discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135902	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112135903	Around Bonanza the case was that it was decided that there should be an archive for Danmarks Radio. No one's dreaming that that archive isn't supposed to be there. Denmark's Radio thinks so too. That is why we asked from the rapporteurs of the media circle, and I was the one who put it out that Bonanza was waited until there was a compensation. That's what it was all about. We didn't forbid the killing of Bonanza. We just said there had to be a replacement before we could do it. Because we didn't think Bonanza was good enough in the media either. In fact, we wanted to give citizens a greater opportunity to access the archives of Denmark's Radio. So I don't think it's fair. There is, of course, a difference between the previous and the fact that we are making some changes, to which we are saying: yes, that is also right, but we need to have a compensation before we can implement it. I think that's fair enough. It is not a breach of the arm's length principle. We are not preventing Denmark's Radio from replacing Bonanza with something better.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140004	Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140005	But then I do not understand why the Minister believes that it is a breach of the arm's length principle that we, as politicians, can say that we continue to believe that DR should have an entertainment orchestra because it is in the existing contract. In connection with the most recent many contracts, politicians have said what ensembles DR should have. And yes, we have given DR a task of saving some money, but we have never ever expected and thought that they could be saved on something that one was actually obliged to have and certainly not without asking the politicians first. Sometimes you have to be careful that this arm's length doesn't get too long and you just run around corners with each other. Because it doesn't help that you have a vacuum between making a media settlement and entering into a new public service contract, that is to say that DR can just afford everything in the intervening period. So I simply do not understand the Minister's position on the arm's length principle and the difference there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140103	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140104	Perhaps that is because we are in a position right now where we disagree on a specific point. Normally, we agree on what the arm's length principle means. This means that it is not the Minister who decides who should have money from one or the other or the third pool. There are some people in the Danish Cultural Authority who do this on the basis of some professional criteria. And what is art is to find out how far the possibilities of politicians are in relation to an institution such as Denmark's Radio, where it is absolutely crucial that there is no political interference in programme areas etc. etc. because it is a public service station. Therefore, it is also important to say and to insist that a management has been appointed and elected a board of directors, on which the Danish Parliament also has an influence, who is in charge of the management task, which is to give priority within the financial framework set out by the Danish Parliament and under the conditions laid down in the public service contract. So there is
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140207	Sir. Morten Marinus, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140208	We're not gonna agree today, I can hear that. I still think that when things are in a contract, it is because they have to be respected, and when you make a new contract, you also have to talk about it and not just report out in the press, that now you want to get rid of some things, or rather, that last week I'm going to remove the minister a gift, a CD with the entertainment orchestra, and asked her to go home and hear it and think about things. I can hear that hasn't helped. It may be something with taste and pleasure, so today I will give her a CD with Dario Campeotto and the entertainment orchestra, and there is also a little greeting from Dario on the back. If the Minister does not have time to hear the whole CD, I would recommend that she hear cutting no. 8, • the shop and the poppy, and then maybe we'll agree accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140253	The Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140254	I hope it is legal to receive gifts in this Chamber, and I am happy to hear the entertainment orchestra. However, that does not change my view of what the arm's length principle is. And I am very, very concerned about breaking the arm's length principle. Once you do it, it'll be easier to do it next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140316	The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Culture. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140332	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: what is the Minister's attitude to the crazy fact that a young person under the age of 15 who has not yet left the 9th grade is not allowed to work with the expedition in a larger shop, but good in a small shop, so that it is the size of the business that is crucial, but not how hard, how much and how straining work is for the young person?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140354	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140400	I should like to begin by saying that I can only support the fact that there is a limit to what children and young people of compulsory education can do. In fact, it also follows from an EU directive in this area that young people who go to school or who are not yet 15 years old are not allowed to work at all, as a rule. However, the directive has made it possible for young people aged 13 and over to deal with easier forms of work if it does not present a risk to their safety and health, and we in Denmark, moreover, as we are accustomed to, in close cooperation with the social partners, have chosen to give effect to the fact that young people aged 13 years old, for example. may carry out lighter expeditions in small shops. It also follows from an annex to the Order on the Work of Young People, which actually dates back to 1996, but which was last amended in 2005, i.e. under the former VK government, and these rules on the work of young people, as I said before, have been drawn up in close cooperation with the parties in this area. So I think that this has helped us to define the type of jobs that young people under the age of 15 must do, and I think that is actually a good thing for both children and young people, but also for their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140524	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140525	Thank you for your answer. But it is now the case that this is an overimplementation. The rule that children and young people should not be burdened with hard work may be good, but in practice it means that, for example, a 15-year-old who is in the 9th grade is not allowed to sit by the box in a supermarket after school, but, on the other hand, is allowed to stand in a bakery shop on Saturday and Sunday morning, where it is really busy, and that is because one store is bigger than the other. The consequence of this is that merchants of a certain size, i.e. supermarkets, run the risk of obtaining an immediate injunction from the Labour Inspectorate, that is to say, that the damage must be repaired immediately if they employ young people of 15 years of age for dispatch when they have not left the 9th grade. That is why I would like to follow it up with two questions to the Minister: does the Minister believe that it is reasonable for merchants to risk such a drastic immediate demand by employing young people under the age of 15 who have not left the 9th grade? And does the Minister see a problem with a young 15-year-old who still goes to school, for example? Does two hours sit at the cashier on a Wednesday afternoon after school, so that it is the size of the business that is crucial, and not the strain on the work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140639	First of all, I must say that this is not an overimplementation, actually quite the opposite. The starting point of the directive is that young people under the age of 15 should not be allowed to work, and the directive then opens up opportunities for some work to be given to young people as young as 13 years of age, but on the basis of their safety and security. I think this is an excellent approach to taking care of children and young people. Then we have done what we have done so many times in the field of labour market policy in Denmark that we have sat down with the social partners, and together with us they have helped define it here. Perhaps I cannot quite see through the examples that Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen comes along here, but just say that this has been done in cooperation with the social partners in order to protect young people and is then, you might say, revised last time in 2005 under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140734	Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140736	It is reasonable to protect young people and children. But the crucial thing here is not the nature of the work, nor is it how hard the work is or how much you work or how stressful the work is. The crucial thing is the business size in square meters, and it is however a strange and strange rule that no one can understand. That is why I would like the Minister to respond more specifically to whether the Minister does not consider it quite unreasonable that a grocery shop of a certain size can be ordered immediately, while the young person can do a job with, for example, a job. a vegetable dealer, where the work may be more burdensome than sitting by the box in a supermarket.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140824	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140826	I am sure that I will not be able to get much closer to that than by partly repeating the answer I have given here. We have not overimplemented this directive, on the contrary. We have also gone all the way down to 13-year-olds being able to participate in easier work based on their security and security. It has the social partners, who, with all due respect, may be the ones closest to us, at least closer than I feel as a minister, helped to define. This is something that has worked for many years and, of course, by 2005 at the latest, it is also beginning to be a few years ago that it has been looked at again, and there are the rules that are based on the agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140908	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140910	Now it is not crucial that the rule has been there for many years; one can say that that stupidity has been there for many years. That is why I would like the Minister to take action on this matter and see if it can't be changed. Because this is a completely unfair framework, and not logical rules, and it must be so that it is transparent and so that companies can follow the rules and thus make jobs grow in numbers and so on. etc. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister does not intend to clean up the number of illogical and exaggerated Danish rules which both make work unnecessarily difficult for companies, but also affect young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112140954	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen raises a very specific question: will I take action on this? The answer to that is: No, I will not. I think it is a good thing that we have rules that protect young people, and for me it is primarily about protecting them, and that the young people should also have plenty of time to attend their school; I think that is really important to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141014	The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141022	Does the Minister agree with the questioner that it is crazy for an employer to draw up a detailed workplace instructions for how decalcification agent for a coffee machine is used properly if it is part of the employee's work to handle coffee brewing when coffee machines and decalcification agents are found in every Dane's home?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141044	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141047	I can hear the curiosity of the question, which is why I am glad to be able to give the questioner a very precise answer. I would like to make it clear that if there is decalcification agent in a quantity, for example. is similar to that of an ordinary household, so it is typically not necessary to make a workplace assessment for that product. There is a de minimis threshold based on a concrete assessment of the amount of chemicals and the number of different product types and the frequency with which these products are used. The rules therefore do not mean, as is suggested here, that a manual of workplace use should be made simply because a single coffee machine has to be decalcified. It is therefore only when we are talking about large quantities of dangerous substances that a workplace assessment should be carried out. The Danish health and safety regulations must therefore comply with the rules which also apply in this case to an EU directive on chemical substances. The Directive covers all workers working with chemicals. Thus, the employment guidelines meet the directive's requirement that, in the case of chemicals, a workplace assessment should be carried out as a starting point, but, as I said, there is a small limit here. And the fact that we are aware of chemicals is, of course, absolutely crucial, because these are products which may be a danger to the individual worker, but I am also very happy about the small limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141214	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141216	After all, what the Minister says is quite right: there is this EU directive for companies working on chemical substances. However, in Denmark, the directive has been implemented as a requirement for all companies. Danish companies must therefore draw up and also update these workplace user instructions for e.g.: these basic household products, if they are used in the company. I cannot quite understand why the Minister is saying that there is this small limit. Because it is not the one that is being driven after in practice. But I am glad if the Minister will now ensure that it is the one that is being followed in practice. Otherwise, there is again an over-implementation in an area which is completely unnecessary and completely incomprehensible to ordinary people. Can I now be sure that the Minister will ensure that the Labour Inspectorate does not rush forward and thus does the opposite of what the Minister is saying here, so that the competitiveness of Danish companies is not diminished by this over-implementation, which is in fact the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141327	Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Flemming Damgaard Larsen from several times during Question Time, and that is why I should like to clarify something. Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen says that it is now again an over-implementation of an EU directive, but I think we actually established just before that it was not an over-implementation of an EU directive. And in this situation, we must also make it clear that there is no over-implementation of an EU directive either. I made it quite clear in my answer that there is a small limit, and I am quite happy with that. When it says all Flemming Damgaard Larsen, you cannot deduce what the questioner is doing here. This is, of course, because if you didn't say all companies as a starting point, you would have to get in and make a positive list on this, and then you would have a bureaucracy that would do something. So, when there are employees involved in chemicals, they must, of course, be protected, and that is what the directive is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141415	Flemming Damgaard Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141416	I would like to be absolutely sure that I have understood the Minister. The minister says there's a de minimis limit, and that's fine. But will the Minister ensure that in this situation, when it comes to a decalcification agent for a coffee machine that you have in every Danish home, it applies in such a way that you do not have this requirement for companies where you use decalcification agent for coffee machines?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141450	I know that the Labour Inspectorate will certainly not come home with me personally or with Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen to check if our coffee machine is decalcified. The second thing I said was about a small limit. Then there may be large institutions where there is much to decalcify. That is to say, there is a large amount of chemicals present, and yes, it is a different situation. I actually think I was very precise in relation to the de minimis limit, and that should not be used as a force. But we need forces in general in relation to chemicals, because we know that this is something that affects people who just do their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141524	Sir. Flemming Damgaard Larsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141525	We can easily agree on that. That is why I would like to conclude by asking whether the Minister will ensure that the Labour Inspectorate does not spend time and effort bothering small businesses, where you just have an ordinary household coffee machine that stands and makes coffee, and thus also has decalcification agent for use by the coffee machine in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141547	Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141548	I would like to assure you that the Labour Inspectorate does not spend unnecessary time and effort on a single coffee brewer around the individual offices.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141558	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Education by Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141607	The question is: Will the Minister, on the occasion of Operation Days Work on 5 November 2014, state what the Minister will do to ensure that teaching time in high school is spent on teaching and not on political projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141620	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141623	Thank you for the floor. We were also here at exactly the same time last year discussing Operation Daywork. That is why I would like to start by saying that I believe that Operation Daywork, which has been running for many years, is an initiative which has a number of qualities. This year, young people are out doing a day's work to contribute to projects that help young homosexuals in Kenya, who are unfortunately subjected to repression at various levels. So both the purpose and the fact that young people here in Denmark choose to go in and support international work, we think we are worth all honour. As to what belongs to or does not belong to education, new guidelines have been adopted. This was left before Operation Daywork in 2013, and then I also informed Mrs Marie Krarup about what the new guidelines are like. It says, and I quote: No pupils must be forced to participate in Operation Daywork's activities. It's important. One cannot be forced to participate in work or in gathering or anything else. It is the management of each school that decides whether the school participates in Operation Daywork. At a school which chooses to attend, the day of work can take place in two ways. Firstly, it can take place in such a way that day work is a day off. Students participating in Operation Daywork may, of their choice, take the day off for this purpose. There I would like to stress that it is a day off, and that means that pupils must receive education another day, so that they do not lose education if that is the model they choose. The second is that day work may be a school day with teaching, and that of course requires the content of the teaching to meet the purposes of the subjects, and I think it does so when you go in and work with foreign work with support for different types of organizations here young people and different parts of what we would call human rights. Therefore, we are quite confident that the activities also live up to what can be done in high school, with the two options that are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141821	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112141823	We also stood here one year ago, and if I am re-elected and the Minister continues as Minister of Education, we will be here next year until Operation Day Work is gone. I think it is fine that young people would like to use energy to do political and charitable activities, but they just need to spend their spare time on it. Adults or teachers or school leaders or education ministers or rapporteurs should be so responsible that they can say to the students: spend your spare time on this and don't disturb the teaching. There should simply not be time spent in teaching for such projects. There is already far too little time for teaching, especially the special education is very difficult to achieve, and therefore it is of course a brazenness without equal that one will accept that some of the pupils leave the teaching to go out and do voluntary projects during school hours so that it becomes difficult to carry out an education for the whole class. Because even if you say it is voluntary and teaching is given at another time, it is just so out in reality that when half the class is gone one day, it is very difficult to get it over in a different way. Of course it is disturbing in teaching. In addition, it is also a political project which takes account of certain political positions. If it were the case that all political projects were to be accommodated in school, then there would simply be no time for any kind of education. But, of course, it is necessary to opt out in order to make room for political projects, and then, of course, it will be in certain directions. We shall not discuss whether it is left-wing or right-wing or whatever it is. I think that the very principle of allowing charity or political work to be part of teaching time is quite simply wrong, as I said, especially at a time when it is so difficult to reach professional curricula. So I would like to ask the Minister of Education once again whether she will not send a letter to the schools and invite the colleges to put Operation Daywork in hibernation or abolish it so that one can concentrate on teaching in the country's educational establishments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142039	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142040	It is fair enough that the Danish People's Party has always opposed Operation Daywork. But there is a very broad political majority that considers this to be very important, among other things. Because it meets what is the purpose of high school. There are many goals for what students should bring with them when they are finished with a secondary education. But some of it is that the students must learn to relate reflectively and responsibly to the outside world they are part of, and therefore it is entirely in line with giving a day's work to the projects. That is precisely why it is proposed as an option how individual schools will approach it, and that is why I would also suggest that Mrs Krarup should be able to take the discussion with the individual schools. But it is actually important to decentralise the possibility with the clear guideline that it must meet the objectives of education if it is part of the teaching time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142130	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142131	I think it is the responsibility of a Minister of Education to ensure that students in Denmark receive the most possible education. And that is why I think that the Minister for Education should take action and not leave it up to a local election whether you want to teach or not. After all, it does not lead to a reflective or responsible position when you force children to take part in a particular political project. That is exactly the opposite, and that is why I am very pleased that there is decreasing participation in Operation Daywork and that some have begun to do alternative Operation Daywork. So there are a few students and fortunately there are increasing numbers of people who can think independently and can go against the current. I think that's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142212	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142213	I think it is excellent that there are students who choose to do other types of day work. Because this shows that they also go in and take responsibility and therefore see themselves in relation to a global world. However, I would like to stress that there are no pupils, no pupils, who can be forced to participate in Operation Daywork. The last thing I just want to inform you about is that the daywork projects that can be supported must be those that comply with the rules that apply to be able to apply for foreign funds so that they can be brought in at all. So you can't do Operation Daywork for anything. This is something that runs according to the official guidelines of organisations which can also seek funds in relation to developing countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142252	Mrs. Marie Krarup, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142254	I do not understand that the Minister for Education will not take on the responsibility of ensuring that pupils in Danish secondary schools receive as much education as possible and that she can ignore the fact that these are, of course, political projects. Just as foreign aid has been politically adopted and is a political project, there can be no doubt that if children are to be set up for some particular political project for the Third World, that is exactly what it is: a political project and something they spend time on teaching and with which education is disrupted. It cannot be reasonable for this to happen in the institutions of the Minister of Education when her responsibility is to ensure that students in Denmark receive the most possible education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142336	Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142337	I do not think anyone knows that the Danish People's Party wants to cut aid to developing countries drastically. That is the political position of the Danish People's Party and fair enough of it. That is the position of the Danish People's Party. What we are doing to make sure that there is quality in the Operation Daywork projects is that the organisations for which money is collected must be organisations that comply with the guidelines that apply if we are to be able to apply for foreign funds in general. That's the first thing we do. The second is that if it takes place during part of the teaching period and I would like to stress here that one cannot be forced to participate then it must meet the objectives of secondary education. And some of the objectives are to be able to relate to the global world and to share responsibility for the developments that are taking place. And that's what you do with Operation Daywork.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142418	The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Health and the Prevention of Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142426	Here you go. And thank you to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142432	Thank you. I would like to ask how the Minister will ensure that the regions use all hospice spaces available so that they do not remain empty for reasons of austerity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142444	Minister for Health and Prevention. No. S 263 instead of spm. No. S 262]
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142447	The question is based on the fact that over the summer the Danish Health Authority has had a proposal for a new regulation on subsidies for nutritional preparations in consultation, and the proposal removes the subsidy for certain nutritional preparations, namely the so-called non-perfect standard products. It is products which are used only as complementary nutrition because they, for example, are used. do not have the necessary vitamins and minerals to constitute the patient's only nutrition. I think there is reason to stress that there is no change in subsidies for fully-fledged products, in other words those products which have a nutritional content which make a full contribution to the patient's need for nutrients, where the product can be used as the patient's only nutrition in appropriate quantities. The change must be seen in the light of the fact that there is still a major development of novel foods that are well suited to people with extra energy and protein needs, for example. sick and debilitated persons. Examples include energy drinks, yogurt, shrubs and ice with high content of e.g. protein. A large proportion of these products may be used as complementary nutrition for patients, but this does not mean that public subsidies should be granted for all products. We should keep an eye on where our public funds are most useful, especially when product development is constantly taking place and a significant increase in expenditure in this area. By targeting the public subsidy on fully-fledged standard products, it is precisely ensured that it goes to preparations that make a full contribution, for example. nutrition of cancer patients during or after treatment with cancer. Then I also think there is reason to point out, in good order, that patients affected by the proposed changes still have the possibility of applying for municipal subsidies according to the rules of social legislation. In this context, however, I think it is reasonable that the Danish Health Authority should focus on the nutritional content of the preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142648	Am I very wrong if both the questioner and the Minister answer Question 13, even if it was Question 12, you should start with? Liselott Blix I jump down to the second question). Yeah, yeah, we'll take it after. Liselott Blix But now the Minister has answered). Yeah, we keep going, we're just paying attention to it. It's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142711	It can be difficult sometimes when you have two questions and it's about the same group of patients. These were the answers to the question of the subsidy granted to nutrition drinks and the proposal for a new regulation which has now been sent in consultation. I find this problematic, because it is the case that some cancer patients cannot tolerate full-fledged nutrition drinks, for example. Because they're very cool. They are very difficult to drink, and it could be that the Minister himself should try to have such a day and then think that if you feel sick at the same time, it will be very difficult to drink it. That is why there are other products that are more digestible. They are then not full, because there is not as much fat in them, but they do allow you to supplement your diet with some nourishment. What the Ministry is now doing, that is to say, if you say yes to taking the subsidy away from the non-perfect products that there are, means that it will cost $1,600. For those who cannot tolerate the other, that is to say the full ones, but who would like something supplemental. And what I am asking the Minister is whether that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142829	Then I will also continue to answer the question asked. It is clear that we will have to stick to it if there are cancer patients who cannot tolerate the full products, for example. because of nausea or madness. If the doctor considers that there is a need for the patient to use nutrition preparations, the Danish Health Authority recommends the use of full standard nutrition products because they contain what the body needs in terms of energy, protein, vitamins and minerals. Then it is the Health Authority's information that it is very important that patients with nausea are offered adequate coverage with anti-nausea medicines. It is also important that patients in the hospital or in their own doctor receive advice on the general precautions that can be observed if you are a cancer patient who suffers from nausea or breast-feeding and, for example, if you are a cancer patient. may be that you eat the food in small meals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142936	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112142938	I wonder why we do not want to do this in a way that ensures that patients can get another product if they cannot tolerate one. There was an article in the Ekstra Bladet on Cancer Disease Flemming, which had very good benefit from the juice products in which there is nourishment. We know that there are some patients who are having difficulty drinking, and they may also sin because they may have paralysis in their mouths. They really benefit from getting an ice cream that is protein rich, and they will also remove the subsidy for that. Why not do as you do with all other medicines, where there is a list of what needs to be used first, so of course you offer the full first? And if patients cannot tolerate it, then there are alternatives that they can supplement their diet with, so that we at least ensure that when we do a quick analysis and a good treatment, we can also keep people alive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143038-2	I think there is reason to say when the questioner mentions the article in the Ekstrabladet to say that the Danish Health Service spoke to the Ekstrabladet about the background to tighten up and stated in this regard, as I have also sometimes said, that there are still subsidies for non-perfect disease-specific preparations. Subsequently, an article has been published in the NetAvisen under the heading "Proteindrinkikke med efterførte har være udviklingsafdelelse." The article quotes Jens Kondrup, who is head of the Nutrition Unit at Rigshospitalet and chairman of the Danish Society for Clinical Nutrition, and he stated that the juice-based drinks only provide a small supplement to the nutrition, as they either lack one or more of the essential minerals or vitamins or have too low content. Jens Kondrup explains that there are no studies that show that the juice-based drinks work, but that there is good evidence that the milk-based products work as they contain protein, energy and necessary vitamins and minerals and thus make a difference to patients who get fewer infections. Wounds heal better, patients are more quickly mobilized, and in some cases they can simply get out of hospitals more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143201	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143203	This shows precisely that when someone sits behind a desk and has to do something, it will look very good on paper, because when you can't eat, it's of course best to get what's full and what gives you a daily meal. But what if you can't tolerate it and throw up more for that reason? Isn't it better to get something that just gives a little more nourishment? It might be that the people of the Danish Health Service, or perhaps the minister himself, should go out and talk to some of the cancer patients involved, or the departments or pharmacists who sell these goods. It just means that we do not have equality in health, because those who have money can afford to give the 1.600 kroner. extra each month, while those who have little can't afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143251	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143252	Now, among other things, I quoted. Jens Kondrup, head of the Nutrition Unit at Rigshospitalet, but he has some contact with what the reality looks like. However, I agree with the questioner that if there are situations where you cannot tolerate the full products and where the non-perfect products will have this positive effect, then we have to look at how these situations can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143320	That was question 13, we got through. Then I understand that we are going back to question 12, and we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143330	No. S 262 resumed] Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143332	We take Question 12 on hospice sites: how will the Minister ensure that the regions use all hospice spaces available so that they are not left empty for reasons of austerity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143340	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143343	Danish patients must have access to good and equal treatment and care if they are incurablely ill and dying, whether you have your last day in your own home, hospital or hospice. It is the responsibility of the regions and municipalities to organise the work in this area so that the palliative effort is in order. The effort can be carried out either under the auspices of hospitals, in municipal home care or at a hospice, which I and the questioner have also talked about a great deal, among other things. during the most recent wage-pool negotiations. In relation to the use of hospice sites, it is the responsibility of the region to conclude agreements with the hospices located in the region. So the Regional Council basically decides which hospices you want to agree with and which capacity you need. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, this must be seen in the context of the other palliative efforts in this area. With regard to the issue of austerity, I would just like to point out that, through the last three years of economic agreements, the government has raised the economy of the municipalities and regions by 4 billion. kr. that the health strategy provides an additional 5 billion. kr. in the health sector, and at the same time a partial agreement has now been concluded with the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, which raises health with a further 1.5 million. kr. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, in the context of the recent wage-pool negotiations, funds have been set aside to strengthen the palliative effort in the municipalities. I do not think it is appropriate for me to stand here and dictate that a region should use all the beds of a privately owned institution, just as I do not want to dictate how many seats a privately owned institution should build. However, I have a clear expectation that the regions and municipalities will ensure that dying patients receive the care and treatment they need wherever they have their last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143537	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143539	Well, that puzzles me. In other words, I think it is incredibly good that some funds have been set aside in the field of health. One would like to do something for cancer patients, for example, to whom large amounts of money are set aside. But I'm surprised when we talk about palliative treatment... that you don't want to use them for hospice places. Because we know that there are very sick people in the hospitals dying and would like to have a hospice site, which we know is beneficial and which we have prioritised through the cancer packages, and we know that a hospice site is co-financed by the municipality to ensure that you get the best care that is for a dying person. So it is clear that I think it is a problem when we see that there are four rooms empty, because the Central Jutland Region says that it is not something that you want to add more money to. Can the Minister not see that this is a problem in that we want to do a good cancer treatment and a very good explanation, so that when life comes to an end, we will do the best we can?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143651	In fact, I do not think that is a fair representation of the situation. Well, I think that I and the questioner basically agree that hospice space is one of several functions that can be chosen in the end. And, of course, we have just recently set aside 12 million in the pool negotiations. kr. extra in 2015 for relief offers for families with terminally ill children, just as we, also in the pool negotiations, have set aside money for a model municipality project, which is an attempt to work around this issue, namely how to ensure that you get a worthy death. So I think it's wrong to say that you can measure how worthy a death you get by measuring how many hospice sites are used.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143736	Then it's Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143739	Well, I could understand if we already had this really good palliative treatment in our homes or near where people live. It could be in nursing homes where we had some really good palliative teams. But we know we haven't. We can see that there are seats and that we know that at the same time there are citizens who are interested in hospice but cannot because the economy is in the way. It is, after all, inequality in health: If you can afford, you can pay, but if you are one of those who cannot afford to pay a hospice place yourself, then it is at the hospital that you may have to end your life in a busy department.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143814	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143816	Yeah, on one side. On the other hand, it would also be an entirely unsustainable situation if anyone who wanted to create a private hospice site could force the region to buy that space. For that would seriously distort the possibilities for, among other things. to take the palliative action that must be taken against all patients who need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143842	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143844	I don't think I'm gonna move on that much. I would just like to say that I am surprised that so much money is being spent on investigation and treatment, but it will not be best for patients when it comes to hospice, rehabilitation or nutrition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143858	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143859	I cannot accept the premise that, because we are strongly committed to helping runners and are strongly committed to helping cancer patients, it should at the same time be an opt-out to ensure that there is a proper response for dying patients. I think that we are doing a huge amount of palliative work, and I also think that we are doing wage-pooling agreements and so on. extends the effort to help those who are dying.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143927	We thank Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then we move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14, and this is from Mrs Sophi Løhde from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143940	Thank you, President. Why does the government not believe that there is a need for a cancer plan IV, as proposed by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143947	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112143948	Although we are constantly getting better and better at treating people with cancer, we must continue to ensure that even more people survive a cancer. That is why, of course, we must constantly take stock of the challenges facing cancer. I am not so concerned about what they call things, but I think one thing is clear: the government has set a binding and ambitious target as something new that three out of four will survive cancer by 2025. It is also in order to have a goal in mind that we can set and adjust the course, and in relation to the objective I have noted that the fight against cancer has called the objective both ambitious and realistic. Over the next four years, the government will invest over 1 billion. kr. in better cancer treatment. It acts among other things. That we should be better at making an early diagnosis so that more people can survive. On the other hand, I still do not have an answer as to what the Left will do in the area of cancer after 2015, and not least how the Left will finance the many promises and how much of the money will go to private hospitals. Because what's the point of making a plan if you don't have the money to follow it up? All we know for sure is that the Left will feed the regions and municipalities with their own tail. The government, on the other hand, puts action behind the words, and it must be felt with a fully funded and long-term plan within a responsible economic policy which is so beneficial to Danish cancer patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144131	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løh.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144132	One would almost think that the Minister for Health had let go of the reins and had begun to plan to sit somewhere else in the Chamber since the roles are suddenly reversed, so it is the Minister who is asking questions to the Left Health rapporteur rather than answering the questions that have been sent to the Minister for reply. But let me take as a starting point what the Minister said, which pointed to being an answer to what I have asked, namely why the government will not create a cancer plan IV, which we have proposed in the Left, so it is not enough to set targets for the Danish cancer effort if we cannot also point out the means. I think it was positive that the Minister said that the government really wants to take a continuous look at the challenges in the field of cancer. I think that is a good thing for the Minister to say. But then the answer must also wonder all the more. If we go back and look at the reasons why the first cancer plan, Cancer Plan I, was launched at the time, then we can see that, among other things. was based on the fact that there was a large capacity shortfall because up to the 1990s there had not been time to have the necessary planning in place. It can be said that this is, like the challenge we do not think we should face again, because it was something that cost us dearly in relation to the survival of cancer, because it led to very long waiting times for cancer patients. Knowing that we are facing some really great challenges in the field of cancer, it is incomprehensible to me that this government does not want to put responsibility first by saying that, of course, we must ensure that the Danish health service is not only tomorrow, but also in 5 years and 10 years' time geared to the challenges that we all know to come up with in the field of cancer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144313	I understand that it is inconvenient for the questioner to have to explain how things are going to work when it is so obvious to everyone that the economic policy of the Left is not linked here either. Nevertheless, I think that if you want to look far into the future, it is appropriate to ask the question: where should the money come from? I still miss the answer to that. I would just like to say that I can see that the basic elements of the cancer rate that we have created over recent years are better tools to detect and respond more quickly to the suspicion of cancer and an increased capacity to investigate cancer • precisely some things that will help us to secure the long-term objective that the questioner is calling for, namely that three out of four should survive cancer by 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144407	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144408	What is obvious to everyone is that the government does not like the fact that the Left gives priority to health than the government does. We're gonna set off a billion dollars. kr. extra for health in 2015, and yesterday, in connection with the Finance Act, the Minister himself entered into a partial agreement with his support parties, saying: we think only 600 million should be spent. kr. extra on health. Yes, it is a significant difference whether you want to allocate 600 million. kr., or if, as the Left, it is thought that 1 billion should be set aside. kr. I would also like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive. But what is this development in the field of cancer that the Minister does not think we should take into account in the future, given that this government is stubbornly insisting that a cancer plan IV, as proposed by the Left, is a bad idea? Why is it that we are about to repeat the mistakes of the past from the 1990s and again risk facing major capacity problems in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144510	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144512	I simply have to arrest the questioner who says that the Left will give health a higher priority. In its financial bill, the Left has set up 1 billion. kr. of 2015, and you have then come to mind that when the time comes, you will also try to see if you find the money in 2016, 2017 and 2018 • Now we will see. But at the same time, the Left has said that DKr 460 million. of the billion must be financed by the health care system itself. So of the billion you give to health care, you just take the 460 million. kr. from health care, and if we pull the two figures apart, we can clearly see that the situation is that the Left has not given priority to health at all to the extent that one would give the impression. And that truth has also come to people far into the Left. I have a quote from a mayor of the Left that is then in the municipal area who says: "The Communists and the government have an agreement. There it is clear what subsidies we will receive next year. So I find it hard to see that the Left can just snatch the money in 2015. That is what John Engelhardt, who by the way is the Mayor of Glostrup, says.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144615	Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løh.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144617	Wow, the minister's been way down in the drawers trying to find some kind of counter to this. After all, it is a pure confession case when the Minister of Health does not even think he should answer the questions, but today only stands and points fingers at others and thinks he should find some old quote from a mayor regarding the municipal area. I mean, hello, we're talking about health care! Of course, we do not propose taking a step forward next year and then taking two steps back, that goes without saying. And I would say that I do not think it is possible to accuse the Left of having a problem with saying one thing before the elections, and then to do the exact opposite of whether there are others in this Chamber who may have a different starting point and feel taken in that regard, they must answer for themselves. I just need a clear answer from the government: why is it that you think it is so bad an idea to create a cancer plan IV as proposed by the Left? What are some of the developments in the field of cancer that the Minister does not think should be taken into account in relation to health planning?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144716	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144728	I think that sounds like a reasonable consideration. I just want to say to the pointing finger and to find an old quote: Well, the quote has come on top of your own financial law, so that means it has come after that call. It may well be that the questioner thinks it was a very long time ago, but I do not think so. Well, the quote is back from September 14 this year, so long back it isn't that long. With regard to the one step forward and the other step backwards, I would like to ask whether that is not exactly what you are doing when you say that there are 1 billion. kr. to the regions to improve health care and then say: then we'll just take the 460 million. kr. Again, next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144801	Then we're done with question 14. We move on to Question 15, and it is still the Minister for Health who sits in the ministerial chair, and it is still Mrs Sophie Løhde who is asking the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144814	Then we must hope that there will be an answer to that question. Does the Minister agree that the cancer packages introduced by the VK government with the regions have greatly increased the equality of health for Danes, not least for those with short or no training?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112144828	I agree with the rapporteur from the Left that the introduction of the cancer packages has been a good thing for Danish cancer patients. I think we are in agreement on this across the parties of the Folketing. And how good it is that they have helped to reduce health inequalities. I understand that the Left is now starting to take an interest in health inequalities. The next thing is that the Liberal Alliance is starting to take an interest in the unemployed or that Enhedslisten will help stock market speculators in tax havens. Why is it so hollow that the rapporteur of the Left is concerned when she talks about health inequalities? This is because the former VK government on long stretch exactly created an A and B team in the health field. It was the VK government that parked pensioners, people with chronic illnesses, people who had lost their jobs, and people with small incomes on the B-team, so all those who couldn't take out private insurance and skip the queue. It was the Left who, according to the National Audit Office, wasted millions of Danes' tax dollars on glorifying private hospitals, and it is the bourgeois who today continue to talk about the need for user fees when you get sick and have to go to the doctor, which will lead to even more inequality and especially to the country's pensioners. This government is going the opposite way, and thank God it has managed to put inequality on the agenda in earnest. We want a health service where people are treated according to how sick they are, not according to how well insured they are. We want a health service where no citizen should worry about whether they can afford to be treated if they are affected by disease. And I guess that's exactly one of the differences between us and you. While the Left seems to want praise for old deeds, I am more concerned with addressing some of the unresolved problems. We know that there is a ten-year difference between the length of time the least-favoured third of Danish men live in relation to the most-favoured third. There is plenty to address that makes sense in terms of improving the conditions of ordinary people... much more meaning than standing around talking about ten-year-old decisions... and I think we should take this fight against inequality in our healthcare seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145054	Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145055	I have not been watching television for the last few hours, but one would almost think that the parliamentary election is, I mean, can we not get the zoomed up on what we have actually asked, namely cancer treatment? It may be that the Minister thinks it is fun to entertain with all sorts of anecdotes, but we are concerned to ensure that more cancer patients receive rapid treatment and that we are also doing something about waiting times in this area where there are challenges. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the Minister recognises that the cancer packages introduced by the VK government at the time have produced some tangible results and have also helped to increase equality in health, not least for those with short or no training. What is then interesting is how this government and the Minister for Health think it should be ensured that fewer cancer patients will experience the waiting times, which we are unfortunately still looking away at in the field of cancer, and which the Minister is either not concerned with or less concerned with than campaigning against the Left. In other words, how can we provide some answers to what we should jointly try to do in order to address the waiting times in the field of cancer and to address the totally unfair regional differences in cancer treatment in Denmark today? We see, among other things, if we are to compare some of the regions, that only 52 per cent. of patients in the Capital Region with kidney cancer are operated on time, while in the same area in the Region of Southern Denmark it is 83 per cent. There may be differences in access to highly specialised health services for cancer patients. So what's the government's answer to that? What are we going to do to ensure that more regions, more hospitals, meet the requirements of the cancer packages, so that we can deal with waiting times and the huge regional differences in the area of cancer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145303	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145304	I think it's important to try to hold on to the proportions. That is what I was trying to say in connection with the fact that the Left is now concerned about inequality, namely that it is often the saints of the last days that are the most saved. It's undoubtedly what you're left with the impression of here. I think that the initiatives for which there is now a majority in the Folketing, thanks to the SF and Enhedslisten and the government, and which are going to make a real difference to people in Denmark with cancer, are worth highlighting. I believe that providing better tools for more rapid detection of cancer, providing better opportunities to respond to cancer, providing better capacity for cancer investigation are all elements that will ensure that cancer treatment in Denmark is even better than it is already.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145400	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145403	Now there is a majority in favour of not creating a cancer plan IV and not allocating the large amount of money to the cancer sector. However, I do not think the Minister really answered what the government is going to do about the problems that are currently in place in order to ensure compliance with the package in the field of cancer. Now I looked at the latest inventory, which the Danish Health Authority and the Statens Serum Institute are monitoring in the field of cancer, and it can be seen that it is about one in five cancer patients in Denmark who are waiting too long for treatment today. If you dive into the figures and also look at what organisations like for example. The fight against cancer and others say so here, so I can, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear here that there has been no convincing progress in recent years. The inventory thus shows that disparities between regions are increasing and, therefore, over the last few years it has gone the wrong way. What is the government's response to this development and to ensure that more cancer patients are treated more quickly in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145512	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145515	It is fresh from the questioner to say that the over a billion kroner that has now been agreed to strengthen the cancer area does not matter. It is almost as if the questioner thinks it is nice with the waiting lists as there are, because we can then stand here and have a controversy about it. I think we should gather together to say that something needs to be done in this context. I can also say, when I read down the Left's proposal, that here, apart from the part that has been planned by private hospitals, we have agreed with the efforts we have put forward to do in the area of cancer, namely to ensure early, rapid investigation, to ensure better research capacity and to ensure that cancer is detected and responded more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145604	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145605	I have noticed that next year the government will set aside 180 million. kr. extra to the cancer area. We propose to allocate 380 million. kr. It may well be that the minister says it doesn't make any difference. I think it does. But what I think really makes a difference is in relation to the level of ambition in the field of cancer, both in the short and in the long term, and things are not going to be any more right if the Minister repeats them indefinitely. I think the Minister has yet to respond to the challenge we face in the field of cancer, which says that there are too many cancer patients who today do not get through the cancer packages in the times that we have set up. What will the government do to ensure that we do something about waiting times in the field of cancer? What will the government do to ensure that we address the quite unreasonable regional differences in relation to the access of cancer patients to rapid treatment? And what is the government going to do in the longer term in the field of cancer when you think it is such a bad idea to create a cancer plan IV?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145709	It is strange that we should listen to this talk of fog when we know that there is now a majority here in the Danish Parliament who have decided to give 1.1 billion good Danish kroner to improve cancer treatment in Denmark. It is real money, real money, rather than money, which is then withdrawn because of the finding of a fancy form of financing, as is the case with the Left's proposal, where there may be some 380 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets for the work they have done on this report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145745	That was Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring (H-l) on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 15. Thank you to Mrs Sophie Løhde and I can also thank the Minister for Health and Prevention. Instead, I can welcome the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs and Mrs Karin Nødgaard, who is asking questions No. 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145803	Will the Minister explain whether it is in line with the Government's recent legislative initiatives on rehabilitation and home help that the City of Copenhagen mayor of Health and Care in the media announces that if a citizen does not wish to participate in a rehabilitation programme, he can be deprived of his home help?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145821	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112145822	Thank you for the question. It is true that there are new legislative initiatives on which we are together. I would, of course, like to sign for that, because I think it is very gratifying that we have reached a joint agreement. As far as the question is concerned, it is indeed the case that the citizen must have the help or support for necessary practical tasks at home that the citizen needs. That, in fact, was also the answer to Mr Beazley's question. Finn Sørensen on his 20-question, S 38, on exactly rehabilitation in the City of Copenhagen. Thus, the municipal council must always make a concrete and individual assessment of the citizen's need for help in the tasks that the citizen cannot perform himself. I expect municipalities to make a concrete and individual assessment of citizens' needs for help in cases where citizens are offered rehabilitating interventions. The municipal council must look at the overall situation of the citizen when assessing the specific needs of the citizen for help and support. The assessment must look both at the citizens' resources and, of course, also at the needs. The bill on rehabilitation courses and home care, etc. is also based on the fact that the municipality must always make a concrete and individual assessment of the citizen's need for help. As you know, the draft law was first dealt with last Thursday and I clearly understood that we had a very good and positive debate. I also indicated that, in the course of the committee's examination of the draft law, I will look at whether the draft law is sufficiently clear about the legal status of the citizen, and we are looking at that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150009	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150010	Thank you, Minister. I would like to stress here that it is incredibly important for the Danish People's Party that we have the best possible legislation in the area of the elderly. We have had some concerns, and I also noted that the Minister registered at first reading and that work is continuing on this. The Danish People's Party is part of this agreement that was made in May, and we look forward to having an arrangement that, hopefully, can be of benefit and benefit to the elderly who need a rehabilitation course. In fact, I think that the Danish People's Party has contributed quite well to this. We have also asked questions and so on. I therefore actually choose to put some questions today to the Minister in this Chamber. I am extremely concerned about the answer the Minister refers to when we get some reports and in the media have heard, among other things. the mayor mentioned says that a citizen can actually be deprived of home help if he or she refuses to take part in a rehabilitation course. This is something that the Danish People's Party cannot accept. It must never be the case that a citizen who needs home help is left behind. There are, of course, many reasons why a rehabilitation course cannot be carried out. That is why, of course, I am very concerned to hear whether the Minister can make any good comments today on how to ensure that there are no municipalities in Denmark who, if this bill is implemented, can come and say: Well we're just depriving you of your home help because you don't want to be part of a rehabilitation programme. I am very, very concerned that we are getting a very clear statement from the Minister about that today, because it is so crucial to the Danish People's Party that this law will be a joy and benefit to everyone. I would also like to stress that, for us, it is very, very important that this does not end up being some sort of austerity proposal on the part of the municipalities. Of course, I also need to hear the Minister's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150217	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150218	Thank you. I do not think that the best possible legislation can be patented. There we are in complete agreement: that is what it should be, and that is why, of course, I will also sign up for all the negotiating meetings that have taken place, the latest one yesterday, when we were also discussing this precisely. I was surprised, of course, but I told you that I have to go down here and answer questions about some of what we're discussing right now. We fully agree that no one should be left behind. That's where we're all in line. My ministry has also been in contact with the City of Copenhagen, who has telephonically explained what I also explained yesterday, that the municipality's decision on the granting of aid under section 83 of the Service Act always takes place on the basis of a specific and individual assessment in each case. That is why I think it is quite clear that precisely in these cases we should be able to take things calmly and, of course, continue to work on the good proposal that we have jointly drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150325	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150326	Thank you. So, I cannot understand the Minister saying that he is surprised to be called in the Chamber today. Firstly, I am not referring to any internal negotiating meetings, not at all. I'm referring to a long process that has been going on since we started talking about this rehabilitation thing at the beginning of the spring. Secondly, I think that the Minister should only be happy that he will have the opportunity to come to the Assembly and explain his views on this. I would like to know how the Minister intends to enter into dialogue with KL ^ as a representative of the municipalities in order to clarify what the Minister has now said in his first reply. I think that is incredibly important for us to be included in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150408	I am now surprised because I have never before been called in the Chamber to answer questions about a debate that we are in full swing with. As far as the KL is concerned, we are in constant dialogue with the KL. And, as I did not just say this time before, it has been made clear in the legislative text, and we have done so together, that a citizen cannot be deprived of or refused home help, simply because the citizen is unable, for example, to do so. To complete this rehabilitation program or help with self-help, depending on what you would call it. We have just written this in because there should be no doubt whatsoever that we cannot make that link if the citizen is unable to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150500	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150500-2	I shall not be able to say whether the Minister has not been called in the Chamber before to comment on something that we are working on. I actually think that everything we do in here is that kind of continuous and so on. We have had a first reading and I think that at first reading some things came out which meant that there was a broad consensus among the parties that there was something that had to be clarified. That is why I put this question in writing last week, which we should then have an oral answer to today. I do not think it was quite clear how the Minister intended communication with the KL to take place. But I really want to stick to this: if a citizen cannot carry out a rehabilitation course, does that mean that the citizen can actually say on perhaps two days that he simply cannot do so and then he will be sure to get the home help he needs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150552	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150554	Well, it's not just me that's surprised. Those of my colleagues I have asked are now also surprised at this. I just asked the tax minister if he had tried it before, and he said that this is the first time he has been in the Chamber, so maybe it wasn't very good to ask him that. It is in the nature of things that you are in a rehabilitation course and they can be different all together where, for various reasons, you are not able to be there, so the municipality has to assess the home help, exactly as they should when you need home help. They must assess as necessary and what else is used to determine whether home help should be provided. And that, of course, remains the case. And I am not assuming that I have also asked the rapporteur to change the guiding principle that exists in the individual municipalities in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150648	Thank you, Minister. Then we have finished Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 16. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17, which is also put forward by Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150657	How will the Minister ensure that no citizen is deprived of home help because they do not want to carry out a rehabilitation course?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150707	Thank you again. On 19 June 2014, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, reached an agreement on future home help. This agreement is the basis for the draft law on rehabilitation, home care, etc. I understood, as I also said in the previous question, that we had a very, very positive debate at first reading and, as I indicated, I am naturally looking forward to the committee reading. At the end of the debate at first reading, I indicated that I am willing to look into how we can clarify the legal position of the citizen in committee. As I said in the previous question, we are in full swing at that right now. It is important that the citizen gets the help that the citizen needs both during a rehabilitation course and at the end of the rehabilitation process. This also applies, of course, to cases where the citizen does not carry out the rehabilitation process, regardless of the reason why the process is not being carried out. At the same time, it is very important for me to insist that it is the municipal council that ultimately decides on the aid that the citizen should receive and on the extent of it. This is a fundamental principle of all the services provided in the Services Act, and we do not in any way change that. On the other hand, it has been emphasised in several parts of the bill that it is important that there is a dialogue and motivation process between the citizen and the municipality exactly around a rehabilitation process.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150842	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112150844	Thank you. Of course, when I choose to ask a follow-up question, it is because I think it is important that we have a slightly longer dialogue on this subject. And whether the tax minister has not tried it before or not and how and how, I would say that the tax minister is also relatively new in office. However, I think I can remember this, because if there is something very close to our hearts in the Danish People's Party, it is that we are sure that the legislation we are implementing is also in order in relation to the target group that is now being affected by it, and here it is mainly the elderly. For this reason, of course, I would also like to hear from the Minister here: has the Minister considered how to ensure that the elderly is motivated; that a dialogue is entered into; that the employees are equipped to deal with the situation so that the elderly do not experience it as pulling something over their heads and actually do not experience getting any benefit from a rehabilitation course? That was one part of it. So on the second part: I have just taken note of what, for example. The mayor of the City of Copenhagen in this area has been out saying, and I can of course fear that this is actually about the fact that it may end up being a sort of austerity proposal for some municipalities. In this context, I would like to hear from the Minister how the Minister will ensure that this is not a question of giving the municipalities some sort of opportunity to say: we are now saving a lot of money, because we can now just let Mr. Jensen take care of himself and so on. How do we ensure that it is the citizen's best, the citizens' increased quality of life, that is to say, the most robber on the agenda in relation to this proposal when it is probably adopted at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151030	I think that the whole legislative proposal is imbued with precisely the thinking that this is exactly what should happen in dialogue with the individual citizen. And, of course, the rapporteur also knows that I take the view that this is not an austerity exercise, but something that increases the quality of life for a great many citizens. I should also like to say that this is already happening in a great many municipalities. There is nothing new about it in terms of the rehabilitation part itself, it is going on very, very many places. What we are, of course, changing and extending it with is that we are offering it to everyone when the need for home help needs to be assessed, which is happening just before. I would also just like to say that we have been in agreement on this all the way through in all the negotiations that have been going on, and this has actually been some good negotiations. It is not only the Danish People's Party that it is important to do this properly and to come up with a very good bill. This is indeed true of all the parties that have been involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151146	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151147	Thank you. After all, it is the minister who represents the government that I stand here and represent the Danish People's Party. It is therefore clear that I am speaking on behalf of the Danish People's Party in relation to the fact that we should be able to look ourselves in the eye when the result will eventually be available, and this needs to be implemented. In this respect, I would actually like the Minister to try to clarify how the Minister regards the legal certainty of the citizen as guaranteed by this, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where, in six months or a year's time, we have some citizens who simply say: this was dragged over our heads, that is simply not right. In addition, I would like to ask about the entire appeal system, because we know that there are many people who do not want the psychic resources to appeal. Has the Minister considered how to ensure that no one feels left behind?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151243	Well, I am still a little surprised by that, because it seems a little as if the rapporteur has forgotten that we have been sitting and negotiating this together and that only yesterday we were negotiating it here together. As far as the previous question is concerned, the questioner himself said that she would not refer to meetings and debates. And yet I have to deal precisely with the elements of this bill, which, if I answer the question, means that I am going to give my opinion on precisely those negotiations. But what I want to say is that we are following developments very, very closely. And then you have the opportunity, within the Ankestyrelsen's Board of Appeal, to file a complaint. This has been the case in the past, it is the case today, and so it will continue to be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151334	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151335	Thank you. I really would have liked to have gone a little deeper than that with legal certainty. I had hoped that the Minister would have replied a little more to that, because that is what is so important in relation to this. We know that this is probably a type of citizen who may not have the greatest resources to engage in a major process of complaint and so on, and that is why I really wanted to hear the Minister's comment on it about legal certainty. The minister himself will have to deal with the matter of speaking. We have been through a process, and I have simply chosen to say that I need to clarify a few things, so that we all have the other rapporteurs on the very day when there is a third reading of such a bill, can be one hundred percent sure that it will be an improvement and not a deterioration for the older fellow citizens to be rehabilitated. I am actually surprised that no one else has come and asked questions. Finally, would the Minister confirm that the Minister will contact the municipalities and say that this must never end up as a saving proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151432	The questioner wonders why there are no other rapporteurs present. Perhaps it is because of the simple fact that the other rapporteurs actually got answers to their questions yesterday during the negotiations and that hopefully the other rapporteurs will also receive answers to the questions they asked. Of course, we do as we usually do, namely that we send answers on the following day or as quickly as we can. That is the way in which negotiations are always conducted. I think I have at least a suspicion that that is why there are no other rapporteurs. And again, I just want to stress: this is not a saving exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151509	Then we have finished Question 17. I would like to thank Mrs Karin Nødgaard and I can also thank the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Now we have to move on to the next minister, and that's the tax minister. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 18, and that's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen asking the question. Here, too, is a co-questioner, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. We shall then have to see if the President can find out, but that certainly does not change the fact that Mr Kellett-Bowman is here. Torsten Schack Pedersen starts with the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151535	The question is: Does the Minister believe that SKAT can refuse to follow a decision of a Motor Appeal Board because SKAT does not feel obliged to base its view of law, as described in Politiken on 20 October 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151549	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151551	Thank you. First of all, I cannot go into or comment on specific cases. I think the questioner is aware of that too. In general terms, however, I can inform you that if a Board of Appeal or, for that matter, another Board of Appeal decides, SKAT is, of course, obliged to comply with the decision. When we talk about cases in which an appeal board decides, it is important to distinguish between cases in which an appeal board takes decisions on a substantive issue and cases in which an appeal board takes decisions on the reopening of a case. In general terms, then, the Board of Appeal decides whether the question is raised, whether it is material or whether it is a matter of reopening. When a Board of Appeal takes a specific decision on a material matter, SKAT must follow the substantive decision on e.g.: amended tax assessment. Where a Board of Appeal decides to reopen the proceedings, it shall require SKAT to re-examine the case. The reopening of proceedings may result both in the same result for SKAT and in a different result for SKAT from what they originally achieved. Thus, regardless of whether a Board of Appeal takes a decision in a substantive case or in an action for revision, SKAT is obliged to comply with the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151712	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151714	That answer comes as no great surprise to me. I guess that's what I expected. But what is the problem, after all, is that there is a good way from the answer given by the Minister to what is being experienced. If I am not going to go too deep in a specific case, the Minister must nevertheless be able to deal with some of the principles that apply. In this case, and I think the Minister has read the articles, it is a question of whether SKAT can make a deduction from the registration fee when a car is exported. There is certainly a case in which it is said that in this deduction that SKAT uses when a registration fee is to be paid in connection with exports, SKAT has taken the view that a marketing contribution and a preparation contribution can be deducted. The DMV has said that there is no legal basis for this. So, there is a decision that says "and it must be said to be material" that SKAT does not have the authority to use the calculation method used by SKAT. It is quite serious, however, that a Motor Insurance Board says that the way in which SKAT calculates refunds, the payment of registration fees in connection with the export of cars, is not legal. How, then, can the Minister think that such a decision does not have material significance? And when SKAT is ordered to look at these cases again, SKAT comes to exactly the same result! I hope, then, that the Minister has dealt with the issue on which it is all concerned. I mean, where does SKAT have the authority to make this deduction? That's what this whole thing is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151905	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen asks very specifically about the specific case, it has to be said, which makes it relatively difficult for me to relate to the specific case. However, I have to refer once again to the fact that if it is a material question for which the Board of Appeal is asked and makes decisions, then SKAT must follow that decision. On the other hand, if the Board of Appeal is asked to reopen the proceedings and decide to reopen the proceedings, then SKAT must do so. If I understand, sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen is right, this is a matter which is being reopened and, without going into the specific case, it has to be said that I have replied very specifically to what is applicable in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151956	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112151958	Well, I think it's very difficult for people to find out what's right. For is the law in force, as one motorist has said: in general terms, in principle, there is no legal basis for making a deduction in the registration tax when it is paid in connection with the export of a car? SKAT says: There is a marketing contribution and a preparation contribution that triggers a deduction. And there it must be interesting now to get the tax minister's assessment of whether SKAT has a tax deduction in general and not in any specific
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152043	I can inform you without having to go into the specific case... what the practice is in relation to this calculation. It is so that SKAT has informed me that it took over the task of carrying out these valuations of used vehicles in 2006. The task was previously carried out by an assessment authority consisting of assessors appointed by the tax minister, and by the three assessors in an assessment district, one was to be technically knowledgeable and one was to be commercial. The two assessors were appointed on the recommendation of the main organisation of car owners, and the third was appointed by the SKAT. SKAT has to a large extent continued its valuation practices, including the advertising and preparation allowances, and it is not possible to determine exactly when this practice has started.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152130	Then we have come so far that the trip has come to the co-questioner, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152135	Thank you. Now I understand that the Minister does not want to interfere in specific cases at this stage, and I suppose that is also very understandable or I do not know how understandable that is. But I take note of that. Then I have to ask a little more hypothetical and theoretical. In a case in which an appeal board states that SKAT's practice is illegal, is it at all reasonable that it is up to the taxpayer to take action? Does the Minister not think it would be more reasonable if it were the tax administration to take action and refer the decision to a higher body if one disagreed? In this case, it seems that it has been going on for seven years; this taxpayer has been spending on lawyers and much more for seven years. I think most people would say there that, when you finally get a say in that appeal board, it should surely be the tax administration that had an obligation to pass on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152234	Since I know that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is a lawyer, I assume, too. Preben Bang Henriksen knows the difference between cases where questions of a material nature and cases where questions of reopening are to be considered. So it is in a hypothetical case that, if you have been asked to take a decision on a matter of a reopening and, at the same time, on matters of a material nature, it is the decision on the reopening that is in force. That is to say that, where appropriate, the SKAT is being ordered to resume proceedings. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Preben Bang Henriksen agrees with me that this is the case in the hypothetical situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152324	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152325	Thanks for the review of my resume. The minister says I'm a lawyer, but I think the difference is that I'm a lawyer and that the minister is a theorist. The fact here is that the citizen has won a case and that SKAT's practice has been declared illegal. And it seems that it is the citizen who must continue a seven-year struggle by activating this case in various bodies. I have to say that I think it is under all criticism, but I understand that the Minister does not share that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152354	Now Mr. President. - The Preben Henriksen is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I think I have examined quite clearly what the difference between the two elements is and that it may be some of the things that might lead to some misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152425	So we're back to the main questioner again. Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and then it's Mr. Bang Henriksen. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152431	What remains is, of course, that if the SKAT does not like it, it will be judged as a specific case, and that is just a pity for the citizen. I find that rather sad. But let me just round it up in relation to where there's a legal basis for making these deductions, which is, of course, the fundamental question. I mean, where does SKAT have a legal basis for that? It is not a matter of legal guidance, it is not a matter of practice. However, as far as I remember with the modest knowledge I gained in law at the Trade College in Thisted at the time, a tax or tax without a legal basis cannot be levied, and that means that there must also be a clear legal basis for making these deductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152521	First of all, then, if the Board of Appeal has been asked to deal with a substantive question, they must do so. If they are asked to take a retrial action, they must do so. And what else they might say in this regard is not relevant to retrial proceedings. What I have to say in relation to the basis is that between 32 000 and 35 000 cars are exported a year. SKAT has informed me that, in order to ensure not only a uniform valuation in these many cases but also a transparency in the valuation, SKAT has laid down administrative guidelines on how the valuation should be made. The guidelines are published in the legal guidance of SKAT. However, an overall assessment of the correctness of the discretionary valuations in each case must always be made and it is considered to be legal certainty in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152613	Then we have dealt with Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Question No 18, but in Question No 18: 19 is the same team setup. It's Torsten Schack Pedersen with Preben Bang Henriksen as a co-questioner, and it's still gone the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152624	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152629	Does the Minister consider it reasonable for SKAT to refuse to agree with the taxpayer because it would be a wasp's nest because of the amount of work and the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152636	As I said, I still cannot go in and comment on specific cases. In general terms, I would point out that, of course, SKAT cannot refuse to deal with cases on the grounds that it would be a wasp's nest because of the amount of work or the case. If there is a taxpayer who feels unfairly treated, the taxpayer can, of course, complain, and that is what should be done. All cases must be properly handled. In the coming years, the expectation is that the Tax Appeals Board will have an extraordinarily large approach to cases. It is important that the processing time can therefore be kept to an acceptable level. The government has therefore prioritised additional resources for the Tax Appeals Agency with approx. 264 million kr. in the years 2014 to 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152720	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152721	Thank you for that answer. I think that what is interesting here is how SKAT acts when there is a decision and SKAT addresses the Tax Appeals Board and says that it will be a wasp's nest if they agree with the citizen. After all, I am pleased that this has been regretted. In other words, it must be very worrying that there is the attitude of an employee that it would be very stressful and a great burden in terms of work if a complaint body were to agree with the citizen and therefore made a recommendation on how the case should be decided and curiously enough it almost landed as it had been recommended. So, does the Minister of Taxation not think that it is very, very worrying if there is a report from the SKAT that a particular decision should fall out in a certain way because otherwise it will be a wasp's nest and incalculable and will require a lot of work, resuming and refunding? I hope, then, that the Minister will agree with me that this is a completely unacceptable approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152839	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152840	I really think I replied very clearly at the outset that I do not of course believe that it is possible to refuse to deal with cases on that grounds, as the questioner has also said. In this context, it is therefore essential to ensure proper treatment. In my view, it is also very crucial that we ensure that the extra amount of cases which will necessarily come and which are expected to be placed on the Tax Appeals Board in the coming years is addressed, and that is also why we have allocated additional resources to the area. But basically, we just have to say that it is a question of ensuring that in the specific case the complainant also goes ahead with this particular case. And I still cannot relate to specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152926	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112152926-2	But what the consequence is, and what the practice is, seems to be unclear to a number of citizens in this country, as to how to interpret individual decisions. And that is where I find it problematic that there is the view that there is. The Motor Appeals Board has said that this is a general problem and that you cannot just do it and, on the other hand, it is just a specific matter. I really hope that the Minister of Taxation will take the initiative to ensure that this is clarified and that there is a practice that is transparent rather than a matter of whether it is one or the other. And when SKAT is asked to resume the proceedings, it is also necessary to say that it is striking from the point of view of legal certainty that one says that one agrees with oneself, despite the fact that the Motor Appeal Board has asked for the matter to be resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153022	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153023	So, again, it is important to state in general that the registration tax law clearly gives SKAT the power to value a second-hand car's normal price, where the car's normal price is a commercial price, which is based on the price of a similar vehicle. It is SKAT that carries out the valuation. Annual exports range from 32,000 to 35,000 cars. In order to ensure a uniform valuation in the many cases, SKAT has laid down administrative guidelines for the valuation of value. So the legal basis is quite clear in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153057	Thank you, Minister. Then there's room for a co-questioner again, and that's Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153103	Now we have heard that the Minister will not deal with the specific issue, so I also have to ask a little abstract here. What is the Minister's position if, in a case running for an appeal board, there is a personal contact between an employee in the tax administration and an appeal board member with a view to providing guidance on how the tax officer thinks the matter should be decided? What is the Minister's view of such personal contact?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153140	I still think that I have answered it at the outset, even in the context of a follow-up question: of course, we should not be able to refuse to deal with a complaint on the grounds stated in the specific case, that is to say, it would be a wasp's nest because of the amount of work and the case. I think that has been made quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153201	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153203	That's not what I asked to apologize for saying the wrong thing. It is more about what the Minister's position is about, that there is a direct contact from a tax officer to an appeal board member for guidance on how the tax officer believes that the appeal board should decide the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153221	I still want to say that, of course, I cannot relate to the specific situation described, but I also think I have made it very clear that the approach that has been used here is not the way it is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153240	Then it's the co-questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153245	I'm just gonna try to get an answer for the last time. After all, it is not a question of whether the Minister thinks it is not right to make a recommendation because it is incalculable in terms of work. The question, of course, is whether, in the view of the Minister, legal certainty is in order, that there is at all the contact, that there is a report from the SKAT on how one would like to see the matter settled. Does the Minister consider that the way things work is entirely legitimate?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153318	So, what the questioner is asking is this specific matter, and I have to say again that I cannot deal with what this particular case is about. It was also clear from the previous question that the authors do not know the difference between material cases and proceedings for revision, and the mere fact that the authors do not control the difference between the two rather basic types of case reflects the fact that it is probably not the best possible form of debate to choose to ask questions about specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153351	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. The Minister for Taxation will remain here for a while, for Question No. 20 is also for the tax minister, and that is by Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153403	Thank you, sir. President. Is it in line with the Minister's view of good legal certainty that in the SKAT one can rely on the confidentiality of a change in the equation guidance in a case, knowing that the change also affects other taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153423	The tax authorities are subject to special and unconditional professional secrecy under the criminal code. This means that SKAT's employees are not allowed to send decisions containing confidential information about specific persons around the organisation. However, there should be no doubt that there must be full transparency about the tax's administrative basis, including SKAT's practice changes, which must be fully accessible to all. Thus, if SKAT considers that e.g. a judgment or other decision is a matter of principle and that it therefore has an impact on SKAT's practice, then it will be made publicly available by sending a steering signal which is published and subsequently incorporated into the legal guidance. This is the legal guidance that employees of SKAT have to base their casework on. The guidance is updated twice a year, and it is SKAT's legal department that assesses whether a judgment or another decision is relevant to SKAT's practice and whether it is therefore necessary to send out a steering signal, etc. The legal guidance thus ensures that uniform decisions are taken and thus contributes to ensuring legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153538	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153540	Thank you. That sounds like reading a circular. Let me then try to explain: when the tax administration makes a negative decision for a taxpayer, the taxpayer will naturally complain about the decision. If, on the other hand, SKAT makes a positive decision for the citizen, that is to say, the citizen agrees that no tax should be paid, then of course the citizen does not complain because the citizen was successful. However, the question naturally arises, when the decision taken by the taxpayer on the basis of the obligation of professional secrecy is taken, of course, how other taxpayers in the same situation are told that a change in practice has taken place. What I am asking is the Minister's duty of supervision in the exercise of his duties, and it is also the duty of supervision when SKAT has specifically covered a decision of professional secrecy. Therefore, it would be appropriate to hear how the Minister manages its supervisory duties in cases where confidentiality has been decreed. In other words, how does the Minister believe that legal certainty for other citizens who are in the same situation but who do not know about the decision is being properly safeguarded? That is, of course, what is at the heart of the matter, and I do not need an answer when reading some guidance from SKAT to the employees. It is quite specific: when you place it with confidentiality and double confidentiality, then not even employees in the same house are told that practice has changed in relation to equation guidance, how does the Minister manage his duty of supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153724	I would very much like to answer that question. Indeed, as a minister, I have an overall supervisory obligation in relation to the Ministry's institutions. My overall supervisory task is designed to include, among other things: is based on the processing of internal audit reports, instructions, performance contracts, annual reports, fixed governance forums and ongoing dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153752	Then it's mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153754	So let me try to ask another way, because the Minister speaks as a walking circular: does the Minister think that it is okay in one case to change the practice in relation to the equation guide, to lay down the decision with confidentiality, and that the content does not appear until two years after, when one knows that there are other taxpayers in the same situation who have been sentenced to tax liability, even prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153824	Now it is the case that, in general, I am not dealing with specific matters, but I know very well that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen would very much like to deal with a specific case, which includes: has been urgently asked about here in the Parliamentary Chamber in 2013 that consultation has been held, and subsequently 28 questions have been answered. And for all these things, it has to be said that the premise that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen lays the foundations for the case in question, the basic premise being the wrong one. And if sir... Claus Hjort Frederiksen wishes to be thoroughly familiar with the correct interpretation of the cases, I can inform you that as late as Friday, the Ministry of Taxation presented to our website a re-examination of the case in question, as Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen was wrong. I recommend him to go to our website and read it carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153913	Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153914	Well, I must express myself very badly. I'm not talking about a specific case. It may be that the tax minister's thoughts operate in a different way. But I seem to be expressing myself unclearly. Is it appropriate, in the Minister's view, to change the practice in relation to the equation guide, to make the decision with confidentiality, so that the result is different treatment of taxpayers in the same situation? I guess you can answer that with a yes or a no. And if the answer is that people in one's situations have to be treated equally, what will the Minister do to ensure that it is treated equally? How will the Minister ensure that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112153954	After all, I already examined how it is that if there are decisions that are changed, new control signals must be issued. I know very well that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen is thinking of a particular case in which I am also well aware that there is a different view of what is the proper progress of the matter. That is why I am simply asking you to look at the previous reviews, which have been made of the case, where it has been clearly presented, and not least at the review that is available on the Tax Ministry's website and which, among other things, includes. is inspired by an article that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen took part last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154034	Then we have finished Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 20. Thank you, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen. We only have one question left, namely Question 21, here at Question Time, but it is also for the tax minister, and then it is Mr. President. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt from the Left asking questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154052	Thank you. I have been looking forward to asking the Minister about the following: In a study from the Danish Entrepreneurs' Association 40 per cent. of those questioned that their biggest daily challenge is the issue of tax and VAT. Does the Minister consider it acceptable that such a large proportion of start-ups should see SKAT stand in the way of growth and job creation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154118	First of all, thank you for your question. Like the questioner, of course, I am very concerned about and interested in the area of entrepreneurship, which I think the questioner is also aware of. As far as I know, it is 41.82 per cent that answers the person concerned. This does not make the matter any less crucial, but nevertheless I would like to make it clear that I am of course pleased and proud that Denmark is very concerned precisely because we are very concerned about how we improve the conditions for entrepreneurs • is the leader in the EU in the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business survey. But it must be taken seriously when, according to the study by the Danish Entrepreneurs Association, to which the questioner also refers, tax and VAT issues are seen as a challenge for entrepreneurs. I am already familiar with the problem and the study, and that is precisely why and on the basis of it I have chosen to start a debate about being an entrepreneur and paying taxes in Denmark, and not least about how we can ensure that the tax becomes something that can be understood for everyone, high as low and therefore also for entrepreneurs. Of course, part of the challenge can also be to understand and understand the rules that are now in the area. I am well aware of that. So we have to look inwards, and that is probably not quite the case today, to say it as it is. Tax can be complicated, and we must constantly find new ways of paying attention to giving entrepreneurs a helping hand. However, I note that entrepreneurs welcome SKAT's information meetings. This suggests that we are already heading in the right direction and that this is a lead that we must continue along. The objective is therefore clear, namely that it should be easier to be an entrepreneur in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154312	Thank you, Minister. It sounds like we can find some common ground in the dialogue. When I ask, it is of course because it is enough for most Danes to come as a surprise that newly-started companies indicate the estate's, i.e. SKAT's, officials and their activities as the biggest obstacle to growth. Otherwise, you would think that it was fierce competition from abroad, wage pressures, difficulties in obtaining liquidity, which are some of the things we normally hear. But one of the biggest challenges is simply that in the house of SKAT you run a regime where you impose charges on people, the first time you think they have done something wrong, your zeal for petites is great. From the political point of view, the government has said, at least before the election campaign was over, that it was going to hunt for the multinational tax eels. Now, sir. Benny Engelbrecht became the tax minister, and the first thing I hear from the tax minister is that we must hit the small entrepreneurs with the big tax hammer. I can actually understand if there are a lot of entrepreneurs who feel that they are being treated less well than one might expect from SKAT. After all, the Minister and I both have a past as responsible in small companies, and I have also experienced direct rude, unpleasant and very little constructive dialogue with SKAT in the companies in which I have been involved. Does the Minister consider that SKAT is service-minded enough to the country's entrepreneurs? Does the Minister consider that it is reasonable that start-up companies should be charged charges for even very small cases at a time when the liquidity and administrative profits of such a company are often significantly lower than those of the large companies? And doesn't the Minister think it's surprising that there are so many who indicate that SKAT is the biggest challenge for growth? These are three clear questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154448	Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154449	I should like to start by correcting a misunderstanding. I understand that the questioner refers to this, because many of those who have read Berlingske's article have been led to believe that I should like to go specifically for entrepreneurs, and that is not the case. On the contrary, my entire mission is precisely to make it as easy as possible and to avoid mistakes. On the other hand, Berlingske's journalists asked a lot about what happens to the few who deliberately cheat and there it was not they who said it with the few; I did so. And there should be no doubt about that either, I do not think the questioner disagrees with me that if there are a few who deliberately start up business with the sole purpose of cheating, then we cannot accept it either. Of course. However, for the very large and wide part of new entrepreneurs, it is more about dialogue, and there is my approach, therefore, that we need to have as good a dialogue with entrepreneurs as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154544	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154545	Well the Minister and I can quickly agree that people of Stein Bagger's casting obviously have nothing to do in Danish business and that they must be punished and beaten down on where they are found. However, I would like the Minister to reply to at least the two questions that we did not get into the speaking time. Could the Minister not imagine putting himself on the side of the citizens instead of on the side of the system and, as one of the first, imposing on his system the removal of reminder fees on very small cases to the smallest companies, recognising that they have fewer resources at their disposal, and perhaps also having a general talk with his system about the tone and the way in which the smallest parts of Danish business are dealt with? When we ask the wise men, they say, after all, that is where a significant part of the new jobs come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154625	What I do myself is start a dialogue. I'm starting an entrepreneurial trip where I'm going to go around and listen to what is of concrete challenges. Among other things: I myself am going to some of the start-up meetings that SKAT is holding, and I would like to stress that it is not to put me ahead and give the good advice. It is, on the other hand, to put me in the rear row and to listen to what is actually happening at these information meetings, and then to listen to the specific entrepreneurs who are then present, to see if they have received the necessary information and whether there are other things. Because I'm very concerned that there's a need for us to be better at this communication. I also agree with the questioner on this point. If there are any specific initiatives that we can take afterwards, then I am very listening to ideas that come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154712	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154713	I take this as a positive statement from the Minister, and I hope, of course, that the Minister will meet many good examples of his trip around the Danish entrepreneurial environment. I have a complete catalogue of small companies whose experiences of the service at SKAT can be compared to a trip through the house of horror in an amusement park. It's not pretty reading you're exposed to. My call to the Minister must be for once as a politician to stand on the side of the customer, so stand on the side of the company and challenge the system's way of thinking about service and also think about how to treat the new companies. It's not that I'm politically after the minister. The Minister and I share a deep interest in the newest companies, which is why I think it is so important for the Minister to be aware of the major problems that SKAT is causing to our smallest traders.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154803	That is why I would also like to highlight some of the measures that we have taken. One of the measures, namely NemCompany, has come about on the basis of a broad political agreement, in which the Left Party too has a part to play, which must make it much easier to start and operate, because communication is becoming much easier. Another measure that SKAT currently has on the drawing board is a possible mobile solution for reporting VAT, so that companies can easily and quickly report VAT via their smartphone. So that is how we are doing different things. I have already managed to talk to entrepreneurs, and they have mentioned examples and pointed out various functionalities on the SKAT website, which they believe can also make their lives easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154855	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt and thank you to the tax minister. This was the last question today, so I can therefore say that Question Time is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141112154906	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 13 November 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I can refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
