ParlaMint-DK_20141204100001	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Behnke Behnke (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 41 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution that dangerous personal crime committed by the parolee should always trigger the residual sentence). The title of the case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 41 is referred directly to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100057	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 9 by Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr-Bæhr (EL), Lars Barfoed (KF) and Edmund Joensen (SP). I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 58 votes (V, DF, EL and KF), 55 abstentions (S, RV, SF, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)). The proposal has been adopted and that concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100209	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100217	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100244	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100255	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 114 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100323	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100342	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 111 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100407	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone here wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100431	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister for Industry and Growth, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100441	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case either, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100451	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 114 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100520	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100531	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 106 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100600	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100614	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 56 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 53 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100652	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is the rapporteur of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100708	As I also said at second reading, we in the SF believe that a law on employee investment companies could be a very good idea. We welcomed the bill very much when it came, but we also think that there are really major problems in its formulation. We believe that when employees have to make their wages available and possibly accept a reduction in wages in order to ensure the survival of their businesses, they also need to know with certainty that this is a company in crisis. We also think it is unreasonable that there should not be a greater degree of veto rights or participation than has been proposed in the legislative proposal, and we also find it problematic that there is no clear definition of when a company is in crisis. I do not think anyone in here wants employees to act inexpensive overdraft for companies. But from the SF's point of view, it is also important that we are present here. This is a trial system, so we are voting in favour, but we intend to continue to table the amendments as we have done together with Enhedslisten, which we think could do this much better and guarantee employees more rights in return for the risk they show. I would like to call for a very careful look at the agreements that will be made on the basis of this law, and I am sure that the trade union movement will do so too. With those comments, the SF will vote in favour. We are critical of elements, but in future we will continue to try to improve this bill by means of amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100836	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204100843	That's a strange suggestion. Now the Danish business community wants employees to be available with wage shares if a company is in crisis and if the company has not managed to get a bank or someone else to help itself in the critical situation. This means that extreme risk capital must be made available. It is quite fantastic that we have now come so far that the free market, which will manage everything itself, must now lay down on its crying knees to grab the employees' money even without giving them any guarantees. I looked down on the Minister for Business and Growth when we had the second reading. I thought he would try to contribute a little bit to the debate on the amendments we had tabled. But no, he wouldn't. All the amendments are based on the comments made by the trade union movement, warnings that, if this bill is not corrected, it is, if possible, worse than that made by the NNF and the slaughterhouse at Bornholm this summer. And that means that we are now in a situation where even a Social Democratic minister is putting forward something that is more employer-friendly than what the trade union movement itself has done and does not listen at all to the comments that have been made by the trade union movement. I find it embarrassing that we are in such a situation, and I find it embarrassing that we are now opening up the door to employers to press employees to put money on the table in an extremely risky situation with a high probability that they will never get their money back. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101038	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101042	First of all, I would like to thank the SF for stating that they will support the proposal. I also think it is important, as Mrs Bech Poulsen also pointed out, to say that this is an experimental scheme. This is unknown in many areas, where we have, of course, tried, both through amendments and through the proposal, to take account of all the problems which may be involved in reducing the proposal, if I may say so. But the idea itself, the idea that there is the possibility of making this type of investment, this type of company, which has actually contributed in one case here to saving a job, is good, and I am glad that I have received SF's support for it too. Well, may I say to Mr. Knox? Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten after the tirade he now fired from up here on the platform: that is so, I think, an excellent example and a very fine illustration of what it means to belong to the part of the trade union movement where Mr. Christian Juhl comes from. It is a place where you stand and shout through the windows, into the negotiating rooms, and usually never get any influence whatsoever. All the other places in the trade union movement are where you sit down, where you create concrete results and where you make sure you have influence. That's the difference. That is the difference between the Social Democratic Workers' Movement and the Communists in the other place where you can stand and shout. That's the way it is, and it's always been like that. At the moment, at least over on Bornholm, we can rejoice that more than 200 people and their families have a place of work and a job to stand up to every morning. They can welcome this because some people have entered the negotiating room, taken responsibility and made sure that concrete results are achieved. If so, sir. Christian Juhl and the others who had been placed for the order over there had been available to this day. That is the difference between achieving results and not achieving results. And it is such an excellent illustration of how we work in the government and how to work in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101244	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101247	I thank the Minister very much for moving up to the platform. It's nice to be able to discuss a little bit with him. I would like to say that I thank you very much for the nice words and the great compliment. I myself have a feeling that I have had a very good influence on the trade union movement and also on the jobs we have had in our town, so we do not need to discuss that today. What I would like to discuss is why, on the whole, the Minister does not include the comments of the Social Democratic trade union movement, in other words the comments they have made on the draft law. Not one of their objections has been included in this proposal. That is why we tabled the amendments on the part of the Enhedslisten, because at least to tighten up a little on the legislative proposal that has now been made. And that means that this is a self-defense table for employers; it means that employers can press employees who are in a critical situation because they are losing their jobs, and that is probably not the intention, even for a right-wing social democrat like the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101352	There I have to say to the questioner that while the questioner was standing somewhere shouting about everything that was wrong, the Social Democratic trade union movement was sitting in the negotiating room and getting changes in relation to this bill. So lots of amendments have actually been made, lots of improvements have been made in dialogue and in cooperation with the people who will take responsibility. But Mr. Christian Juhl and his kinsmen were not at the negotiating table, because they stood somewhere else and shouted out, and that is the difference between it. In fact, very, very large and significant concessions have been made to the trade union movement and we have had a very, very good and constructive dialogue with the trade union movement so that they have been comforted in this proposal. That is why it is again an illustration of where the difference lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101434	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101436	Well then, I would just like to ask the Minister in all silence to give one example of the trade union movement's comments on the bill being brought into the amendments. Not one of them has been brought in. We have tabled, I believe, 17 amendments which the trade union movement itself has made as comments. Not one of those proposals has been brought into the bill with the Minister's goodwill. So I'd like to hear, where is it? And are the comments they have sent completely indifferent? It is there, of course, that the substantial change and improvement could come; it was if the comments submitted by the trade union movement were taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101514	If I am not mistaken, I actually think I recall that Mr. Christian Juhl is a member of 3F. I've sat with the entire 3F's day-to-day management and reviewed the entire bill. A multitude of changes have been made precisely to take account of the criticism that 3F had here. Let me give you an example of this: when an experimental system has been set up in this area and when a company has to be specifically approved in connection with such a system, then it is a consultation phase in which, among other things, we are going to have to consult. Involves the professionals. This is an example of what the trade union movement has asked for. There have been clear conditions in and about the rights of the members of the board; there have been opportunities in relation to repayment and other matters. There have been plenty of things that we have given ourselves in relation to, because we wanted to have a compromise on it. Therefore again: There were some who were in the work clothes; some who did something.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101602	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else want to make a statement? There isn't. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101608	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101639	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101652	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 101 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101727	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101745	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101824	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101844	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 9 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204101928	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102011	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102037	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102053	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that this bill should also go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102201	The debate is open. Mrs Karen Jespersen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102216	The draft law should make it more advantageous to implement energy-saving measures in commercial buildings. And in this way it can be said that this is a proposal that follows on from the 2012 major energy agreement, where an important part of the improvements in energy consumption is based on the need to improve energy savings. A similar bill has already been adopted for private landlords, and now this proposal is about landlords of business leases. What is now going to be possible is to implement energy-saving measures which could mean increased rent for all tenants, even if there are a certain number of people who are opposed to it. It must be the case that two thirds of the tenants are in favour of the changes being made, and it is also the case that there are certain rules on how much rent must be increased in relation to the savings that it also brings for the tenants. We think it is a good proposal that we support. One might say that it is perhaps just a small step along the way, because one of the major challenges will be precisely to implement energy-saving measures, but we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Joel as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102408	Thank you. It is true that the bill we are discussing here is part of it, one might say, the strategy for energy renovation of housing, which the government has presented in general, and now we are addressing business rentals. It's like 40 percent. of our energy consumption today actually goes to housing, which is why it is a very, very central area to address. We have had the problem that, although everyone could have an interest in making a renovation, both those who received a cheaper consumption bill, a cheaper energy bill, those who got a better house, the community, the landlords, all of them, it was not certain that one could agree on that, among other things. Because those who had to bear the cost of renovating did not get the prize on the saved heating bill, if that is the case. Therefore, it is an important step that this proposal ensures that landlords can undertake renovation, even if there is a small minority against it, provided that the energy improvement is profitable in a total economic assessment, that is to say that what you invest in making the building more energy-friendly is more than offset by the saving on the heating and electricity bills, and that an agreement has been reached with a qualified majority of the tenants, which must include at least two thirds of the property's gross floor area. So now you have broken down the barrier that could be where a single tenant could be a stop-block compared to something that for both the landlord, the other tenants and the community would make sense. That is why, of course, we also support this proposal. It is a step on the way to achieving our green ambitions; it is a step on the way to getting energy renovations up to speed and, of course, the business leases must also be included. We look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102601	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102609	Thank you for that, President. This bill is to be seen in addition to the law on the energy savings package for rentals in private rentals. The aim is to create a significantly improved incentive for the implementation of energy savings in buildings exclusively leased out to non-residential buildings, thereby solving the so-called paradoxical problem. The proposal makes it possible for the landlord of commercial leases to carry out energy improvements on the property in accordance with the agreement of a qualified majority of the tenants. Then you can ask for an increase in the rent of all the tenants on the property, that is to say the minority of the tenants who did not wish to conclude the contract. It is a condition for the landlord's ability to give notice of rent increases for all leases in the property that an agreement on the rent increase can be reached with a number of tenants whose leases together represent at least two thirds of the property's gross floor space. With this bill, the landlord, unlike today, is given the opportunity to give notice and carry out an increase in rent on both the improvement and maintenance parts. However, the amount of the rent increase may not exceed an amount corresponding to the saving in the consumption costs of the tenants in the execution of the energy workers. It must therefore be a total economical improvement in energy efficiency. The proposal then means that the benefits of energy-saving work are shared among the parties rather than primarily benefiting the tenants. At the same time, the total economic requirement implies that the total rent and energy payments of the tenants will not be increased by the implementation of total economically viable energy improvements. It's part of a deal we're in. We are also looking forward to the committee reading and we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102814	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102822	Thank you. With this bill, the landlords of commercial properties will be able to claim an increase in rent on the basis of energy efficiency investments, as long as this increase in rent does not exceed the tenant's own savings in energy efficiency. In this way, the landlord gets an economic profit by energy-efficientising, and the tenants do not get an increase in gross expenditure. At the same time, our overall energy consumption decreases, and that is a good thing, we like that and it brings us closer to the realization of our green ambitions. So in more than one sense, it's a good solution. The core of the bill is thus based on the energy agreement, after which the Danish energy supply will be covered by renewable energy in 2050. In addition, heating and electricity supply must be independent of fossil fuels by 2035. These are objectives that we can only achieve by acting, among other things. precisely know that we are making efficiency improvements in the energy consumption of our buildings and homes • there is great potential. In July, some of the initiatives in the Danish Parliament came through in relation to private rentals, and the purpose of this bill is then to ensure energy improvements in buildings and housing in commercial buildings. That is the reason for the proposal, which we in the Radical Left consider to be a good proposal and which we can fully support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204102959	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103008	Thank you. I speak today on behalf of Mr. Eigil Andersen, who is SF's housing rapporteur, but certainly has the share in this case that it is a follow-up to the overall energy agreement, so I recognise the basic thinking of the proposal. We, like the other rapporteurs, welcome the proposal, see it as a step forward and, as others have said, the proposal stresses that we are actually implementing what is an economic rationale for achieving it and that no one can put a foot in the door to implementing the efficiency measures. I also think that the fact that you get it certified by a third party is right and that this is an important part, and I am also in favour of it being included in the funding as proposed here. That is to say, even if someone would say that they really do not want to be involved, we can at least say, when we now adopt this, that even when it is implemented, it will actually be in the interests of those who want to put their feet in the door. So I think it's only win-win, also for the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103135	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no representative of the Enhedslisten. Am I the one who missed something? It's not. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103148	The proposal represents a minor liberalisation of the rental market for commercial property, and we support all the liberalisations of the housing market and the commercial property market in Denmark, so we support the bill. But it is only a very small liberalisation. The landlords point out that it still doesn't pay to make a lot of energy renovations when this bill has been implemented, because it's only in case it's totally economical to carry out the energy renovation, that landlords can do it under this set of rules, and that means that there has to be a saving. After the rent increase, there has to be a saving for business rents so that it can be implemented under this set of rules, and we do not think that goes far enough. There must be greater opportunity to carry out energy renovations as well. What is the principle for us in all rentals, including commercial properties, is that landlords and tenants should be able to agree with each other what rules apply when the lease is concluded for rent increases in the future. It should not be something in which the Folketing interferes. If a company would like to rent an office room, and the company would like to agree with the landlord that rent increases can be made under certain conditions, then it should not be the case that the Folketing says that the agreement must not be made • we know better. That is why this is not a large enough liberalisation, but it is a small liberalisation, and we support every step in the right direction, and that is why we support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103337	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103344	But also on the conservative side, we support this small proposal which, after all, is a step in the right direction. We have very, very many buildings in this country, where a great deal can be done to save really, very much energy. A great deal needs to be done about this. Many of the places where it is quite obvious that it should be done have not been done. This proposal can then, to some extent, help to ensure that some of the renovation is carried out, but it is really a proposal that goes with belt and braces. I mean, really. Not only must it be totally economical, it must go up against the subsequent increase in rent, but it is also the case with this proposal that a minority of tenants will still be able to block completely common sense, which would otherwise save a great deal of energy and would not cost the tenants concerned anything. We feel that this is still problematic. However, it is better than it has been, and that is why we support the proposal. We also hope, in the subsequent announcement, that the Minister will ensure very clear rules for this with what is totally economically profitable. I am pleased that the Minister will nod so that it will not be a host of bureaucracy, but it will be something about to do for the landlords concerned. There are a great many rules, including too many rules, which make energy renovation difficult, but the proposal is a step in the right direction and we therefore support it. Then I can't help but say that the consultation note from the Ministry says that it doesn't make any sense to allow a rent over market rent. No, but look, if the rent could be higher, then a higher rent would be the market rent. In other words, if there are two parties that agree to pay something more than what is allowed, then that is what per year. definition must be market rent. That is the definition of market rent. So, well, yeah, I don't know. But that is just an expression of the fact that in this area there are very many rules that make it extremely difficult to do good and sensible things. Now we make it a little easier to do good and sensible things and save the environment a lot. We welcome and support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Town, Housing and Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103638	I would like to start by thanking you for the incredibly positive reception of the draft law and the comments that have come from the various rapporteurs. It is interesting to see that there were also several energy rapporteurs, which means that the differentiation extends wider than only to the housing rapporteurs. That's nice. After all, the draft law comes from our energy agreement 2012-2020, which is to convert the entire Danish energy system, so the energy supply in Denmark from 2050 is covered by renewable energy and the heat supply is independent of fossil fuels from 2035. I think it was sir. Jens Joel, who said that 40%. of our CO2 An important means of achieving this is to address existing housing and buildings. In May, we presented our energy renovation strategy in the government, which contains a number of initiatives that will lead to more energy-efficient buildings in Denmark in the future. In July, a number of the initiatives were implemented in the form of legislation for private rentals with a wide-ranging settlement. With this bill, we will continue to ensure that clean commercial properties also contribute to a reduction in energy consumption in the total building mass. So I am very pleased that the draft law solves the so-called 'paradox' problem of business rental. That is the problem with the fact that you have not actually been able to raise the rent with what was the saving for the tenants who might be. It is a proposal that the landlords have long and persistently pointed to as a barrier to investing and implementing energy improvements in private rental properties. The problem is that both tenants and landlords and society could benefit from the fact that even more energy renovations were carried out, with resulting economic savings and environmental improvements, but they are not being carried out, as I say, because there has not been a sufficient financial incentive to carry them out, and I believe that this bill will correct this. There I am pleased with the support that has been provided. In fact, landlords will be able to claim rent increases on the basis of the whole and reasonable investment in energy improvements if the rent increase does not exceed the energy cost savings of the tenants. So the rents don't get like Mr. Steen Gade said that's what you say over in Jutland, namely a win-win situation. One suggestion: three winners, one might say. As a follow-up to the bill, an announcement will be made, and that is what Mrs Charlotte Dyremose said about total economy. We will endeavour to make it as clear and unambiguous as possible, as we have seen for private rentals, and here we will lay down the detailed rules for the operation of the scheme in practice. I thank you for your agreement and look forward to a very good committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204103952	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Urban and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104011	The debate is open. It's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104037	A proposal has been put forward to introduce an experiment on bottom-up and progressive taxation on energy and water, with a view, on the one hand, to counteracting the social impact of green taxes and, on the other, to increasing the motivation to reduce over-consumption. The proposers state that, as part of a general climate action, it should be tested whether a change in the tax concept for energy and water can make taxes more socially fair and increase the incentive to save water and energy in households. It is important to weigh up the concerns of a tax model with a base deduction and tax increase in increased consumption and whether a base deduction model is the right way to go. If the consideration is to compensate low incomes for high energy taxes and increase savings efforts in households, then the government does not believe that a bottom-up tax deduction model with progressive taxes is the right way to go. There are several reasons for this. One of the problems of a base deduction model is the actual determination of the base deduction, because what is normal consumption? Should the base deduction apply only to low-income households? Should it be fixed per year? person in households with low incomes? How should the model really be designed? To determine normal consumption e.g. per household, singles will have to pay a higher fee per. person compared to households where there are more people. To be determined as normal consumption per year. person in the household, this will mean administrative burdens, since the number of persons in the household would have to be measured and reported on a regular basis, i.e. such a bureaucratic process in which to determine who lives in a household on an ongoing basis. Another problem is who should administer such a bottom-up deduction. The tax system is designed in such a way that the utilities are registered with SKAT, which in practice administers the charges. The administration of a base deduction model and progressive charges will therefore impose burdens on utilities regardless of how they choose to design a model. This additional burden will ultimately have to be borne by all consumers. A third problem is that the introduction of a base allowance and progressive charges on individual heating modes, such as oil for own oil boiler, can hardly be managed in practice. Furnace oil can be purchased from many different suppliers. Who is to check whether normal consumption has been exceeded and whether tax should be paid for any increase in consumption? Finally, if the consideration is to increase the incentive to save on, for example, water and energy in households, there will be households that do not make full use of the bottom allowance and thus do not have incentives to save on consumption, as there is no tax on this part of it. Overall, the government estimates that a tax model with bottom deductions and progressive charges for households will not be the right way to go and will be associated with major problems in relation to the following elements: designing a balanced model, significant administrative burdens and various incentives to save energy and water consumption. In addition, the Government considers that in recent years new taxes, such as the fat tax and the security of supply tax, have been experimented with without much success. We therefore believe that there are better and simpler ways of compensating low-income groups, for example. via the green check. The green cheque is a tax-free compensation for high energy and environmental taxes targeted at low and middle income groups. The tax system may target reliefs in relation to income, while there may not be a direct relationship between income and electricity consumption, etc. Basically, taxes should not be used to pursue distribution policies. This is a task for the transfer and damage system in particular. From the year 2013 onwards, the government, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, has introduced a supplement to the green check, which is specifically targeted at families with low incomes, including benefit recipients, early and old-age pensioners. There are parliamentarians pensioners in my speech, but that can hardly be true; I don't think it's a low-income group! In conclusion, I would like to mention that the proposers have indicated that in the current tax system there is no extra charge for over-consumption. That is not correct. Danish taxes on households are quite significant. Every time you turn on the outlet, it costs more than a penny apiece. used kilowatt-hour in tax and VAT, and to that comes CO 2 So it is not true that a consumption does not cost extra. With the current tax system, an incentive has been created to save consumption for all households. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104600	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104603	It always makes an indelible impression on me when a tax minister rejects a proposal because it will lead to increased bureaucracy. I think that's a tough shot. However, I would just like to ask the tax minister something else, namely whether the tax minister agrees with me that the tax system we have today in the green area, for example. in the field of energy, as paragraph 1 leads to greater inequality in our society, and as paragraph 2 does not function effectively in ensuring the most environmentally sensible use of energy. And wasn't it time to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104642	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104644	What is the most effective methods to use in relation to taxes on different types of energy is, of course, a big and exciting debate that one can take, especially in a very broad conciliation circle. What I have to say clearly is that when compensation is made through a green cheque, at least we are still ensuring that the income groups, which are the lowest and which receive the green cheque as compensation, also have an incentive to save on the consumption they otherwise have, because they get the cheque as compensation regardless of the size of consumption. It is indeed very healthy that, if you have a tax on energy or whatever else, you should ensure that what is the real purpose of such a tax, namely to provide an incentive to reduce consumption, is also incorporated into the model itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104744	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104746	The government, together with the right, has largely removed the green taxes paid by the business community. There you are fully aware that they have an effect. However, when it comes to the poorest in Denmark, it is considered that the level of taxation that we have today is reasonable. Is it really the view of the Minister of Taxation that today we have a tax system for example? the energy sector, which is helping to create the right use of renewable energy sources and the right effort to save energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104819	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104821	I think it is true that there is a continuous debate on this subject, but here we are talking about a principle which is about how to compensate the low-income groups. And the principle of ensuring that in all cases there is an incentive to save where it makes sense, regardless of how you arrange the individual tax, but then compensate the lowest income groups, I think it makes very good sense. For there will in fact be an extra incentive to make savings in their consumption, especially for the lowest income groups. That can be quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104900	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Then it's mr. Jens Ejner Christensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204104912	After all, the motion for a resolution we are debating today concerns the establishment of an experimental system of bottom-up and progressive taxes on energy. The proposal is not, of course, a new idea, but a re-submission of a proposal for an experimental scheme from the Finance Act back in 2001 concluded by the then SR government with the support of the SF and Enhedslisten. However, the proposal was taken off the table when the VK government took over government responsibility in 2001. The idea is now, as at the time, to set up an experimental scheme in which a bottom-up tax on energy and a progressive taxation of energy are introduced in a defined residential area. The experiment is carried out by calculating a standard consumption and if households subsequently use less energy than the standard consumption calculated, they are rewarded with a grant corresponding to the current tax rate for the saved amount of electricity and water. That model should provide the same incentives to save energy and water as a definite bottom-down deduction model. Subsequently, the study will then be evaluated and form the basis for further development of a general model that can be rolled out in the rest of society. The green taxes amount to approx. 36 billion kr. and is paid for a large part by Danish households. Everyone pays the same tax and, contrary to the tax system, there is no progression. However, the high level of taxation and the lack of progression have been attempted against the introduction of a green cheque back in 2010 and the size of the cheque depends on the household's income and the number of children in the household. First of all, let me acknowledge that Enhedslisten is concerned that energy taxes are very high. In the Left we are prepared for energy taxes to be reduced, as large parts of Danish society are hard hit by these high taxes. Not only do the families suffer, but the companies and, in particular, the manufacturing industry also suffer. So far so good. The fact is, however, that if you make progressive taxation in the energy sector, there are some who have to pay for the lower taxation for a particular group. These will probably be those who use a lot of energy, and that will ultimately mean our businesses. Of course, we must save on the scarce resources, and so must the Danish companies. They are good at that, but there are sectors that require a lot of energy, no matter what you do, such as the manufacturing industry, and it will be the companies that will pay. They already pay high energy taxes, and with Enhedslisten's proposals and wishes in the area of taxation they will pay even more. The consequence may, unfortunately, be that another tax increase is exactly what makes the cup float over, so production stops in Denmark and moves abroad. It can move to China or somewhere else in Asia, where you do not have near the same energy taxes as we have in Denmark and where, moreover, you can pollute much more than we do at home. It certainly does not benefit the environment. Then we can be quite as green as we want to be, here in Denmark. Production can also move to closer skies, Germany or Sweden, where you also have lower energy taxes than we have in Denmark. Indeed, our neighbouring countries have realised that it is no use to introduce towering energy taxes if they continue to want to maintain production jobs. As I said, we in the Left are of course in favour of saving energy for all of us. The Left believes that the way forward is not to raise taxes, but instead to create positive incentives to save energy. It could, for example, be done. through energy renovation in private homes. Unfortunately, with the support of Enhedslisten, the government has chosen to remove the housing job scheme and thus the grant which has been successfully awarded to, among others. to isolate and perform energy-friendly renovations. It has been a scheme which has been beneficial both for the environment and for Danish employment. The Left cannot vote in favour of the proposal before us today. In practice, this would mean an increase in taxation in the energy sector for certain groups. That is the wrong way to go, and that is why the Left is voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105422	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105425	I think so, sir. Jens Ejner Christensen underestimates the work that the Left has done to eliminate and reduce energy taxes paid by business. In fact, the Left has had a great deal of luck with this, and Mr. Jens Ejner Christensen is so happy, while others can be less happy about it. I do not think that it has been the low-income groups who have been in the forefront of using this housing job scheme. However, I would just like to ask whether I should understand what the rapporteur of the Left is saying here, so that if we are able to ensure that the energy taxes that the economically most disadvantaged are not paid are not passed on to business, is the Left prepared to discuss a more socially equitable distribution of energy taxes in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105512	As we in the Left have understood the proposal, this proposal should be financed within the framework of energy taxes already today. And there, according to our calculations, if you save one place, you will have to demand something more in another place, and it is on the basis of the deviate that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105532	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105534	This means that even if we free the business community, the Left will not risk some of the wealthier Danes paying something in favour of the most economically disadvantaged. I understand that, and that is why, when we did not introduce the security of supply tax, the Left worked hard to ensure that as much of the funding as possible was obtained by cutting down on the green cheque that goes to the most economically disadvantaged. And then you can just say that for the Left it is basically about the fact that you do not like a redistribution that takes away from the richest Danes and is given to the poorest.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105607	We in the Left would like to help create incentives to save energy, but we do not want the redistribution envisaged in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105618	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jens Joel as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105633	Thank you. This proposal is basically about ensuring that we save as much energy as possible and that at the same time we have a social profile and help some of them with the lowest incomes. Of course, everything else will be hardest hit by an energy tax, which is the same amount per kilowatt-hour from the outlet, whether you make DKK 200,000. or more than 1 million kr. a year. On the part of the Socialists, we have great sympathy for the task of trying to help some of society's low-income groups pay the energy bill that we all contribute to paying, but which, of course, for some, is particularly large. If we are worried about this motion for a resolution, it is because, as the tax minister has also said, there are a number of political, administrative and practical problems in it. First of all, I find it very difficult from a political point of view to define what normal consumption or reasonable consumption is. So, should we in and define how long one must be in a hot bath in the morning before one can say whether it is a reasonable consumption of our heat in society? I also think that if you finally laid down that consumption and said that then we put it a little higher to be sure that people can have for their daily warm bath, at least in the winter, then we risk that the incentive to save is too small if you don't get to the ceiling, depending on how this bottom allowance is arranged. It is also clear what the Minister of Taxation has said that several different sources of heating can be found. And if you are around different places to buy oil for an oil pine or otherwise get your heat from different places, it can be very difficult to keep track of whether you have actually, so to speak, gained more of the total energy consumption than you are entitled to with your bottom allowance. That is why, in our view, it would be both politically difficult and administratively very difficult to keep track of what kind of consumption is considered reasonable and how it is checked that each of us does not spend more than that. We will continue to hold on to the fact that the lowest incomes must of course be compensated so that they do not pay an energy bill corresponding to what the rest of us, who have a higher income to do with, pay. And there I simply think it is more effective to look at what household income is and then pay out a green cheque, which we also agreed with Enhedslisten and SF to add from 2013. We think this is an administratively easier and more targeted way of sending a tax-free cheque directly to the families that have the least money. Otherwise, it must be ensured that the tax system ensures that you pay for your energy consumption, no matter how large or small it is, but that we keep a social balance in the total cost of households with the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105944	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204105948	I think it is perhaps difficult to fully understand the Socialist rapporteur's refusal to make an attempt. Agreements have been made in the past to introduce taxes which proved technically impossible to implement. Then the agreements were made, typically because they were made together with the Left. You can deal with anything there. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Jens Joel, if I should understand the views of the Socialists in the sense that the green cheque should be set up. After all, we have just reduced it because we did not introduce the security of supply tax. It was really important for the right in Danish politics that part of it was also paid by lowering the green cheque. I just wanted to ask you if Mr. Cole... Jens Joel thinks that it is a road to go back to raising the green check; whether there is an openness to it by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110038	That is quite right, as Mr. Per Clausen says that it was important for the right, when we had to roll back the security of supply tax, that part of it was paid with the green cheque. It is not, of course, our preferred funding, but it was part of the compromise, and when we said yes to it, it was because we could see that it did not put the families with the lowest income at a disadvantage when we made this change of tax. But it is true that what you can take as an expression of is that if we are to compensate families with low incomes for energy taxes, we think that the green cheque is a better way to go than the discussion about a bottom allowance, simply because it is both difficult to manage and because it is difficult to determine what the bottom allowance should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110122	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110124	It is true that we made that agreement because we managed to get the Left to accept that top tax was raised. Then they got to pay a little bit, and that's good. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Jens Joel: Jens Joel did not also agree that, in addition to the social aspect, we also have a problem with the fact that the energy tax system we have today does not really support the switch to renewable energy and the energy savings we would like to see through? So even though this proposal is being accused of being more complicated and bureaucratic than our tax system is, by the way, pretty well managed to become even more complicated, I just want to ask Mr. Jens Joel, if we do not agree that we are in any case faced with a review of the existing system, in which both energy savings and the need for greater social equality must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110212	Well, I agree very much with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that, when we are to have larger amounts of renewable energy into our energy system, this requires a major shift in our energy taxes. Right now, we have an investigation work on a tax and subsidy analysis in progress, and on the back of it, once we have obtained the results of the investigation, we must of course discuss how we set up our system so that we save as much energy as possible, but also so that we use renewable energy as possible. And then we come back to another, you might say, ambiguity in this proposal. In my world, it is not as problematic whether you use wind power to have light in your apartment or whether you use coal current. And it can be said that it just adds some of the nuances in this discussion of how difficult it is to determine what a beneficial and what harmful energy consumption is. I believe that, with the present structure, we have solved a number of problems, but we have certainly not created a system that will enable us to switch to renewable energy as much as we would like. That is what we are addressing after the completion of the grant and tax analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110317	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mikkel Dencker as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110325	I would like to begin by saying that in the Danish People's Party we reject the resolution. Frankly, I wondered when I read the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten here about introducing a base allowance for energy taxes and a progressive tax on energy and water. In the Danish People's Party we are actually very satisfied with the way our energy taxes are linked together, not that we think they have the customize size we would like to see them lower; but the way they are charged is at least easy to manage and easy to understand for all parties, namely that they are paid for the amount used, i.e. per year. kilowatt-hour electricity consumption, per. litres of water and per litre of water; consumed heat unit. It's a fair way of calculating it, and it's an easy way to deal with it, and it's something everyone can figure out when there's a fixed price on these goods and a fixed charge on them. What Enhedslisten is proposing is that there should be a base deduction and then a progressive tax. It almost sounds like you want to introduce something similar to income tax on energy taxes. It will only give, I think, a heavy bureaucratic system, which the Minister also mentioned here in the first place. How to determine what the base deduction should be? And how are you going to put this progressive tax together so that you get a revenue and I can read in the proposal here that Enhedslisten wants it to be the same revenue that comes into the charges and that at the same time it will also work as intended? In fact, I believe that such a tax system, as the Enhedslisten proposes, will counteract what I otherwise perceive as Enhedslisten's energy policy, namely to provide incentives to save energy. Because you have a base deduction and you have a low consumption, well then you have no great incentive to save energy, because the next kilowatt hour or the next consumed litre of water is basically not subject to taxes and is therefore very cheap to consume. This really means increasing consumption rather than reducing it. So there I do not actually understand the logic of Enhedslisten making this proposal when you have Enhedslisten's energy policy in mind. Then I would also say that there are some administrative problems associated with the system here. How is the individual supplier or distributor of energy products to calculate the tax on these products being sold? It is the case that a number of energy products are translated into free trade. For example, heating oil can be thought of at some gas stations, and fuels of many kinds can be bought in supermarkets. How are the supermarkets or service stations to charge tax when they do not know how much consumption the customer has in advance? So it is a bureaucratic jungle that we move into with such a proposal here, and we in the Danish People's Party have no intention of participating in it. Although we can see that there is something sympathetic about people with low incomes not having to pay so much in taxes, it is therefore a proposal that will create more chaos than it will create order and justice. So we have to reject it and say that if we are to do something that is aimed at reducing energy taxes for people with low incomes, then it is an improvement in the green cheque that the Danish People's Party invented at the time, which we think is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110717	Sir. Per Clausen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110719	I'd like to ask Mr. Mikkel Dencker, if he does not agree with me that one might well imagine a situation in which too much energy is generally used in a society, but where it might be fair to say that because some citizens are actually forced to spend too little for economic reasons, while others spend too much, it might be sensible to set up a tax system so that it actually hit those who used too much, and not those who really spent too little because they could not afford to spend more.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110751	The way in which we have put our tax system together in the field of energy is by having a thesis that energy consumption creates some pollution and that it is the polluter who pays. That, then, is what results from the fact that we have a tax which is settled on the basis of actual consumption, and I think that is actually fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110814	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110815	After all, justice can be defined on the basis of one's own concept of justice. There is no doubt that the economic burden of our current tax system is considerably greater for people with low incomes than for people with high incomes. That's why the green check works, and that's why it creates greater social inequality when you put down the green check. That is why we had the whole debate on it when we did not introduce the security of supply tax and where the cut was to be put there. Well, then, sir. Mikkel Dencker does not agree that basically we now have a green tax system that creates greater social inequality? That is the reality that the Danish People's Party then accepts: that such a tax system exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110855	I recognise that energy taxes and energy expenditure are more in a budget that is not so large than in a large budget. That is true, and it is a social bias. I recognise that, and that is also why we in the Danish People's Party were able to convince the previous government that the green cheque should be introduced as compensation for raising the green taxes. We then introduced the green cheque to compensate people with low incomes for increasing energy taxes. I think that is a simple and simple system and that is the way we should go if we are to improve conditions for people with low incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110934	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204110942	Thank you. On the basis of an overall assessment, the Radical Left cannot support this motion for a resolution, and now that the Minister of Taxation has explained the overall assessment of the proposal in a very fine and comprehensive manner, there is no reason why I should be flogging it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111016	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111028	Thank you. After all, the proposal is an attempt to revive the agreement concluded with the 2001 Finance Act between the then government, which consisted of the Social Democracy and the Radical Left, and then the SF and the Enhedslisten. I was not myself in the Folketing at the time, but remember that the agreement was made, and it may also be that there are some in this room who remember that the agreement was made. What I want to stress here is that it was an attempt. Many people talk about it as if it were a proposal that had to be implemented one hundred percent and immediately, but it was not. So, the proposal was about making an experiment in a mixed housing form with 100-500 households, and people had to do it voluntarily. So it was not a big and violent initiative, one might say, but it was an attempt, precisely because this has been discussed for many years. And from the SF we also have great sympathy for the basic idea of it. But when it was presented as an attempt and still does it here on the Enhedslisten side, it is probably because one recognizes that there are a number of administrative things that can be difficult. And there is. It was interesting to hear the tax minister. I think that the Minister for Taxation had the same manuscript with which his predecessor was involved in the negotiations in 2001 or with which the then Finance Minister was involved in the negotiations in 2001. And I think that these were the same arguments that the bourgeois government saw then dropped the project with, and now we have them again. But there is nothing new about this being, of course, administratively more difficult than what we have. That's why we had to do an experiment. And we're positive about making an attempt at this point. Then I would say that, of course, something has happened between 2001 and today, and that is, of course, that a green cheque has been introduced which solves part of this problem. Perhaps that was some of the things we could look at in committee, i.e. how much the green check really solves this problem. And as Mr. Per Clausen has said in a remark here and it was also the Minister's recital that we helped to add to the green check precisely to solve some of these distribution problems. Then I would like to say something about green taxes and distribution effects. Some people do not care, I think, that part of the green taxes actually turns the heavy end downwards and I do not think that is very sympathetic. But I also think that there may be some tendency in the public debate to say that all green taxes are turning socially wrong. They don't. Car taxes, for example. There it is those with the highest revenues that pay the most, because they are simply the ones who can afford to buy the BMW. They are happy about it, and I usually thank them for paying so much in tax, but that is where we have a progressive green tax. So it is not the case everywhere, but it is the case in these areas of water and energy. We want to be involved in experiments, and we think it is important to stress that when so much of our energy tax pressure is on households, that is to say on ourselves, on citizens, then it is fair enough that we are beginning to discuss some distribution effects within the energy tax that is so hard on citizens. The last comment is a little to the rapporteur of the Left. I just want to say that it is certainly not true that production companies have a high energy tax in this country. We have the EU's lowest tax rate on production companies • the lowest tax rate. We cannot go down lower than production companies. I think that is a rather important point, because there was a discussion about taxes here, which I think sometimes flew around a little confused.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111511	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111517	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance agrees with Enhedslisten that the supply charges in this country have exploded. This applies not only to electricity and water, but also to heat and waste water. We also agree with Enhedslisten that it turns the heavy end down, as they say, when there is a fire tax on these areas. Only yesterday, the debate on the skyrocketing of water taxes ran, because the water companies have to pay billions of tax due on some misrated depreciation rules. It ran on TV 2 News all day. It has become almost a caricature of the welfare state and the growth of the goodness industry. Imagine that small private and efficient water plants based on voluntaryness are squeezed into a bureaucracy in which state power overwhelms water plants with directives on pricing policy and investment, so some have to hire DJs in order to respond to the demand for the many reports. So there are waterworks that hire djøfs for this. All of this has a sturdy result, namely that taxes are rising. First, you pay the world's highest taxes if you go to work. Then you pay taxes on all things in the world, including the excise duties on water, electricity and heat, which are necessary in everyday life and which are subject to VAT. Afterwards, these water companies increase taxes further because they have to pay billions of tax to the tax minister. It is again because companies have to budget with a profit, otherwise they will not be able to invest in those many things that they have to do by virtue of environmental rules. It will, of course, be a big, self-created, tax and tax carousel which, of course, hits the little man. However, the solution is not new attempts and new bureaucratic subtleties which are clapping on this sick system, but instead to reduce taxes. I am sorry to say this, but if there are any parties in this matter who have advocated additional taxes in the green transition and in the environment, then it is certainly the Enhedslisten. So I have to say that you are lying, as you yourselves have done, and we are not participating in new special arrangements on top of the bureaucratic robbery which already characterises the supply sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111756	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mike Legarth as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111804	The Conservative People's Party cannot support this proposal from the Enhedslisten. We see no idea at all in taxing basic consumption differently from general consumption by means of taxes. We believe that this model is the wrong way to go at all. We think there should be a fair system, but we do not think there should be any difference for the individual: whether you have a small, medium or large income, there must be the same incentive to reduce your consumption as much as possible. And the distribution policy issue that Enhedslisten is talking about in this proposal must of course be resolved by reducing taxes and taxes in general and providing a greater amount of available resources. It would be strange, however, that a very wealthy person who chose to live in a small dwelling should be exempted from paying the same tax as the person who does not have much available. So it's such a reverse Robin Hood, as Enhedslisten used to call it. We do not think there is any justice in this resolution, and that is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111910	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Per Clausen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204111920	It is always exciting to hear a tax minister say that a proposal that has been agreed with a former Social Democratic Government to implement is virtually impossible. That says something about what can happen in negotiations when you negotiate finance law. And there are probably some who think that it is such a little remarkable that Enhedslisten has a certain tendency to return to finance agreements which are a 13-14 years old, but that is not least because, in the negotiations, we actually achieved a large number of good results that were never allowed to unfold in Danish society, because the VK government, which took over power immediately afterwards, hit with a certain amount of precision the fingerprints that Enhedslisten had put on Danish politics in the last half of the 1990s. After all, this confirmed to us that we had been on the right track, and we believe that we are in this case as well. It is true that this is a proposal for an attempt, and that is one of the reasons why it is quite true that there is a part of the area of energy supply which can hardly be affected by such a system as this one. Somewhere it almost reminds us of the time when the whole debate on the security of supply tax died in the debate on gleaning fuels. In other words, you have some elements that say that if they are not included, the system becomes a little unfair, and therefore they must be included, but then it becomes administratively impossible to introduce them. The consequence of this was that we did not get a security of supply tax, and then everyone was happy, except for those who thought that it would basically be very sensible to have a levy on burning wood instead of putting a burden on the energy that might be produced more environmentally soundly. And again, this is probably an expression of the refusal to carry out experiments referring to all the accidents that may happen, knowing that the experiment might show, on the one hand, that all the accidents do not happen, and, on the other hand, that solutions may also be found to the challenges we face. What is at the heart of the Enhedslisten's proposal here is that we think it is unacceptable and unfair that we have a tax system which unilaterally places the most strain on the economically disadvantaged. It is clear that, as a right-wing liberal politician, it might seem unfair to do something about it, because one basically thinks that a system in which citizens pay the same amount of money in taxes, no matter how much they earn, is that which is an expression of justice. But we do not think so in the Enhedslisten. In the Enhedslisten we are actually in favour of social compensation, we are actually in favour of • I do not remember whether it was the Prime Minister who recently came to say that we must stand by, that we are actually working in Denmark to redistribute from the richest to those who have less money. I think it was the Prime Minister who said this, and it was a wise statement which I would like to endorse and which is also why we have tabled this proposal. This is, of course, about making it a bit difficult and I agree with this practice, which, on the one hand, takes social considerations into account and, on the other hand, ensures that there is also strong motivation to save energy consumption, save pollution. And that is why we want to introduce a progressive tax which, indeed, leads to the fact that when one's energy consumption is very high, increasing it will be extra expensive, whereas the cost of it, if it is low, will be relatively small. This is because we do not believe that those people in Denmark who have a poor economy and who have relatively low energy consumption or if they have one that is a little higher, have it primarily because they live in some miserable housing • must be hit in the same way as those people who have a high income and have a very, very high energy consumption. Well, somewhere we think you can tell whether it's the heated swimming pools we're talking about or whether it's the simple energy consumption. It is fair and reasonable for us that one could be burdened more than the other, and we also believe that the possibility of saving energy, which is over in the raw material category, is greater than the possibility of saving basic consumption. So, in addition to being more socially responsible, fairer, it may even be more effective. Of course, the debate here today has revealed such slight differences in approaches. I got it, sir. Villum Christensen considered that companies dealing with waste water and drinking water, unlike other public limited companies, did not have to pay tax • there should be such a special clause that exempted them from paying tax. And I have seen that this remarkable and perhaps a little populist position has been put forward by several right-wing politicians over the last 48 hours. Of course, you can respond to Mr. Villum Christensen's view that then we start with the water companies, and then we can transfer it to all other companies afterwards. This is, of course, a tactic in which I can recognise the wisdom, but it does not change anything about the way in which the water sector was involved in today's debate, perhaps a little beside the reality that it appears. We can, of course, hear from the discussion here today that we are not immediately faced with the implementation of this motion for a resolution and with the launching of such an attempt. So instead of starting with the positive statements that came in relation to what is the root of this, what should be said? In fact, I heard several parties, including the Minister, express the view that it was agreed that it was an important task to try to counteract the social imbalance that exists in our current tax system. And then I would just like to ask the tax minister whether we could perhaps jointly help to raise the level of knowledge in this area by conducting a hearing which analyses what the consequences are basically of the tax system in relation to the way we are compensating for it today by means of the green cheque and, if so, what measures could be taken to counteract what we consider to be an unfair and inappropriate imbalance. I think that would be a very good input to the further discussion, because then we can also, and I suppose, assume that in the coming years, together with the current government parties, or at least one of them, we can make this discussion of finance law forward-looking, in a desire also to bring about greater equality in this area. Then I think we will also be discussing what is necessary to change our tax system, so that this tax system will lead to a much greater degree of sound environmental and energy and climate decisions. We have discussed this in a way, but I would just like to say that, in this context, it will also be crucial for us to include the social aspect, the distribution aspect. And this has become particularly important because it has succeeded in doing so, and Mr. Steen Gade is right in the right in this country, in cooperation with the government, to make the so-called productive industries tax-free when we talk about energy taxes. So, as far as I understand, we have hit the bottom that the European Union has set for how far we can go. Then it is just before we could say that the European Union has, however, set a limit to the misery. But the point is that just when you have decided that the business community must not pay for it, at least not industry and agriculture, and when you have also made changes to the PRS tax, which means that you really do not have to pay for it, then the social distribution becomes even more important. It is clear that we would of course like to return to a situation where business pays taxes in this country, and we would also like to return to a situation where business pays taxes. We would also like to return to a situation where business helps to finance the conversion to renewable energy. But the need to ensure a socially fair and equitable tax structure in relation to households will not, of course, diminish when the burden is unilaterally passed on to ordinary Danes and their consumption. It will then also be important for there to be a social balance in it. That is why it will be part of the work, and we will, at least on the basis of what I see as almost a majority in the Danish Parliament, expressing some sympathy that we have some problems and that we have to do something about it, of course work on it. And we hope that we can do so on a more qualified and more developed basis by launching initiatives that can provide greater clarity on what the social consequences are basically of our tax system and to what extent the green check repairs on it and what could be done by further measures that could help to solve this challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204112850	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Then the tax minister has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204112856	It is just an indication that the desire to raise the level of knowledge could, for example, be met by holding a hearing in either the Tax Committee or the Climate, Energy and Building Committee or in both committees together. There, of course, we from the Treasury will contribute with the knowledge and professional input that we can contribute. That is clear, and I would like to make that clear from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204112923	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate on this motion for a resolution has ended. I propose that it be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Building. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204112939	The debate is open, and first it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113001	The series of resolutions tabled by the Left and others that we are debating today shows that the Left wants random tax cuts with no clear direction. It's not government policy. Instead, the government wants to strengthen welfare and create a stronger community, and that is why we have concluded an ambitious financial law agreement which, within a financially responsible framework, gives a massive boost of 6.5 billion. kr. to health, ensure more security in the labour market and improve conditions for both the elderly at home and for our children in schools and day care institutions. We're gonna set off a billion dollars. kr. to several educators in kindergartens and crèches, and at the same time we give a hand to the organized Danish employees by raising the ceiling on the deduction of union quotas. At the same time, the priorities set out in the Finance Act must be seen in the light of the fact that the government has already improved conditions for business with two major growth packages, such as: involves a reduction in corporate tax and significant reductions in corporate energy taxes and PSO payments. If these reliefs are seriously at the heart of the Left, it is surprising that the Left did not give priority to the tax cuts that we are going to debate today, higher when the Left sat at the negotiating table. The first motion for a resolution in the series we have today is B 26. In this respect, it is proposed that the Government be required to allocate a pool of 50 million in the 2015 Finance Act. kr., which is targeted at tax reliefs etc. for the tourism industry. The proposal states that, for example, the pool may be used to facilitate energy tax and land tax on campsites, to reduce electricity tax on rides or to lower electricity heating tax on summer homes. It's a lot of different things to spend a relatively small pool of money on. The Government has implemented several initiatives to create more growth and employment in Danish tourism. With the agreement on the Danish Tourism Growth Plan, which the government entered into in June 2014 with broad political support, including the Left and the Conservative People's Party, 45.5 million will be allocated. kr. to strengthen the growth of Danish tourism. It was decided to launch a series of initiatives in the following four areas. Firstly, better management of public tourism, secondly, a service and quality boost in Danish tourism; thirdly, the growth of urban and business tourism must be increased and, fourthly, coastal and natural tourism must be developed. When it comes to targeted tax incentives for the tourism industry, with Growth Package 2014, the government has increased the VAT deduction on hotel nights. From 1 January 2015, Danish and foreign companies will have full right to deduct their VAT on hotel nights in Denmark. The introduction of full deduction rights for Danish and foreign companies' VAT costs for hotel nights in Denmark is intended to improve the ability of the profession to attract Danish and foreign business customers. This gives the tourism industry an immediate relief of 220 million. kr. in 2015. The authors propose that the conditions of competition for the tourism industry should include: can be improved by reducing the electric heating charge for summer homes. In addition, I would like to mention that, in the context of the 2013 Finance Act, the government has halved the electric heating tax. It also benefits the tourist industry A tax equalization of holiday homes with full-year residences will concern all leisure homes and not only leisure homes used for rental purposes. Many leisure homes are used both privately and for rental, and it will not be administratively possible to target a relaxation for leisure homes alone for rental purposes. Therefore, the majority of a reduction in the electric heating charge for recreational houses can go for private use and not for rental. The authors also propose that the conditions of competition for tourism should include: may be improved by reducing the electricity tax on rides. In addition, certain liberal services, including rides, pay the general electricity tax equal to the electricity tax paid by households. The Electricity Tax Act is State aid-approved in its entirety and therefore a reduction in the electricity tax for amusements will require the approval of the European Commission. It would be difficult to reduce the electricity tax only for rides and not for the other liberal professions, which also pay general electricity tax under the Electricity Tax Act. If the electricity tax is reduced for rides, it will therefore be necessary to reduce the tax correspondingly for the other liberal professions. Therefore, it is not possible to introduce a targeted relaxation of the electricity tax on rides. Finally, it should be noted that with the 2014 growth package, the government has significantly reduced energy taxes. The PSO is reduced for industry and the space heating tax is reduced by approx. 25% for fossil fuels and approx. 15% on electricity. This is particularly beneficial to the space heating-intensive industries such as the hotel and catering industry. In these words, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113546	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113549	The Minister for Taxation said that this is a series of proposals where there are such a lack of direction to reduce taxes and duties. There is, of course, the clear direction to which we are referring from the left, where we believe that action is needed. When the tourist industry plays such a major role as it does in Denmark, we believe it is necessary that we support that development in order to secure jobs and, of course, jobs which are very much outside the most densely populated areas in Denmark. I have to say that I am sorry that the Minister of Taxation has the approach that everything has been done and that there is no need to do any further. That is why I should just like to know whether I understand the Minister of Taxation correctly, namely that the conditions of competition in the tourist industry are under control, that there is no need to do anything further, that everything has been done, that everything is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113647	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113648	As with everything else in life, it is of course the case that different efforts must be given priority in the context of financial law negotiations, growth package negotiations, etc. In any case, it has to be said that a great deal has been done. I therefore hope that the rapporteur of the Left will acknowledge this, because the Left has also helped to facilitate the tourism industry and to change the framework conditions in the Ministry of Business and Growth. I therefore hope that we will be proud to stress the importance of the tourism industry in Denmark as well. However sympathetic it may sound that money will be spread over a particular area, I must say that there are a number of specific challenges, as much of what the Left is proposing here will be very difficult to implement. That is why I can be a little unsure whether we can really help to create expectations that can be very difficult to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113755	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113757	I agree with the Minister that initiatives have been taken. I believe that in all the initiatives that have been taken and which have benefited the tourism industry, the Left has been an active partner in the negotiations and has also helped to ensure that the level of ambition has been higher than that proposed by the government. But I think it is a little too bad, because when we look at some of the conditions that the Danish tourist industry has, and when we look at our neighbouring countries, there are some challenges. I think the Minister's answer is rather thin-legged. But I have to understand that the Minister believes that there is no need for further action, because it will only create unnecessary expectations that we will do something for the Danish tourist industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113842	What I am saying about creating unnecessary expectations is that in the motion for a resolution which the Left has helped to formulate, we are setting out some things which either cannot be done in the isolated form described or, alternatively, would have to be implemented in such a way that it would cost much, much more money than the ones that the Left allocates from the pool funds. I would then say that if you propose something that will either be far more expensive than you find funding for or that, alternatively, will not be implemented in the way you propose, it is then that you set up expectations that cannot be met.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113921	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Julie Skovsby as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204113938	Thank you. First of all, for the sake of good order, I would like to point out that I am not a member of the Committee on Taxation, but, by virtue of my post as rapporteur for tourism, I have of course read with great interest the motion for a resolution by the Left and the Conservatives on a pool of 50 million. kr. to tax and tax relief for the tourism industry. When this resolution was last tabled in 2012, it was with a desire to create employment and growth in Danish tourism. We in the Socialists very much agree that Danish tourism must be guaranteed good conditions. It is an industry with a lot of growth and jobs in it, and we must of course take advantage of that. But we have just done so. Since 2012, together with both the Left and the Conservatives, we have adopted a long-term plan for Danish tourism. It is a plan which precisely ensures better conditions for growth and which will help attract more tourists to Denmark. On the basis of the Tourism Growth Team's recommendations, we have agreed on how to bring the tourism industry out of the state that in the 00s fell over Danish tourism. And I would also like to add that on Tuesday here in the Danish Parliament we adopted Denmark's first tourism law. I therefore wonder a little about the timing of the proposal. In recent years, we have made a massive effort to improve the general framework of business, including tourism. With a wake-up plan we have increased the VAT deduction on corporate hotel nights and reduced corporate tax. It is all to strengthen the conditions of Danish tourism. We have just given priority to structuring and strengthening the conditions of those who wish to engage in tourism in this country. I believe that, with our efforts so far, we have created excellent conditions for growth in Danish tourism. Now it must also be allowed to work. That is why I do not believe that there is any reason at this stage to take further action with tax and tax cuts. That is why the Socialists cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114213	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114217	According to Mrs Skovsby, the government has created excellent conditions for tourist companies in Denmark. Is it an excellent condition that international tourists who are considering which country in northern Europe they are going to take their holidays in should pay 25%? VAT on their hotel accommodation in Denmark, while they only have to pay 12%. VAT on their hotel accommodation in Malmö and while they have to pay 7%. VAT on their hotel accommodation in Hamburg?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114253	What I think is really important in relation to the efforts we have made in the field of tourism since the government arrived is that we are not just focusing on tax and tax cuts, because it cannot stand alone. We are looking at the whole organisation of the tourism industry, and it is the case that it is 500 million. kr., which is used annually in various initiatives from the public sector and from the industry itself, and coordinating these efforts is what can also help to boost the industry to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114338	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114340	Excuse me, but I am not impressed by the government's attempts to organise tourism in Denmark. I don't think that's what's moving. Doesn't Mrs Julie Skovsby think it's a problem that by leaving your holiday in Sønderborg you have to pay 25%. VAT on your hotel stay, while by leaving your holiday in Hamburg or Flensburg you can only pay 7%. VAT on the hotel night?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114413	As I have said, we have, of course, withdrawn the VAT allowance for the hotel nights of the companies, and I think it is really a pity that the Liberal Alliance would not be part of Denmark's first Tourism Act, which was adopted by the Danish Parliament on Tuesday. As the only party, the Liberal Alliance does not want to make the big investment in tourism as it is. And getting tourism organized much better than it is today is extremely important, and that is one of the things that is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114456	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114505	This motion for a resolution is about the fact that the Danish Parliament has to instruct the government that a 50 million-million-dollar pool will be set aside in the 2015 Finance Act. kr. to be targeted at tax reductions in the tourism industry. I think it is very positive that we should have a regular debate on the situation of the tourism industry in Denmark, because it is an extremely important profession, especially in the outermost regions, probably better described as water-skirtsdanmark, where there is a large proportion of the population employed in the tourism industry. One of the things you can see is that such things as amusement parks are big consumers of electricity and thus also very much pressured by the high energy taxes. There are Danish campsites that people opt out of, because energy taxes associated with having their caravan are higher in Denmark than they are abroad. So there is a good reason for discussing these matters which are dealt with in the motion for a resolution. So thank you for that. One of the things I wonder about in this motion for a resolution is why it is a pool that you want to put off. I do not assume that it is because it is intended that each of us should apply for some relief. Maybe it's more like a pool for later coinage. I think it would be nice if we were much more specific in this motion for a resolution on where we thought it should be relaxed. Was it something VAT that had to be relaxed or was it energy taxes, or should you have cheaper power? Because when you're down to an amount of 50 million. kr., I think you have to target it very precisely in order for it to have a good and beneficial effect. But it is very sympathetic, I would say, that this motion for a resolution addresses the framework conditions of the tourism industry. What is referred to in the proposal as regards funding is merely that it should be taken into account in the Finance Act for 2015. Now the government has a majority with Enhedslisten and SF on one financial law issue, Conservatives have another financial law issue and the Left has a third proposal for the Finance Act. So there's not exactly a clear line on how to finance this now. However, I think it sounds like a positive step, and would then call on the parties to come together during the committee procedure, if necessary, to draw up a report or something that might be used as funding. To refer to getting it through in the Finance Act is probably not so realistic, since there is now a financial settlement among some parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114736	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114744	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we believe that it is always important to continuously improve the general framework conditions and, at the same time, to improve our positions of strength. It may be in different industries where there is potential. It's about seeing the different industries as drivers of growth. We have Blue Denmark, we also have other areas, and here the tourism industry can be an excellent place to invest. I think the government has done that in cooperation with several of the bourgeois parties. Having said that, it is also a matter of using our money and using money to pay tax with care and getting the most value out of it. I am very much in favour of this, and I think we have done so by lowering taxes on business and personal taxes, and we have also been talking about hotel VAT, and we have seen other areas. So, overall, I think we are actually well on the way, and I do not think there is any basis for establishing a separate pool for the tourism industry. That is why the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114907	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204114924	As my fellow Members have also mentioned, we have, of course, just had quite a focus on tourism. If we had not had it, of course I would have thought it was very good of the Left to make this proposal. But 45 million have been set aside. kr. to strengthen the growth of tourism, among other things: to better manage public tourism efforts and a service and quality boost in the Danish tourism effort, and to develop coastal and natural tourism has also been a point, and then there is VAT on hotel nights. It is just to mention a few things that we have done and that the Left has also been involved in. So all in all, we actually think that we have a very good focus on this important area, and therefore the SF cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115018	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115027	I just want to say that we do not support the proposal either. We like tourism, but we think that there is enough in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115042	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115050	We believe that the tourist industry in Denmark has very, very hard conditions to survive. This is due to the separate problem that the tourist industry is an export business which is subject to VAT in Denmark. There are no other export industries that have to sell their products with Danish VAT. When B&O has produced a television, it is not the case that 25 per cent is added. VAT on when sold in Germany or in Italy or in the United States. Local VAT is added. But when the tourist industry in Denmark has to sell an overnight stay in a hotel or dinner at a restaurant in Denmark to a German or an Italian or an American, there will be 25 per cent. VAT on. In this way we are dealing with an industry which is located on the international markets but which has to sell with Danish VAT, and this is a separate problem. When an international tourist is going to Northern Europe on holiday, he must take account of the fact that in Denmark there is 25%. VAT on the hotel night. The hotel night is considerably cheaper in Sweden, where there is only 12%. VAT on, and it is even cheaper in Germany, where there is only 7%. VAT on. And it is therefore hard conditions to be a profession in Denmark. That is why our proposal is that we need to have a VAT on hotel nights that is competitive with regard to foreign VAT rates on hotel nights. We say it must be 7%. in Denmark so that we can compete with the Germans. This motion for a resolution will set aside 50 million. kr. to a pool for all sorts of good from the sea • or actually not very good, because 50 million doesn't go very far. We can certainly support that, but we would also point out that we think that the proposal is more an expression of the proposal that the proposers would like to claim that they want something for the tourist industry and not that the proposers actually do something that matters to the tourist industry, because we are not getting very far with 50 million. kr. Equal treatment of VAT on hotel accommodation in Denmark with Germany costs a 3-4 billion. kr., and we are willing to allocate funding to that. That is why, of course, we are also willing to allocate funding to a pool of 50 million. kr., but we have to point out that it has more the character of symbolism than that it really does address the challenges facing the tourist industry in Denmark. But we support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115340	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115347	The tourism industry is one of the most important industries in Denmark. It is a major export business. It is the fifth largest export business. It is jobs that stay in Denmark and, so to speak, cannot be moved out of the country, as any other workplace can, when talking about Danish jobs. So it's all about securing attractive conditions to get more tourists to Denmark. We expect the whole industry to employ some 122 000 people in this way in a total annual effect, so we are also talking about a huge number of jobs. They are translating for 87 billion. kr. in the tourism industry. 41% of that, that's 35.7 billion. kr., is being converted by foreign tourists. So we are talking about a large export business, many jobs • 122,000 of them • while there is a great potential for growth. That is why it is good for the small steps that have been taken politically, both by this government and by the previous government, with the VAT deduction and all the other things, but what really matters is the level of costs. This is the cost level for wages and VAT and taxes in Denmark. That is why the proposal here is a signal that we, the authors of the motion, want to facilitate conditions for the tourism industry. We also have an ambition from the Conservative People's Party to go further. That is why we have also proposed to the government during the fiscal negotiations two years in a row that all taxes on the energy side should be abolished for the tourism industry. We have also looked at the root cause of the camping sites mentioned here in the proposal. We have taken this to the negotiating table of the Minister of Finance for two years in a row and the government has not wanted to move an inch. When we look at the parameters that matter, when it comes to attracting tourists to Denmark, we think that we live in a fantastic country, and fortunately many tourists think so too. It's about attractive sights, it's about a safe environment. It is a nice country to be a tourist in, but it is also a very expensive country to be a tourist in. That is why the most important thing we can do from a political point of view is to help the tourism industry and get even more than the 122 000 years' work in the tourism industry, in other words to lighten some of the taxes and taxes in this area, in the first place some of the energy taxes that are and the root cause, but we would also like to go further than that. Because we want to invest in jobs and growth in the tourism industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115627	Thank you to the rapporteur. Should we try to reach the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, before the break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204115638	I have the pleasure of being the author of the motion for a resolution. We in the Left are also so fortunate that we have a tourism rapporteur, but unfortunately he was preoccupied with other things, so I want to play both the tourism rapporteur and the tax rapporteur in a common combination, and that is very good in view of this proposal. For there is no doubt that Danish tourism is an important growth engine for Denmark, which can attract new jobs and ensure increased turnover around the country, and so there is a need for the Folketing to support the conditions that the industry has and to give it a helping hand. For it is a profession in which we are very much in competition with our neighbouring countries. If we look at Danish tourism, we can see that it is a business that translates over 87 billion. kr., which stands for 3.6%. of exports in Denmark, and this creates 122,000 jobs, is the assessment. As some have said in today's debate, some initiatives have been taken for a number of years, but that does not mean that we should then just rest on the laurels. There are challenges in relation to the energy taxes that tourism meets. It does so in relation to a tourist industry which does not have the same opportunities to deduct energy taxes as other exporting industries, that it imposes additional burdens... Therefore, as the proposal also says, there is a need to look at the taxes that the industry encounters. We also mention the problem of the root cause of the Danish campsites. It does not seem appropriate for there to be unequal conditions in relation to similar professions. By doing something about it, we will help to reduce the cost level for Danish campsites, and this will help to strengthen their competitiveness in relation to abroad. We also mention the proposal for amusement parks, which is a proposal that the industry itself has asked for. And it may well be that the tax minister says it is a little tricky and a little hassle, but if we do not take the initiative, if we do not do something, then nothing will happen at all. Of course, I must thank those parties who have been positive about the proposal, i.e. the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and, of course, also the Conservative People's Party, which are co-sponsors. Yes, it would be nice to have an even bigger bag of money, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also talked about, but things have to go up in the end. I was actually also pleased with the announcement from the SF, which says that a lot has happened, so perhaps not much is needed. Now we in the Left have made a similar proposal in the past before some of the recent initiatives were taken, and then we were not prepared to support it either, but leave it at that. It is, of course, a pity that there is no support for us being able to take further initiatives together to promote the conditions of competition for the tourist industry, because that is certainly what we need. It is an industry that secures many jobs, many jobs located in the outermost regions of Denmark, so it will be some of the things that can help to ensure a better balance for Denmark if we give a hand in helping the tourist industry. If we just have to take what has happened in the last few days when we look at the government's approach to the tourist industry, then I will be somewhat sad. For now we can understand what the Danish Government and the Danish Nature Agency think the good answer is when it comes to making Denmark more attractive as a tourist nation. The answer is that you take 19 of the greatest natural attractions we have in Denmark • some sights where we do everything we can to brand ourselves, as it is said in modern Danish, some of the things where we have unique things to offer, which you can only see in Denmark and introduce parking fees to use those places. I have to say that I am surprised, otherwise there seems to be a great understanding that the level of costs we impose on the tourist industry has an impact on how many tourists we attract. One thing is that the government will not take any further initiatives for 50 million. kr., but now you also come directly with an extra bill of 5 million. kr., where the tourists we get attracted to Denmark, who hopefully otherwise have a positive impression of some of the major attractions we have, are met by a parking meter, where they can please check if they have some Danish coins in their pockets and can pay to use the tourist attractions that we have otherwise made great efforts to use to attract tourists. I know it is not the tax minister's resort, but the tax minister can at least put himself behind his ear, that he should have a talk with the Minister for the Environment about it, because it is an unparalleled goal. However, as I said, I would like to thank you for the debate. I am glad that there are a number of parties that are positive, but I regret that there is still a majority that says that we have already done a lot, so there is no need for more immediately. I think that we could have given the tourist industry a helping hand and helped to secure more jobs around the country, especially in those parts of the country where, unfortunately, the challenges of employment today are far too great.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204120239	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204125959	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. I shall give the floor to the Minister of Taxation first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130030	As I have mentioned in one of the previous motions for resolutions, it shows a number of resolutions tabled by, among others. Left, which we have to deal with today, that the Left wants unfocused tax cuts, while the government instead wants to strengthen welfare and create a stronger community. With B 27, which we are now considering, proposals are made to continue the housing job scheme from 2015 onwards. The authors state, among other things, that the housing job scheme is a success and that it is used every year by more than half a million Danes. Let me therefore begin by pointing out that the government has never contested the popularity of the scheme. It is also evident that the removal of a Qualifying Scheme will never be popular. However, it is the government's duty to give careful priority to the economic resources of society and to ensure that they are used at all times in the most appropriate way. The housing job scheme was introduced as a temporary experimental scheme as it was needed. There is no such thing anymore, and that is why the government has chosen to give priority to the financial resources for other more important initiatives. Among other things, the government has. done with the 2015 Finance Act agreement that we have concluded with SF and Enhedslisten. With the Finance Act agreement, the government has given priority to a massive boost of 6.5 billion. kr. for health over the next 4 years and 1 billion. kr. to several educators in kindergartens and crèches. These improvements include: the scope created by the non-continuance of the housing job scheme. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that the government has already improved conditions for business with two major growth packages, such as: There are significant reductions in the energy taxes and the PSO payments of companies. As mentioned, the housing job scheme was introduced as a temporary experimental scheme. Now, however, the system has served its military service. There is no longer the same need for the scheme as when it was introduced as an experimental scheme in 2011 and 2012 and continued in 2013 and 2014. More favourable winds are blowing in construction now, and many of the activities that taxpayers have been able to carry out with tax subsidies have now been carried out. Many figures have been presented in the debate on the impact of the housing job scheme on employment. The proposers stress that according to the Danish Construction Agency, the scheme has created 5,000 jobs. However, the proposers fail to mention that several economists have publicly stated that they do not consider this assessment of the impact of the scheme to be realistic. Nor do the proposers mention in the proposal that the Ministry of Finance has estimated that the scheme will increase employment by about 1.000 to 1.500 people. The industry's assessment thus covers the impact of construction, but does not take into account the fact that jobs have been moved to construction from other sectors in large part. It should also be borne in mind that much of the work covered by the scheme would have been done anyway. In this sense, it is a subsidy for work which would nevertheless have been carried out. At the same time, the housing job scheme provides an incentive to convert additional consumption for domestic consumption because it is Qualifying. The scheme therefore contributes to a shift in consumption, as the money could otherwise have been used in, for example, the retail trade. This change is in isolation socio-economicly inappropriate. Part of the employment effect can also be attributed to the fact that people have advanced maintenance and renovation projects, which should have been completed at a later stage, but which have been brought forward to 2014 from 2015 when the scheme has ended. I therefore also have to say that if we are to finance the continuation of the scheme, then other taxes must be increased or savings must be made. Such an approach is likely to have a negative impact on employment. In addition to the effect of employment, there has also been talk of the effect of the scheme on undeclared work. In this context, however, I must refer to the Rockwool Foundation, which, in their analysis of May, concludes that black work shows a declining trend, but that there is no indication that the decline can be attributed to the housing job scheme. Overall, therefore, the government has chosen to prioritise improvements in welfare rather than an extension of the scheme in 2015. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130546	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130550	I think it is a good thing that the tax minister can stand here today and say that the housing job scheme has earned its military service: it is no longer needed, the jobs the government can do without, other initiatives have been taken, so now everything is good. I am just sorry that when you see the Finance Act signed by the government with SF and Enhedslisten, you can see that the 31 pages have been clinically cleared of growth initiatives. There is not one initiative aimed at strengthening growth in Denmark. We are concerned about securing private jobs in Denmark, and the housing job scheme is an effective instrument, and I think it is strange to hear a tax minister say that one can do without that. So, what kind of answer is it to give to both the craftsmen who are at risk of losing their jobs as a result of the fact that the housing job scheme will not be continued if it is up to the government, but also to the families who benefit greatly from using the scheme to get a little extra help in everyday life. Enough has been done. Is that what the answer is from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130703	I have to challenge the view that this should be a particularly effective tool, tool, to promote employment. I also think that I have explained very clearly that, with regard to the various death-weight losses and various other factors implicit in the scheme, there will be subsidies for something that would still have been implemented. That is why there is a relatively small effect, and I believe that it is important for the debate and for the fairness of the debate that it is stated. Of course, you can always point out that there can be beneficial elements. I am quite sure, as I mentioned in my speech, that there are a lot of people who have thought that this has been a really nice tax relief to get, a really nice help to get. That is not something I am in any way going to challenge, on the contrary. Any kind of scheme that gives people more money in hand is something that can be unpopular in this way of abolishing. But what we are talking about is what the overall effect is. The overall effect of relatively small, and therefore money can be spent more effectively on other things, including putting public investment in motion. A great deal of public investment has been set in motion, as is also the case with employment in construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130816	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130817	One can understand if it is a little unpleasant for the tax minister, because when the scheme was introduced under the VK government, the Social Democratic Party supported it. When it was extended as part of a growth package on the initiative of the Left, the Social Democratic Party supported the scheme. And both times the Social Democratic Party has spoken nicely about it and said that there was certainly a need for it, that there were positive elements, but I can then understand that the Danish economy has come in such good condition now that the government believes that it is now simply no longer needed. If anyone thinks the government is on a zigzag course in this, I understand them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130855	I must admit that I do not remember that at any time, even when you were in government, the Left has said anything else, except that this was a temporary arrangement... a temporary arrangement... which was intended precisely to support some economic conditions and to contribute in this way to providing the improvement elements, as there are, of course, too. But it must also be said that in a situation where there is a very low level of unemployment in the construction sector, compared to what existed when the scheme was introduced, we are also in a situation where the world around us looks quite different, and any government will have to act responsibly accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130934	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204130937	All organizations without exception, including the trade unions in the sectors concerned, say that the abolition of the housing job scheme will result in the loss of a great many jobs. They themselves estimate that it is 5,000 jobs in the industry, and now the Minister himself mentions that it is between 1,000 and 1,500 people that the government has calculated. But no matter what, it's in that field of tension. What will the government do to reassure the craftsmen out there and say: we have something else for you; we will make sure that there is a market to move some black work to white, so that there is employment for the craftsmen, for the workers, so that some students are taken in and you do not lose those jobs? Because that will be the reality when the government now abolishes this scheme... several thousand will become unemployed, and many craftsmen will lose their livelihood and perhaps be forced to close down.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131028	So I have to challenge the argument that this should significantly help to shift the problem of undeclared work. I wish it were the case that we could conclude that the scheme here actually had an effect that went in that direction. For then we would also have a concrete tool, and also an argument, in relation to the scheme on that point. I must honestly admit that I am a little disappointed that the analyses of the Rockwool Foundation have shown that there is in fact no significant effect in relation to undeclared work. And that is why I would like to challenge the part of it that there should be a concrete impact on undeclared work in relation to moving it. It shows the Rockwool Foundation so that there isn't. But we must also say that the government has, of course, launched many initiatives. There is a very high level of public investment, as can be seen from the level of employment in construction. And then I have to say that I do not know any industries that would not like to have any direct or indirect state aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131138	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131139	This is support for consumers, for Mr. and Mrs. Denmark 500,000 of them. It is, after all, a game that has taken advantage of the scheme, and it has been a huge gain for a great many Danish families throughout Denmark and in all layers of Danish society. In Sweden, where they have seen elections being held yesterday, they have, for the time being at least, a provisional social democratic government which has submitted a financial bill and, in relation to the financial bill in Sweden, it has been found that the housing employment scheme in Sweden, which is much more attractive than in Denmark, has chosen to maintain. And they do if you read what the Swedish Social Democrats are writing because it generates a lot of jobs and because it moves black work to white. There is a better regime in Sweden. I would like to ask the Minister if he does not also draw a little attention to Sweden, where they have gained some experience, where they have the empire in order, and where the Swedish Social Democrats also demonstrate that it provides jobs and that it shifts massively very black work to white.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131245	However, I clearly recognise that Sweden at least has some other effects of this. This may also be due to the fact that one has another way of adjusting one's housing tax system. That there may be a connection there, I shall not be able to reject. However, there is no natural law which says that because they have a different form of property taxation and another way of granting such deductions in another country, you have to take part out of it. And I have certainly not heard anyone arguing that we should have a housing tax system in Denmark similar to that in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131319	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131323	The housing job scheme has many positive effects. Among other things: I think that this is an important point, and that is that it is typically Danish employment that it sets in motion. We see regularly, when these major capital investments come from state, regions and municipalities, that it is typically some foreign employees who are going to work on them. I would just like to know whether the Minister does not agree that when it is typically small projects, as is the case with the housing job scheme, it will be mainly the small local carpenter who will benefit from the scheme, who may be able to hire an apprentice. Or it may have other positive effects • contrary to the large public investment that the government advocates where it is typically foreign labour that is being employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131407	I would like to start by repeating that when Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says that there is an effect in relation to undeclared work, so it is not something that the Rockwool Foundation has been able to demonstrate that there is a significant effect in relation to "just to make it clear once again." The question of who will be employed in companies can be relatively difficult to answer with great certainty. I certainly do not have any evidence to be able to comment on whether it is only Danish employees who are employed in companies or whether there are also foreign workers who are employed. After all, it is the social partners themselves who have it under control. What I do know, however, is that, for the part dealing with leisure homes, there are some of the tasks for which it has been possible to obtain subsidies, which are certainly being carried out abroad, because there is also the possibility of deduction of any improvements that may be made in a foreign leisure home according to the rules that are now in place. So I do not think it is clear that Danish labour alone is being taken into account by the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131517	Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131519	No, nor can I guarantee that Danish labour alone will benefit from the housing job scheme, but after all it is small local projects that do not come in huge tenders, where foreign companies can win the project, or large Danish companies that win or hire foreign labour via subcontractors. If you have to paint the carport or just change a window, you typically go to the local carpenter's master and do not make the offer where foreigners win the offer. And they probably don't have much interest in offering it either, because it's so small projects. That is why my logic is that the housing job scheme is super good, because it is a support for Danish employment, while the major projects, such as: a Femern Belt project means that there will be a lot of people who are not Danes working on it. So in order to keep a good grip on employment, where it is Danes who get employment, I think that the housing job scheme must be a good move.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131607	Of course, I hear the rapporteur's arguments. I am just not able to de- or confirm it on the basis of concrete evidence, and that is also why I take the reservation to say that I can at least see that there may be some elements, some possible scenarios where it is not necessarily Danish labour that the scheme takes into account. I have to take that kind of reservation, but the rapporteur is also welcome to put written questions on it in concrete terms, and, to the extent that the Ministry is able to assist in answering it, of course, we should be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131645	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. Then we go to the rapporteur's line and I give the floor first to Mrs Julie Skovsby, who speaks for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204131657	As the Socialist tax rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, cannot be here today, I shall read the speech on behalf of the rapporteur. The housing job scheme was introduced in 2011. It was introduced as a temporary solution. It was introduced to provide economic support to the construction industry at a time when there was economic uncertainty and low activity. But the scheme has never been intended as a permanent change. The Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party have proposed to continue the scheme, which expires at the turn of the year. In general, they justify this with three elements. Firstly, they justify the proposal that the housing job scheme is a helping hand for families and that more than half a million Danes use the scheme. To this I would say that it is true that the scheme is a helping hand, and it is always nice to have it. However, the housing job scheme has been a tool to be used in the years when the crisis was worst. After all, it should not be the case that you have to have state aid for eternity to get craftsmanship done in your private home. Therefore, it is also worth noting that the vast majority of those who use the scheme are people who actually have very good wages. We Social Democrats do not think that such people as us who are sitting here today should have the support of taxpayers to get new kitchens or extended garages. It's not fair at all. Secondly, the proposal is justified by the fact that it helps to combat undeclared work. There can be no doubt that we in the Socialist Group believe that all people should pay their taxes, no more or less. That is why we are making a great effort to combat tax havens, and that is why we also want to combat undeclared work. For the same reason, we are also pleased that according to the Rockwool Foundation's analysis, there has been a decrease in the extent of undeclared work in Denmark, but the analysis shows no evidence that it is the housing job scheme that has had an effect on the decreasing extent of black work. Thirdly, the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party argue that according to Danish Construction, the scheme has created 5,000 jobs. To this I have to say that the scheme has been used even less than was expected, and therefore the effect on employment has also been less than expected. Unemployment in the construction industry is currently falling. According to Statistics Denmark, both higher employment and upward orders are expected. It's gratifying. And that is why we do not think that we should give priority to supporting this industry any longer. The Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party estimate that a continuation of the housing job scheme will cost in the region of 1.1 billion. kr. This will mean that there will be savings or increases in other taxes, and with a bourgeois government and Lars Løkke Rasmussen's zero growth we find it rather difficult to see how it should be realistic. Instead, in the 2015 Finance Act, we have chosen to prioritise our welfare. These are priorities that would in no way be possible with zero growth and cuts. This government, together with the SF and Enhedslisten, has made a clear priority that ensures better care for our sick and elderly, better care for our children and generally better public service regardless of wallet. We believe that time has run out of the housing job scheme. We do not believe that it is time to give a helping hand to families in the form of a craftsman's allowance at all when it is primarily the well-off Danes who make use of the scheme. The Socialists do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132118	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132128	This is a motion for a resolution from the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. Of course, by being a co-sponsor, we can support the proposal. The proposal is about the continuation of the housing job scheme, which expires at the end of 2014. The scheme means that families can deduct the cost of home help from taxes, which means that for example: a married couple can deduct salary costs from up to DKK 30,000. a year. It has been a super popular scheme, I have the impression. This is something the Danes have taken on board, and they have been very happy that you have been able to get help with the nanny or garden work or renovations that you should now do at your house. It is a system that has helped to keep its hands on employment during a time of crisis, and it is also a system that has helped to make it more likely that it has been Danes who have been given this employment because it has often been small local projects as opposed to large public investment, which is often reflected in the fact that it is employment for foreign companies or Danish companies that use subcontractors who are foreigners. There are many other positive effects. Among other things: The extent of undeclared work is reduced. It certainly reduces the incentive to use it because it is less profitable. When you go out and talk to, for example. the local painters, they will be able to confirm that they were often before met with a request that people could not get any of the black when they were going out to do small painting tasks, while today, at least the ones I meet, they say they rarely meet it. Now people will instead be sure that it will be confirmed and on the invoice it will be shown what the wage costs represent from the invoice amount, so that you can now use this housing job scheme. So it's moved something, which you get confirmed when you ask the local carpenter and painter and others out there. One thing that I think is really a pity if you abolish the housing job scheme, as you do automatically in New Year, is the apprenticeship. It has provided a lot of training places • About 400 I have read in some places. What do these people now have to do to find apprenticeships? There has therefore been a good side effect in the housing job scheme, namely that more apprentices have been employed. Then I myself have a small personal issue which I think should be included in the housing job scheme if it is continued. It is that you get digging through the installation of fast broadband so that we can create demand for faster broadband and promote our infrastructure in that area. This could be urgently needed, especially in the outermost regions. So if you could get the arrangement in the housing job scheme that people in the outermost regions could get a deduction for excavation by installing fast broadband, it could also be super good. Then there is a side effect in abolishing the housing job scheme. Before we got the housing job scheme, we had something called a home service scheme. It then went out, instead of being able to be deducted from the housing job scheme. Now the housing job scheme also falls away, which means that you then have no opportunity to get this deduction or subsidy if you, for example, get it. is an elderly person who would like a little extra cleaning. We find that incredibly awkward, so you have to deal with in the Folketing what you do instead. At least now there is no solution, and that is something we in the Danish People's Party find regrettable. In conclusion, the Danish People's Party can of course support the proposal, as we ourselves are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132454	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132503	Thank you. As rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, mentioned, it is true that the housing job scheme has been popular among many and has been used by many citizens. I used the scheme myself. We don't question that. I also think it has become a bit of a myth that we in the government should be against the housing job scheme. That's not true either. It's always a matter of priorities. When we are against continuing the housing job scheme, it is on the basis of initial conditions. What was about it was that the scheme was introduced as an experimental scheme, as a temporary scheme, and it was not our intention that it should be made permanent. We do not feel that there is the same need for the scheme now as when it was introduced. We now believe that there are other things that we would rather give priority to in the socio-economic policy areas. We are pursuing an economically responsible policy and we have implemented a large number of good initiatives for business and for taxpayers, and in the ongoing priority we have chosen not to continue the housing job scheme. There has been talk about calculations and various elements of it. I don't want to go into that here. Of course, you can ask questions about that. As I said, we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132653	A brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132656	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the radical rapporteur says that there are nice things to say about the housing job scheme. I'm glad to hear that. However, the radical rapporteur also says that the government has chosen to prioritise differently in its financial law agreement. That's right. That is absolutely correct. So I just want to hear: what initiatives are there in the government's Finance Act agreement with SF and Enhedslisten, which has the same positive effect on employment as a continuation of the housing job scheme would have?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132729-2	But that is a good question, because the fact is that it is the overall economic policy of the government that helps to support growth and employment. It is not the case that, in isolation, the Finance Act goes in, so to speak, to compensate for the housing job scheme. We have, for example, in the Financial Law Agreement. priority health, care and other welfare areas, but before the Financial Act we have together helped to land a growth package of growth initiatives. So it is the overall economic policy that, so to speak, promotes growth and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132815	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132817	I am grateful for the very clear answer, namely that when the Radical Left refers to growth initiatives which are covered by the comprehensive Finance Act for 2015, Mr. Nadeem Farooq to the agreements concluded by the government with inter alia: Left in June and July, for there were growth-creating initiatives in them. I am pleased that it has been established that the growth-creating initiatives covered by the full Finance Act for 2015 have been agreed with the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, while then there is nothing in the Finance Act with the SF and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132856	Now we are a social liberal party which, of course, prioritises both social considerations and economic growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132908	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132912	According to the Rockwool Foundation, there is black work going on for between 40 and 50 billion. kr. in Denmark. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether there is any instrument at all, any tool that is as effective in removing undeclared work as the housing job plan, where we know that it is made more attractive to hire white workers who pay tax and VAT in relation to going out and getting things done black. Is there any other tool that is just about as effective as the housing job plan to reduce black work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204132947	Yes, you can measure quantitatively and qualitatively and in a similar way, but you can say that the government, for example. We have made some bets against black work • We did so when we stepped in and also gave tax more instruments. These are also effective instruments. Even if one action is considered more effective than the other, it must be based on concrete impact measurements. We do not have them, and I do not think the questioner is aware of different impact measurements either. But if there is anything rhetorical about the question of whether the housing job scheme is the most effective, I would like to question it. I do not believe that the Rockwool Foundation has found that this arrangement should be a particularly effective bulwark against undeclared work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133048	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133052	It is of course interesting that when I ask how to deal with undeclared work, Nadeem Farooq, who is otherwise a very good radical rapporteur, the whip instruments, mentions the control instruments. But we know that there is massively very black work going on in Denmark, also according to the Rockwool Foundation. The latest inventory showed that it was for 46 billion. kr. This may not be removed by making effective controls, and the SKAT does more work. There, I think, most sensible people at least agree that the way to get rid of undeclared work is to make it more attractive to pay tax and VAT by lowering the level of tax and VAT. That is why my question will again be: what is the alternative to making craftsman's services cheaper? If they do not become cheaper, people will keep doing black work, no matter how many measures there are. Well, they've been there since Arild's time, so I guess it's gonna stay there. But we can see that it is documented that more and more people are using the housing job plan. So is Sweden. Now there was an answer here from the Minister, where he spoke about a different job plan in Sweden. The only thing is that it is a more attractive scheme in Sweden, because there you get a grant there you get a grant. And there it generates a lot of jobs and turns black work into white. So I'm gonna ask mr. Nadeem Farooq: What is the alternative to reducing the cost of hiring white labour in the form of subsidies for craft services?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133219	I'd like to acknowledge, sir. Brian Mikkelsen's very explicit fight against undeclared work. It's nice to hear that some people are preoccupied with it, and I mean that without sarcasm. But I do not think that there is any Columbus egg in the fight against undeclared work. Another thing that we have done together is to introduce a higher top tax limit, and one could say that it also helps to combat undeclared work. There are so many things like that. I don't think we'll solve everything in one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133256	Thank you. I came to appoint the rapporteur as Minister at some point. Unfortunately, I have no power to do that. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133310	When the housing job scheme was launched, we were faced with very high unemployment, especially in some of the occupations which could benefit from the housing job scheme. That is why we can also say that it was a way of kick-starting the economy. The scheme has always been intended, as has also been mentioned from up here, as a temporary scheme to kick-start the economy and create jobs in some of these industries. But we can see afterwards that it is the wealthy who use it relatively most. That's 38%. of the taxpayer with an income of more than DKK 700,000. for persons with an income of less than DKr 200,000. 5.4% per year. So if you look at it in isolation, it is a tax relief for the very wealthiest. Then there's the whole discussion about whether there's a socio-economic gain in this. At least some calculations have shown that it costs around 1.5 million. kr. per created jobs. We really think that, and we have also said this in the past, there may be reason to have some of these schemes, but as I also mentioned, this is a very expensive scheme, and we also think it is an unfocused scheme. There is the same tax credit for a wealthy couple who want to have a Jacuzzi, and it must be well-off to them, but then they actually have to pay for it themselves. And there is no advantage, for example. to replace its windows or other energy-saving items, and we would actually have liked that, if we were to discuss this forward-looking thing, that there was a gain or a deduction for energy-efficient projects. So I will not stand and deny that we will ever have to discuss it again, but I think it should be a more focused arrangement. For the reasons I have mentioned here, the SF supports the fact that the system that has always been meant to be a temporary arrangement does not continue. So, to sum up, we think the scheme is too expensive and it is too unfocused. And it is also socially skewed; the figures show that. Now I hope that in a moment I will have questions from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen or Mr. Brian Mikkelsen on undeclared work, because it is a very good discussion to have, and we in the tax group are also occasionally discussing undeclared work. And there I just have to say that especially in relation to the Conservatives, I think it's really pleasing with this focus on undeclared work and what we can do to counter it. But like my colleague Mr. Nadeem Farooq I believe that there is probably not one solution that will ensure forever that there is no undeclared work. Finally, I must also say that we who are sitting in here can afford to have conversational kitchens and all sorts of other things done, and some of that we have so far been able to deduct, but you must have a certain income before you can finance these things, even though you saw in relation to a small part of it a deduction. So for these reasons, we say no to the proposal, but it may well be that we will have to discuss it again another time if it is made for a better regime that is more focused, more socially reasonable and which also very much wants to have an energy-saving aim.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133651	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133654	I sign for SF to say that the basic idea of the housing job scheme is not foreign to SF. I'm glad. In a sense, it is of course no surprise because the SF helped to support the proposal when the VK government introduced it in 2011 and was involved when it was extended by the growth agreement, but SF has then made a finance agreement where it is not included. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that it is of course the most prosperous who use it most. I just hope, for the record, that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can confirm that out of the over 550,000 Danes who have used the scheme, it is 310,000 people who have an income of up to DKK 350,000 who have used the scheme. This means that more than half of those who have used the housing job scheme have an income of less than DKr 350,000. I just want to know if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen will consider them particularly wealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133802	But I am also quite sure that I said that relatively speaking, it is the most wealthy who have used the scheme. I think we're referring from the same paper. That's 38%. of the taxpayer with an income of more than DKK 700,000. per year applying the scheme. In comparison with people who have an income of less than DKK 200,000, it is just over 5%. Figures can be thankful, which is why it is also important to be precise. That's because these income groups aren't equal. They are different, and therefore one has to be clear and precise when speaking in absolute and relative numbers. And when you speak in relative terms compared to the group of wealthy people I think you can say that if the income exceeds DKK 700,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133855	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133856	It is quite true that there has been a discussion about these figures. I just do not think that this is a fair way of trying to stamp out who is using the housing job scheme when you say that it is mostly the wealthy. Yes, yes, but I just find it quite interesting that more than half of those who have used the housing job scheme are Danes with an income of less than DKK 350,000. Then it may well be that SF would rather speak percentages and how much it then represents. I just think it is fantastic to have a scheme which over 300,000 Danes with not very large incomes have had the opportunity to use and which they have used. This means that in the quest to bother 38,000 wealthy Danes it is fine with SF that there will then be DKK 310,000. for the same purpose. Isn't that a bad prey?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204133952	I don't think sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen is reasonable when I try to get to him a little and say that it may well be that another time we can make such a scheme again. I think there are things that have shown when we have looked at the scheme and evaluated it, that it needs to be tightened up. It is a very expensive system per person. I would also like to point out that it is socially skewed. That is also why I tried to be very precise in saying who has relatively used it most. We're looking at the same piece of paper, so we agree on the numbers. It is true that there is also a very large group in the middle-income group, if one can put it that way, and there is also a proportion with relatively low incomes. I tried to list a number of things that make us not supporting it, and it is not just because we are included in the financial law agreement, but we think it could be more focused and that the scheme could be arranged in a different way, for example. also had an energy-saving aim. That is also why I am trying to meet the rapporteur a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204134056	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204134102	Now a lot has been said about the employment effect of this. I guess there are two comments on this: if you have a billion, you get the most employment by spending it on more welfare. So if that is what you want, I think you should argue for it. I would also say that as far as the housing job scheme is concerned, it is probably a big question how much more is being done than would otherwise have been done. Well, I think most of the projects that have been made with support from the housing job scheme had been made anyway. They may have been brought forward for some time, but I do not think that those who have built new additions for their summer house or have repaired the summer house they may have in France or whatever it is they have received subsidies for would have done so anyway. It's just happened now instead of because there was a tax credit you could get. I would not rule out the possibility that we could support in the Enhedslisten a housing job scheme of some kind or other we have also discussed this. Then we have just said that it should be in connection with making energy renovations, i.e. some things to improve the climate and the environment. You could think about that. But it has been more the case that we would rather have given the subsidies directly, and that is the case at all. If you want to spend public money to support different purposes, it may be better to give them as a grant for a project instead of giving them as a tax credit. Because it turns out that people are very creative when they need something done. And they'd like to get a deduction for that. Perhaps it is better to say that we would like to give money for a specific project. So we're not much for this whole scheme, which is being proposed here, but if it had been for energy saving or climate improvement, perhaps we could have discussed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204134314	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204134321	Tax deductions are nice to have for everyone who pays taxes, and that is why you can ask for deductions for all kinds of things, because then you will have to pay something less in tax, and that is certainly a purpose we also support, that is to say people will pay less in tax, because they generally pay too much. But when you have 1.1 billion. kr., as this is expected to cost the Treasury, one has to consider where one would prefer to lighten the tax if one wants to lighten the tax. We would much rather, for example. lower the top tax than having a housing job scheme. We would also much rather increase the employment allowance than have a housing job scheme. With the 1.1 billion. kr. you can lower the top tax from 15%. 13 per cent. Alternatively, the employment allowance can be increased so that every single Dane who is in work gets a relief from the tax of approx. 500 kroner. a year. So if you are in favour of a housing job scheme, you have to say: Well, we do, because we would rather have a housing job scheme than we would like to increase the employment allowance, so every Dane in work gets 500 DKK. More to himself. Or we should say: we would rather have a housing job scheme than we would lower the top tax rate from 15 to 13 per cent. People who are in favour of the housing job scheme must say that they would rather do so than anything else. So that's where we feel differently. We would rather increase the employment allowance, we would rather lower the top tax than preserve the housing job scheme. So that's our priority. One of the reasons why we are doing this is that there is virtually no employment effect of the housing job scheme only a very, very small one. The employment resulting from the housing job scheme is employment which would either have been there no matter what, or moved from elsewhere in society to the places where there is a housing job deduction. Well, people would have carried out those housing renovation projects, whether there was a deduction for it or not. That does not give rise to any employment effect. Then there are the homeowners who think: We can spend our money on everything, but there is only one consumption that is deducted, so we choose that consumption; we choose to renovate our accommodation, because there is a deduction. But that means that they cannot spend the same money on going to a restaurant, for example. or buy some new clothes or go to a movie or something. So when the people choose to renovate their housing because there is a deduction there, they opt out of another consumption, and the other consumption that they opt out then triggers less employment in the areas where they do not spend the money. So there is no employment effect either. On the other hand, there is an employment effect of increasing the employment allowance and reducing the top tax. This actually results in more people wanting to make an effort on the labour market or to make an extra effort on their work. This increases employment. The housing job scheme doesn't do that. I would also like to say that for some of us who use the housing job scheme I have also used the housing job scheme, as Mr. Nadeem Farooq is a big annoyance that we have to enter and fill out some forms and schedules on the Internet to get some money that we could have just gotten by paying something less in taxes. In fact, we prefer to pay something less in income tax rather than having to enter and fill things on the Internet in order to be allowed to get the same money as you could have had if you had just had a lower tax. So I have some doubts as to whether it is actually the Danes who think this is an excellent idea, because of course they use the scheme when it is there. But wouldn't they actually prefer that they didn't have to go online and write some stuff, but could just be allowed to keep their money? And is it perhaps the case that the interests of the proponents of the housing job scheme are in fact the interests of the special masters of the crafts and of their organi sation? those masters of the crafts and organisations who would like to have a housing job scheme because, of course, they want consumers to get a deduction to use exactly what these masters of the crafts offer, so that people do not go to the restaurant instead of or go to the cinema instead of or buy clothes for the money instead? I think it is more of an act of interest on behalf of a particular industry that we are doing here and not so much that we want to increase employment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204134827	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204134837	The housing job plan has been a brilliant success in the sense that according to Danish Construction, it has raised employment with 5,000 people, and it has started lifting black work to white and thus generated growth. It has also helped to ensure that there is a motivation for hiring white labour instead of black labour. According to the Rockwool Foundation's latest analysis, approx. 46 billion kr. black work. And one of the intentions we must have in the Danish Parliament must, after all, be to move some black work to some white work. How do you do that? Of course, this is done by making white work attractive. So I must also correct the previous speaker. There is, of course, a dynamic effect in moving black work to some white work, and it then also generates more revenue for society, and it also provides some more incentives. So it's not just a zero-sum game that you make a housing job plan. That is also why the wise men say that if you remove the housing job plan, you cut 0.25 per cent. of our growth in Denmark • 0.25 per cent. You balance like that all the time. Now there was just 0.5%. Here in the last GDP figure. But if you cut 0.25 percent. Of course, our growth means losing jobs and losing productivity in the private sector. It also gives productivity, of course, that you get some more jobs and that you get to do some white work instead of some black work. So when you look at the effects of the housing job plan, it gives growth in society. It gives everything else equal jobs, and everything else equal generates the black work for white work. Then why not just strike? I think it has something to do with the left, despite previous promises, which said that the system would be maintained and I can find a number of quotes from the SF and the Socialists and Radicals that the system would be maintained, and this was promised before the elections and all sorts of other things rather spend some money on keeping people in passive support. This Finance Act has used money to eliminate mutual support. Money has been spent to increase the trade union quota allowance and such things as keep people out of the labour market. The Finance Act, which the government has now presented here with the elements agreed with the Left, means less employment and less growth. The removal of the mutual breadwinner obligation means 1.000-1.200 lost in employment. So you have chosen to give priority to passive support and help to your friends. This is a dimension which, after all, is important to bear in mind that the friends who have then been helped with the high trade union allowance and the removal of the dependent are then penalised by abolishing the housing job plan. It is interesting to see that those who are almost the most at the barricades of the housing job plan are the different trade unions. It is the electrical installers, it is the carpenters, yes, it is also the 3Fs and plumbers who know that they are going to lose jobs. So here we see a real alliance between trade unions and employers because we agree that it gives rise to growth and employment. Nevertheless, the government chooses to abolish a system which is unquestionably an economic and employment success. It's a state of bankruptcy for the government. We will do everything we can to change this resolution, both in the light of the votes later here in December on the Finance Act, in which we will also table it here as an amendment, but also in the event of a bourgeois government coming after the next elections. If there is a majority for such a government, it will be crucial for the Conservative People's Party that we have the housing job plan reinstated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204135318	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen, the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204135332	Thank you for the debate. Of course, there are some things that are more clear than one might have hoped. There is no doubt that the reason why we are tabling the resolution is, of course, that we believe that the housing job scheme is beneficial to the Danish economy, it is beneficial to the Danish families. When you look at the Finance Act signed by the government, SF and Enhedslisten, the 31-page agreement is devoid of growth initiatives. I am grateful that it was also made clear here in the course of the debate that, in isolation, the Financial Act did not compensate for the disappearance of the housing job scheme, as was said by the government parties. I think that was very frankly said, and then it completely falls into the priority that many people have been talking about, namely that there is something more important than anything else. We have then seen that it is a scheme which, according to the Danish Building Agency, guarantees 5,000 jobs. If you take the Ministry's figures from the last time, the housing job scheme was extended, it was between 1,700 and 2,700, so whether it should be one or the other figure, peace be with it, but in thousands of jobs • and Dansk Byggeri says that it is 400 apprenticeships that are the result of the housing job scheme. We do not think that we are in a situation in Denmark where we can just let 5,000 jobs disappear. We need there to be more work in the wheels, we need it to be easier to be a family in Denmark and we need to do something about the black work. I have to say to some of what was said, among other things. from the Socialist rapporteur that it was such a helping hand, but there should not be too much of it anyway in the course of the debate I mentioned that it is such a little something from the Social Democratic Party and the SF that supported the housing job scheme when it was introduced and when it was extended. It is interesting to see what was written at the time in his report's contribution, when the housing job scheme was introduced, where, among other things, one of the reasons for this was that it was not possible to find a job. wrote: "In addition, it is absolutely necessary to give children's families better opportunities to get the busy everyday life to hang together with two jobs, closing days in the day institutions and shortened opening hours are a great help for the purchase of domestic services. So that is what the Social Democratic Party and the SF wrote in the report back in 2011, namely that there should also be help for the families of children. It was a good way to relieve families in a busy everyday life, to get a little help to make everyday life hang together, to get a little cleaning help or help to mow the lawn, or whatever needed in the small homes. But it's obviously not really important anymore. A different priority has now been given, but that is to say nothing for the benefit of the families. Then several rapporteurs have also spoken about the fact that this was not really important in relation to the black work, and they referred to the Rockwool Foundation's study. It might well be that one had to be a little more thorough in relation to the study that the Rockwool Foundation carried out. In connection with the presentation of the report, the Rockwool Foundation announced that there was probably an effect on undeclared work, but it was not easily demonstrated. It should also be pointed out that this study is based on 2012, and this is the first full year in which the housing job scheme was in force, and there are therefore some limitations in the study. But if you look at other studies, you can say that Danmarks Statistik is not necessarily a direct extension of the Left Secretariat. They carried out a study in 2013 in which the proportion of employees in the construction industry, who reported having worked black in recent years, decreased from 25 per cent. in 2011 to 14 per cent. in 2013. However, in all modesty it is a very big fall, but apparently it has no effect on undeclared work, it says. Of course, you could also try to ask the Danes how their demand for undeclared work has turned out, because it is probably they who buy what has a good idea whether they have done it in one way or another. Surveys show, therefore, that the housing job scheme has had a major effect on undeclared work, with 38%. directly says: Yes, I buy less black work. So I think that some of the arguments that have been used, i.e. do not stand for a closer test, in relation to what it really means. This also applies, of course, to the objection raised by the Social Democratic Party, which SF also made to a certain extent and we had the discussion with the SF rapporteur about who really is using the housing job scheme, and I fully agree that the former tax minister was very busy making up for percentages and relative considerations, but I just think that in 2013 there should be no doubt that 554,000 Danes were using the housing job scheme. Of them, 38,000 earned more than 700,000 kroner, 60,000 earned between 500,000 kroner. and 700,000 kroner, while about 450,000 of those using the housing job scheme earned less than half a million kroner, and about 300,000 earned less than DKr 350,000. Then I think it is to tighten it up something to say that it is a wealthy system and it is a scheme that excites people where income is greatest, when you see how widely it has been used, how many Danes have used it, how many of the families of children, about which Social Democracy and the SF said it was actually a good idea to give them a helping hand and to make it a little easier to be a family of children who have benefited from the scheme, which is now thought they can do without. But of course I am grateful that SF was a little more accommodating than I might have expected, so I would like to sign for that. Then, of course, it is interesting to hear from the Liberal Alliance that you would rather do something different and that it is just a matter of interest. Now I also hope that it is emphasised that this has both a job effect, it has an effect that makes black work white, and it aims to make everyday life easier for families with children. That is what makes it a good idea, overall. If I am not mistaken, the Liberal Alliance has previously supported proposals to extend the housing job scheme, so I have not forgotten what it has been like in the past. But the whole discussion basically reflects that we are in a situation where the government chooses to give priority to something else. Despite what has been said in the past, despite the fact that much is said about the need for growth and employment, indeed, a financial agreement has been chosen which contains absolutely nothing that is conducive to growth. It is very significant, as was said by the rapporteurs of the government parties, that in isolation there is nothing in the Finance Act to compensate for the abolition of the housing job scheme. I thought that was honest talk. You'd rather spend the money on increased public spending. It's fair enough, but then it just sounds hollow, compared to the fact that there is a growth challenge in Denmark. We are all waiting for the government to make the next economic statement, which is due to come here in December, when the government has announced that growth prospects and growth estimates should be reduced, and then it is just a pity that a government that is aware of this has admitted that growth is being downgraded and is making a financial agreement without new growth initiatives. It's a confession case, it's bad for Denmark, but it might be good for the calm in the stomach of the government. I believe that the Danes are more concerned with ensuring that we keep employment going and take initiatives that help Denmark in the right direction, and that would have meant a continuation of the housing job scheme. I welcome the parties that support the scheme, and I am glad that some of them, I perhaps did not expect it from, made positive statements which, to a modest extent, can be a little cheerful, and that must of course always be welcomed. It has, of course, been liberating to make the positions fully clear today, and I hope that is also clear to those who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140254	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140258	I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left, whether the rapporteur of the Left would agree that if we use what the Minister of Finance has baptized common methods of calculation, and which a broad majority of the Danish Parliament would like to use when calculating this kind of thing, more employment will come out of spending 1.1 billion. kr. to either lower the top tax or increase the employment allowance than by spending 1.1 billion. kr. to continue the housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140330-2	Without the exact figures, I am quite sure that when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says it is certainly correct. I will not dispute that at all. However, as I also made a great effort to explain, this contains a number of positive elements. It contains employment effects; it has an effect on converting black work into white work; it is about giving families a helping hand in everyday life. And when we do all the different elements, it's that we on the Left say this is so important that we want to give priority to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140405	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140406	Lowering the top tax and raising the employment allowance also have a number of positive elements in it. That's one of them. That is why the Left itself has a battle number in the Left's policy that the employment allowance should be increased. This makes it better to work; it means that there is more money out there in working families; it means that working families can support themselves instead of holding their hats in their hands against the public when they need some money, etc. etc. So these are also positive elements. I should just like to say quite clearly that in a choice between the housing job scheme and the employment allowance, the Left wants to give priority to the housing job scheme for the employment allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140452	Now we in the Left are in the happy situation that we have taken into account the fact that we want both and that we have funding for both in our draft budget. In fact, we are in complete agreement with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen in that it must pay off to work. That is why we are proposing a job reform which should reduce the tax on people with small incomes and introduce the modern ceiling on cash benefits. Because it has to pay better to work. So we have the same wishes and we have money for both in our draft budget. - Sir, you can. Ole Birk Olesen be quite comfortable with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140522	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140542	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204140607	As I have mentioned, the series of resolutions tabled by the Left and others that we are debating today shows that the Left wants random tax cuts without direction. It's not government policy. Instead, the government will strengthen welfare and create a stronger community. With the Finance Act, therefore, the government has given priority to a massive boost of 6.5 billion. kr. for health over the next 4 years and 1 billion. kr. to several educators in kindergartens and crèches. This should be seen in the light of the fact that the government has already improved conditions for business with two major growth packages, such as: There are significant reductions in energy taxes and PSO payments for companies. A motion for a resolution has been tabled to the effect that by the end of 2014 the government will table a bill abolishing NO x Proposers state that NO x In addition, according to the proposers, NO x Proposers propose the abolition of NO x NO x At that time the tax minister was from the Left Party. After just four years of taxing, the Left and others now want to abolish a tax which, by the way, works. Growth and jobs are key issues for the government. At the same time, the government wants to maintain an ambitious climate and environmental policy. In order to create the framework for growth and at the same time reduce pollution, we need to use the best instruments available to us, and this is where, according to international agreements, which I assume are widely recognised, NO x Denmark is committed to reducing air pollution, including NO x Charges are in many cases good instruments to meet environmental objectives and reduce pollution, because uniform and clear economic incentives are created to reduce harmful emissions. NO x NO x x x It is essential for the government that the ambitious climate and environmental policy also take account of the competitiveness of companies. With the last two years of growth packages, the government has improved conditions for business. This includes, among other things: significant reductions in corporate energy taxes by over 3 billion. kr. For comparison, NO x 800 million. kr., of which households account for about half. In reducing energy taxes, the energy costs of companies have been considerably reduced. It supports competitive production. The tax is the same for all included emissions of NO x It provides the same incentives to reduce emissions and thus equal conditions of competition. Today we are only just fulfilling the Danish NO x Abolition of NO x x It will thus be very likely to be necessary to implement the other and I must stress more cost-effective regulation in order to ensure that Denmark meets its international obligations. I find it difficult to see how a socio-economicly more expensive reduction of NO x I am also surprised to hear from the proposers that NO x NO x x x It is estimated that the introduction of NO x x kg. The actual reduction has been greater than the estimated. NO x contributes to the acidification of the climate. For humans, the substance carries an increased risk of respiratory diseases, as well as an increase in the risk of eye, nose and throat irritation. Furthermore, the emissions of NO x Reduction of NO x I think we lack answers from the proposers as to whether they will disregard health and our international obligations, or whether the proposers rather than just want regulation that is more expensive for society and therefore for companies. The government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141132	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141135	I just need to know if it makes an impression on the Minister when a large Danish company, Aalborg Portland, says that there is a risk that with a high Danish NO x and I just need to know if it is not something like this that makes a tax minister wonder whether it is wise now that a tax has been applied in Denmark, which means that what is to be delivered may not be produced in Denmark, but instead because of taxes will be produced in our neighbouring countries • well to notice in a way that energy and climate is less gentle than in Denmark. Is it not something that causes a tax minister to consider: Have we now found the stone shown here at home? If we have now chosen to set up a tax system which guarantees growth and employment, or are we talking about a tax which shoots ourselves in the foot and which simply moves production and jobs out of the country but really does not do anything because NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141255	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141256	In principle, I do not think that individual companies should be dealt with in the Parliamentary Assembly, but I would say that for Aalborg Portland there is in fact a special relaxation. I do not think we should go into the specific example, but that we should just say that it would be the case that if NOx were to be abolished in general and since we do not get an answer to what the other is, which we then want to replace it with, I do not think that anyone in the business world would be able to sleep quietly on the idea of abolishing a system which is the most effective system in which, by the way, there are some cuts for a particular company, such as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is very concerned about the possibility that there will be something else that is currently undefined and that we will only have to note one thing about, and that is that it will be more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141400	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141401	I just note that there is already a situation where Danish companies are so hard pressed on competition that they cannot secure orders for Denmark. I think it is a remarkably relaxed attitude that one of the largest construction projects we are about to put in the lake at home is not certain that a Danish producer can deliver because of the Danish taxes. Does that not give the tax minister reason to think about: have we just put the closet where it should be? Have we now made the most appropriate arrangements to ensure that this country is able to have competitiveness and secure jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141445	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141446	For me, it sounds more and more like this is not a general motion for a resolution tabled by the Left at all. It sounds more like this is all about being interested in a single company and making special initiatives in relation to it. That is fair enough, if that is what you want to discuss, but then you just have to table a resolution on it. I note that we want a general change in the way we reduce NO x It is a little bloody.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141525	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141527	According to the tax minister, the purpose of the high NO x x can be explained by the tax minister how much NO x x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141543	I have indicated in my ministerial speech how much it is. Now I have to go back and find the number, it takes two seconds. That's 15 million. kg, which has been the estimated effect, but the actual reduction has been greater than the estimated, and if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen wants to have it sent over in writing, we do that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141614	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141615	I can inform you that when the government made the bill to fivefold NO x There is not a single person with respiratory problems in Denmark who can feel that NO x There is still 99 per cent gone. of the NO x x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141648	But it has to be said, basically, that we also only exactly meet the international requirements that we have to meet. Denmark is exactly in line with the international requirements that we have to meet in relation to the reduction of NO x. We are obliged to do so, and it may well be that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen believes that we should not live up to international commitments. That's fair enough, but if mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party thinks that we should do it, so it's worth noting that if we don't have a NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141717	Sir. Brian Mikkelsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141719	I would like to follow up on the last question from Mr. Liberal Alliance. Ole Birk Olesen. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at the power plants' efforts, you can see that they have reduced their NO x We know that 90 per cent. of NO x So what effect does it have? So, do you use some environmental shelter to get some tax dollars from Danish companies, which will mean less exports and fewer Danish jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141807	I generally lack answers in this context to what you really want, if you don't want to use this method, then use NO x The only thing we can be reasonably sure of is that something else will be more expensive. Then it may be that sir... Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservatives, who is usually known as an environmentally friendly party, means that you do not care about international commitments. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Brian Mikkelsen acknowledges that there are international obligations to which Denmark has to live up to, also to be sure that other countries are doing something similar. But I simply miss an answer to what is then to be asked instead. At least we haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141849	Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141850	We will have a debate on that. This is not just done by screwing up the tax screw, which means that a tax is fivefold, while at the same time a process was going on until 2012, when the government, because some money was missing in the box to sweeten the lives of Enhedslisten, decided to lift a three-digit million out of business. Then it was seen that NO x It went down, leading to an increase in taxes, even quite quickly. So of course you have methods to get NO x coming from abroad and much from non-stationary installations. So the question is again to the tax minister: wasn't this just a question of having some money in the box to give some money to the Enhedslisten, which will keep people out of active support so that they can get on some passive support? That's why you needed some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141943	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204141943-2	After all, this tax was introduced in the time of the previous government, and it did so because it was believed to be working. It is quite true that NO x because we are not actually told what it is you want to replace, or alternatively you simply want to say: we are just not fulfilling the commitments we have internationally. In other words, we must decide whether or not this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142015	We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list, and I shall begin by giving the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142026	Thank you. Now we are dealing with a motion for a resolution by the Left and Liberal Alliance and Conservatives on the abolition of NO x It is a tax which the former government of the Left and Conservatives themselves introduced, and I think it is also for good reason that there are environmental arguments for it. We have already heard that it can cause problems with respiratory diseases, irritation of eyes, nose and throat, and in nature gives NO x So there are of course some elements here that are about protecting the environment. But it is also true, as has been said several times, that we have international obligations, and we know that this is the cheapest way of meeting international obligations. So before we can take seriously that we want to abolish NO x Having said that, this discussion is also about safeguarding jobs and the interests of the business community, and the proposers claim that NO x In that situation Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen and others mentioned Aalborg Portland specifically. I would draw attention to the fact that the director up there said that it was not because of the increase when at one point the cuts were cut, and the joyful news, which I think we should all note, is that Aalborg Portland announced at the beginning of this week that an extra 600 million was invested. kr. in Aalborg. This suggests that you actually think that you can do something special in Denmark and that you have the opportunity to run a good business. Having said that, the government wants to do a lot of things and has already done a lot to improve business conditions, including reducing energy costs by over 3 billion. kr. in the latest growth packages. We also have, although it should not be a case-by-case with regard to Aalborg Portland specifically, a special scheme which means that very energy-intensive cement production has a special base deduction so that we do not drive it elsewhere. It will also be a little bit fun to hear this when you have no alternative to how we should live up to our obligations. By the way, we understand that there is no collection on the blue block, because the proposals we are debating today are all put forward in such a different constellation, where some are with DF, some are with the Liberal Alliance, some are with them all, some are with a few fewer, so there is no real collection on what economic policy is going to be in the blue block. But what we can see is that the last time the VK was in power, and when Lars Løkke Rasmussen was Prime Minister, which was of course not for an excessive period, 101 increases in corporate taxes were nevertheless achieved. This corresponds to a good increase per week during the period of power of Lars Løkke Rasmussen. So without going into all these discussions, I think it sounds a little like you're taking a free round now that you're thinking: we can quickly get that suggested here, it sounds probably popular, we don't have any funding for it, but we're suggesting it anyway. After all, we have shown that we wanted to reduce taxes, as when we abolished the VK government's truck tax, the fat tax, the multimedia tax, the entrepreneurial tax. We've gone to a lot of places. In this situation, there is no funding for it, apart from what is indicated in its draft budget, which is, of course, rather flabby, given the time when the Finance Act, among other things, was adopted. is linked to 1.5 billion. kr. has been saved on the municipalities' budgets, for which the municipality agreement has been made, and for which I am among others. have noted that the Left Mayors of Glostrup and Haderslev do not want to deliver at Box 1. So I think it is an expression of the suffering of the sick, who says that if you only have a hammer, then all the challenges look like a nail, and that is why in this situation the Left has chosen to say: tax reductions, tax removals are the only thing we can propose, even if it might make it even more expensive to live up to the international commitments that you say you have to, and even if we have actually got a system here at home that means that we can both produce and take care of the environment and jobs in the same transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142509	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142512	Sir. Jens Joel must excuse me if I'm unnecessarily ignorant, but back in 2011, when we were discussing this increase in NO x that's something that's come up. This is the first time I've heard of it. After all, I am not dealing with environmental and climate policy on a daily basis, but Mr. Jens Joel, and Mr. Jens Joel is talking about these international commitments, so I want to know if Mr. Jens Joel can tell me where they're from and when they're here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142550	If what is being asked is whether they were already there in 2011, the answer is yes. This is among other things. What is called the NEC directive, which obliges us to reduce air pollution, among other things. with NO x The vast majority of it is EU legislation and directives from there. How to implement it is, as is often the case in the past, entirely up to the Member States. There we have just made an assessment which, I believe, is similar with the one that was the background to the VK government when they introduced NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142624	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142625	It's just a little weird that we didn't hear anything about this back in 2011, when the government wanted to fivefold NO x. On the contrary, we heard Mr. Per Clausen of the Enhedslisten, who has been involved in voting this through, says that he well acknowledged that this had nothing to do with the environment, because the reduction of 1%. and maybe only at 0.5%. of NO x No, he said it's because we need that money in the box because we need to spend it on something else. That's what Mr. Per Clausen quite openly. And I thought that was the real reason, but now suddenly there are international commitments that I have never heard of before.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142702	I shall not explain why Per Clausen says what he says or why Ole Birk Olesen has not been aware that there are international obligations. We can only note that there are some things that we must, of course, live up to. And it's quite fair to discuss whether you think you're gonna do it this way. It is also quite fair to discuss what an increase in a tax means for production. That is why it is also gratifying that for those companies that have felt under pressure, including, among other things, those. Aalborg Portland, has made a deduction to the so-called bottom payment to ensure that cement can still be produced in Denmark, but has also helped in other ways by a change, so that you can also use the residual product, i.e. the slags that come from cement production, in the road, in other words re-use a product that you had to pay to get rid of in the old days, that is to say to have it deposited. So in this way we have gone into it and asked: how can we organise it here in such a way that we have both the environmental impact that we need to have and, at the same time, protect business and jobs? This is the way the government is proceeding, and I believe that, if you do so in the right way, you can come quite a long way in reconciling those concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142808	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142812	I also note that it is evidently now international obligations which are crucial for NO x Ole Birk Olesen's excellent account, but it was not mentioned in a word when the government chose to multiply the tax five times. It was a confession case from Enhedslisten that said this was about getting some money in the box. So now that it becomes a debate on international commitments, I just need to know which other countries are included in these international commitments, which also have a NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142847	The minister. No, I am sorry, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204142848	Well, it's okay. I can then refer to the Minister if we need an inventory of which countries. I am not the owner of that, i.e. a list of which countries may have NO x What is interesting about this kind of international law is precisely that what is regulated in directives or in agreements is internationally understood, one can implement in the way one thinks is the most sensible. So if that's the discussion, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen would like, and if the Left has a bid on how we can live up to our commitments on NO x the Government has not seen it, and the Social Democrats have not seen any evidence that there is a cheaper way of doing this, and then it's just that if we abolish this NO x I don't know if Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who represents a party that helped to introduce this tax, may be able to clarify whether it did so at that time, on the grounds that it was actually obliged to do something to reduce NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143000	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143001	What caused my question was whether the only solution to these international obligations is taxation. I understand that it is not, as long as it is a very small number of countries that have a NO x I must then understand that all other countries that have chosen to address this in a different way, depending on how they may have chosen to do so, then have misunderstood it completely and shot themselves in the foot. But that is, of course, the council of the Social Democratic Party, namely that if there are only several countries that get NO x that would certainly increase the competitiveness of Danish companies, and it can be said that if that is the way the Social Democrats want to create growth in Denmark, that is to say by getting other countries to introduce a NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143052	Well, long-term plans, fair enough. I think to be honest we need to take each other a little more seriously. If you want to abolish this tax, all we say is that you can answer two things. We can either say that we do not think we need to meet the international obligation. Or you could say, we have another way of doing it. And then you can give us a calculation of what it costs, because then we can have a discussion. This is gonna be a bit of a PR discussion because you want to live up to something, but you just don't want to say how you want to do it. And I can understand that if companies are a little bit nervous about what it means if the Left gets power as they have been watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143128	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143139	Here we have a proposal from the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance on the abolition of NO x The current NO x to 25 kr. per kg. The aim was supposed to have been environmental considerations, but we have just been confirmed by the other rapporteurs that Per Clausen said during the legislative process in 2012 that it was not for environmental reasons, but that it was simply to get money into the box so that they could be spent on other measures. Should this be about the environmental impact, I would say that the environmental impact is very small or largely non-existent. This shows a report made by the economic wise men last year on the environment and climate. Indeed, the report shows that a unilateral, ambitious climate policy will only have a very limited effect on the expected temperature development. In the report, they mention, among other things, that if we were to imagine that all countries that have ratified the Kyoto Agreement, which is among other things. are EU Member States and Canada, which together account for 30%. of the total global greenhouse gas emissions, reduced their emissions by 98 per cent. towards the year 2100, which is quite unrealistic, this would only lead to a limit in the temperature increase of 0.18 degrees Celsius. Now it was thought that by five times NO x I think it's a bit naive, and it just underlines my message that this was more for the sake of getting money in the box, because what it's all about if you're going to do something is global agreements. The reason why this has no effect according to the economic wise men is, of course, that pollution simply moves elsewhere. Companies choose to move to where the tax is not, where you have greater competitive advantages, and therefore it has no effect when the government chooses to fivefold NO x The only thing left is that Denmark will have less competitiveness and hence loss of jobs. So we think it's a pretty limited effect that you get out of this five-fold NO x. This specific proposal means a cost of 310 million. kr. The proposers refer to the need to resolve this in the Finance Act. It is, of course, the case that a financial agreement has been concluded with the government, SF and Enhedslisten, and I do not assume that they choose to open it. There are also several financial legislative proposals from the other three parties, and the Danish People's Party is not part of their proposal, so we are not directly involved in the funding elements proposed by the others, but we think it is a very good idea to have NO x removed could do that, if there were a majority for it in the Folketing. It could also send out a signal that we are prepared to enter into joint discussions on how to find funding if that were the case. But we agree that such a large increase in NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143458	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143508	Thank you. It should not be a secret how the positions on NO x It goes without saying that the parties in the government have one view of it and the opposition another, and then there can be all sorts of nuances between the government and the opposition. I am not going to contribute any further to that right now. I would just like to clarify the issue of levying a tax. What's causing this? Is it some effect for health and the environment, or is it about money in the box? When we chose to increase the tax after a bourgeois minister had plattered the tax itself, it was, of course, about a bottom-up task that we had, which was about getting a revenue in the box, yes. In addition, however, it is also a question of environmental impact. Then you can make environmental effects up in different ways. One can make an environmental impact look marginal by saying that NO x One can choose to look at it more summaryly by saying that it is a reduction of 15 million. kg we're talking about. Whatever the case, it cannot be excluded that the financial expertise involves so-called externalities, i.e. that there are negative effects of pollution which are priced financially. Here it is legitimate and can be defended to have taxes and to raise taxes, and it can be better socio-economically than not to do so. I would actually say that if you look at what the external costs are, you see that they are actually greater than the tax. So I strongly believe that, in addition to revenue considerations, the tax can be defended on the basis of a socio-economic mindset, as it were. But those are my words at first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143739	Yes, please. A new rapporteur is on the way, and this is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204143755	I almost think we have a funeral atmosphere in this Chamber today, and I do not think there is any reason at all for that. Because despite the fact that we do not normally deal with individuals or companies in this Chamber, it is inevitable also to talk about Aalborg Portland, because we have regularly discussed Aalborg Portland in the case of NOx As I believe my socialist colleague also mentioned, Aalborg Portland announced a few days ago that it is necessary to invest 6 billion. kr. over the coming years. Out of the 6 billion. kr. will be 600 million. kr. used to expand the factory in Aalborg. When you come from Aalborg, Aalborg Portland means a lot. There was a member of this thing who said at one point that cement factories and the like Aalborg Portland are sunset industries. I couldn't disagree more, because it takes plenty of cement to set up wind turbines. Cement is very good that we produce in Denmark in the best possible way. It is much better that we produce cement in Denmark than that we do it in other countries. If you go to Aalborg Portland's website, you will see some very fine brochures showing how much they have cut down on a number of parameters, but at the same time they say that the NO x As my radical rapporteur colleague mentioned, there are social costs of a number of sources of pollution, including NO x The cost that we are imposing, for example. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is not in line with the social cost of pollution. We have a general principle that the polluter pays. I would like to finish my speech by saying that I think it is very gratifying when the company we have talked about very much in this matter and which means a lot to me and my home town, is so strong, expanding the factory, investing billions, doing very well. I also believe that this is proof that when we take the lead in Denmark, we will also have companies that take the lead in finding new ways of saving energy. So I think it's a really good day today, which is why I would just like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss NO x Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144016	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144027	Now I also come from Aalborg, I have even worked in Aalborg Portland's subsidiary, Dansk Eternit Fabrik A/S I hope I haven't taken too much harm from it. Well, I don't know how many times I heard that now Aalborg Portland closes. Aalborg Portland is actually such a nice place where there is some of the best chalk in the world to make cement, and they can make something really fine cement, for example. White cement that you can't make many other places in the world. Therefore, it has always been my opinion that Aalborg Portland will of course remain just about where it lies, because the chalk is not so easy to remove; that is, it will take quite a lot of work to get the chalk away from Aalborg and somewhere else. I would say that there have been a lot of threats, I have been completely harsh on threats, among other things. with the help of Aalborg Portland and perhaps we have actually helped Aalborg Portland and the cement factory up there quite a lot through the ages by making some environmental demands. They have been allowed to reject a few, unfortunately, over time, but not all of them. I think it can be said that in this way, compared with others, they have actually generated a very good way of producing cement. And what is the long-term benefit to a factory such as Aalborg Portland is that they are forced to optimise their form of production, including reducing pollution in relation to the environment. So I would say that it is almost an argument against the Left's proposal that we are making these tough demands on companies. They could be tougher, but they are still relatively tough, because this helps to make them more competitive, even around the world. That is also why we saw what one of my predecessors just said: a very large investment programme has been launched, among other things. in Aalborg, because it is a very good place to make cement. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144236	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144247	I would like to start by taking Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and Mr. Nadeem Farooq quite a bit at the word when they say that the polluter has to pay for the damage that the polluter is burdening society with. The NO x NO x of NO x That's e.g. Not people who drive around in cars and the like. The 3%. NO x kr., which you charge in NO x It is the same as saying that the total NO x kr. I don't think it does. I don't have the numbers on my hand, but I don't think that NO x kr. in Denmark. The 3% imposed on NO x x The damage that comes from the 90%. of NO x of NO x So here I don't think the calculation is gonna last; I don't think the polluter here is gonna pay. I think this NO x is also the interesting thing here: how much NO x reduction do you get out of this government five times NO x when 90 percent? of the NO x of the total NO x in Denmark according to the government is imposed NO x x x x x of the total NO x There are many percentages here, but I have learned the percentage mysteries of the calculation so I can find out. 1% less NO x Who here thinks it leads to some having less damage to their airways e.g.? I acknowledge that NO x But to reduce NO x to 99%. Don't make no difference. If we could halve it, it would be really nice, but it wouldn't only require a high NO x x So you have to be careful that things don't just get punched in the air. When the tax we impose in Denmark will inevitably result in production in Denmark becoming more expensive, so that foreign competitors are better placed to compete with Danish companies, why some of the production moves from Denmark to, for example, Denmark. Germany and we then just get NO x Well, some action here has to make a difference, they have to do good. We have only secured a 1% reduction in NO x from Germany. That's why, sir. Per Clausen of Enhedslisten had to admit at some point when we dealt with this in 2011 that this wasn't about the environmental impact. It was just something they had said. No, it was about the fact that the Finance Act, which Enhedslisten entered into with the government, had agreed to spend some money, and that money needed to be brought in. And then you had to come up with some excuse that it was okay to charge that money, and then you said it's NO x And then you thought you could convince all people about it, but eventually you were exposed by the fact that the numbers did fit, but didn't show what you said, namely that there was this environmental effect. Then I would just like to welcome the fact that the Left and Conservatives will now completely abolish NO x They were the ones who introduced it originally, and this government then fivefolded it. But that is how we in the Liberal Alliance welcome each other's inverse sins, and at some point the two parties may come back into government, and then they can implement what they say now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144740	There are a few brief comments. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144744	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen says that 90%. of the NO x Then I assume that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also acknowledges that if you have to do something about NO x When I was on the platform just before, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen a little bit wondering why we suddenly started talking about international commitments. Then I just checked it out because I thought it couldn't be that the Left and the Conservatives, when they came up with this tax, had completely bypassed it. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen's party chairman, Anders Samuelsen, who at that time belonged to another party, helped to make an agreement which did many things, but where among other things. is in the submission address: A new NO x from 1 January 2010 for partial fulfillment of the Danish NO x Kan Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen is suggesting whether it is perhaps an international commitment that has been discussed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144848	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144850	Well, it obviously has. However, it was not talked about when we dealt with the five-fold increase in 2011 and I was very active in it. No one talked about international commitments. Then I'll just correct Mr. Knox. Jens Joel: I do not believe that until 2011 the Liberal Alliance has been involved in introducing NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144911	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144912	Thank you. No, it was the New Alliance, as sir. Ole Birk Olesen's chairman was then a member of the Energy Agreement. What I'm just pointing out is that it said here that a partial fulfillment of the Danish NO x Ole Birk Olesen also recognises that you can only handle if you do so internationally. That also says that if we are to do something about environmental pollution, we have to take the Germans on board, we have to have others on board, and then there is only the question of whether Mr. Ole Birk Olesen thinks we should live up to the agreements we have actually made with the other European countries or whether we should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144953	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204144955	Yeah, if we make deals, we have to live up to them. But there are also different ways to live up to agreements. There are some agreements that are being made internationally, and then it seems that only Denmark lives up to them, while everyone else is just riding freewheels. In general, I am not in favour of such agreements, because that means that we are making things harder for our domestic companies so that they can benefit from moving production abroad, where it will then be less heavily taxed. If the New Alliance was then in an energy agreement with this, then I'm smarter today, and I'm thankful to Mr. Simpson. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145031	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145038	Well, it's a little bit like this, that Mr. Chandler... Ole Birk Olesen thinks it's too little that comes out of this charge: what should we do to get some more environmental impact?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145052	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145053	Well, you can never have enough environmental impact, no matter how much we raise this charge. Because no matter how much we raise the tax on the emissions of NO x stationary plants, 90 per cent will. of the NO x This means that even if we abolish all NO x of the NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145123	Thank you. Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145126	Now, I didn't ask if the Liberal Alliance was against the tax. I understand that. But what do we do then to prevent so much NO x coming in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145137	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145139	I can't answer the question. This requires more knowledgeable people into environmental and climate policy. I can just stand here as the tax rapporteur and see that this NO x x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145201	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145215	Let's put it as it is: NO x from the 5 kroner it was on in 2010. We have become wiser and will also remove the five crowns that we ourselves helped to introduce under the VK government, and we will remove NO x Why do we want to do that? Firstly, it is shown by people who have studied it here, and by all the experience that is that it has no effect that you have a NO x of pollution from NO x When CONCITO, who otherwise is not normally on the bourgeois wing, as the environmental assessment organisation has been out saying that they cannot measure any effect of NO x x We know that it only gives money in the box like this at the entrance, but when you take the exit, it may be that Danish society loses money. Because what does that mean? This means that our Danish companies will be disadvantaged in the competition, and it is not only the company located in North Jutland, because we can also take the Danish energy companies. The Danish power plants themselves lose approx. 250 million kr. in lost electricity exports due to NO x So they are located all over the country; they are not only located in a large city up in North Jutland. So this is just one thing: you wanted some more money into the 2012 Finance Act to be given to sweeten the lives of Enhedslisten. Taxes were raised by 5.6 billion. kr. in the Finance Act. It had only one objective: to increase public expenditure. There you would then have to use some taxes and taxes, which is why you have five times the NO x you can also see that when NO x then it is a pan-European effort that needs to be done. We are clear that no x is removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145451	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145455	I very much agree with Mr. Brian Mikkelsen in that if you're gonna do something effective about this, it's gonna have to be international. Now it's just that there's actually Mr. Mener. Brian Mikkelsen and the Conservatives that we should live up to international agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145511	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145512	If you have made an agreement in the EU and the Danish government has committed itself to it, you must of course do so. However, for the many years I have been a minister, I have seen that all kinds of expressions can be made, especially in the field of the environment and climate, where it is usually only Denmark and a few other countries that live up to it, with the effect that it costs a lot of jobs and economy in Denmark, because we in Denmark always have the gloria over our heads compared to all the other countries and those in the other countries do not implement it. So, for example, if binding agreements are made in the European Union for all 28 countries, that is fine with us, but it should not just be in the form of declarations of intent at environmental and climate level. When it comes to that, in the various countries we are world champions in making all kinds of promises, and the only ones who really implement it are Denmark and a few other countries. It costs on the bottom line, it costs on employment, and it costs on growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145559	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145601	Well, if the Conservative People's Party and Mr. Brian Mikkelsen believes that we must live up to international commitments, how does the Conservative People's Party propose to do so if it is not through a NO x?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145612	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145613	We should make an agreement between all 28 countries, where we committed each other and said that these are the objectives we have here. And that's where you use the instruments you can use, and that's among other things. the incentive instruments. This is not done just by raising the tax to 25 DKK. with a five-fold increase, because we can see what has happened with regard to NO x There hasn't really happened very much. The big, huge tiger jump happened until 2012, when the tax was less, and also before, where the tax wasn't there at all. So this is basically just about introducing a tax to give some money to the Enhedslisten during the finance negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145653	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204145702	The tax minister said in his introduction that this was just random tax cuts without direction, and it seems that it is the mantra that we have to hear from the tax minister about all the proposals today. I think it would be quite clear to the tax minister if he were to try to relate a little bit to reality that it is a question of ensuring that it is better conditions for growth in Denmark that are on the agenda. Because when we want to maintain the housing job scheme, when we want to do something for the tourism industry, and when we want to abolish NO x As I said, it is in stark contrast to the finance agreement that the government has made with SF and Enhedslisten. It is 31 pages which are completely mirrored in relation to growth-enhancing initiatives that are not a single one. It may, of course, be because it is a direction in which the government finds it difficult for it to cause such problems to the tax minister. I think it is crucial that we do something, and NO x I know that the Socialists call it a free round and say that there is no funding. Yes, it is so in stark contrast to the fact that we on the Left have financed our wishes through our financial act, which even operates with a bigger manko than the government does. But you just have to do things, and as some tried to say, it is obviously a discussion about a single company in Denmark. But it's wrong. There may be a company that is more exposed in the debate than others, namely Aalborg Portland. One could also mention Skamol, one could mention the Danish fish meal factories, one could mention the many horticultures on Funen. There are many companies that pay NO x There are many for whom the Danish NO x Of course you can choose to look at easily, you can also choose to be worried. Worried was 3F at least in his time, when NO x It was strongly warned against fear of Danish jobs, and the Socialist rapporteur had a party colleague, Mr. Rasmus Prehn, who said that it was definitely a tax on unskilled workers in the outskirtsdanmark. But both 3F and Mr. Rasmus Prehn can then apparently be completely misplaced, we can understand when we listen to the government and social democracy today. For the Left, it is crucial that we ensure that Danish companies have conditions that enable us to secure Danish jobs and that we ensure that Danish companies can secure themselves in the competition globally. There's NO x I'm not going to repeat the equation that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen explained very well how modest the Danish tax has and how much originates from abroad. But I think that is very telling, and that also applies to what Mr. Brian Mikkelsen mentioned that CONCITO, which does not usually hold back with environmental concerns, had to admit that the world was not exactly helped by the Danish NO x Because if you are concerned about doing something about NO x For goods produced in other countries, most often, without having to talk badly about other countries, comes from a production where energy consumption is greater and where environmental impact is greater. Of course, we can choose to say that we can then meet our international obligations, and there was someone who quite rightly referred to a colleague from in here who is now sitting on the bench, who said that we could solve all of the country's CO2 It is of course true that this is how we can meet our obligations. I just don't think there will be much more good climate or environment out of moving jobs and production out of Denmark and to other countries where the environmental impact is greater. It is also telling when you look back at what the arguments were when NO x Yes, it was about generating revenue for the expenditure-intensive proposals you had. I think, if I remember correctly, that we actually asked a lot about the health effects of the five-fold increase in NO x We thought it would be nice to know, because if we can really do something about the living conditions of the Danes, we can make sure that the Danes live longer, then it will be very interesting. However, when you went through the beautiful headlines, if I don't remember completely wrong, the government estimate back in 2011 would mean that we would live on average 9 minutes longer. And of course I have to say that is the closest thing the government has come to fulfilling its 12-minute plan. So it was 12 minutes longer that the Danes had to work every day, but it was then exchanged for a possible extension of our lifetime by 9 minutes with great uncertainty. It is fair enough to say that it is worth it; everyone is free to make that priority. On the left side, we believe that we need to ensure that companies have proper conditions, that we have to do something about our competitiveness. And we do not see anything that moves in the right direction in the Finance Act that the government has made together with Enhedslisten and SF. That is why we come up with a proposal which has a clear aim: to ensure that the competitiveness of Danish companies is strengthened, that we can secure more private jobs, which, after all, even the government and the left know that this is the prerequisite for all the welfare that the public sector provides can be financed; it is therefore that there is a well-functioning private sector that brings export earnings home to the country that creates private employment. And if you want to make sure there's something to benefit from, it's also important to remember how to make the cake bigger once in a while. That is the purpose of this proposal, and I am, of course, pleased with the parties that support it, but I am not surprised to see that there is no majority in favour of it. But then we will have to see if we can obtain a majority on the other side of a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150434	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150439	This is such a rather strange debate, because it seems that what we disagree about is whether jobs should be created and whether we should ensure that production can take place in Denmark. But that is what we agree on, and that is why, among other things, we agree. have created growth plans together, where we have reduced energy taxes for companies by 3 billion. kr. But what we do not agree on is how to meet our international commitments in this area in terms of reducing NO x. And that is why I would like to ask, first of all, just to make it simple: Does Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen and the Left that we must live up to our international commitments, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150516	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150517	Yes, Denmark must live up to its international obligations. But what we do not agree on is whether we have done enough to ensure growth and employment in Denmark. There I understand that the Social Democratic Party believes: Okay, the government must downgrade the growth estimate; during this week or next week there will be an Economic Statement that lowers the growth prospects for the Danish economy; but there is no need for any more, it is going so well. It is fair enough that this is the attitude of the government and the Social Democratic Party. We just don't see it that way from the left side. We think more is needed. And that is the clear political dividing line: do you want to create more private jobs in Denmark, or do you not want to? The dividing line is very clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150559	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150601	No, it's not a dividing line, because we can discuss that. We can start on that now. But Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen said: Yes, we must live up to our international commitments. And then I just ask, if you think that NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150621	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150623	I think it would have been helpful if we had listened to what has been said in the past from the platform. Because it is not the case that nothing happened compared to NO x There was a reduction; there are other tools. So to reassure Mr. Jens Joel I would say that one can just take an example from, I think it was the electricity cartridge law in 2005, which without making tax impositions, but by making it attractive to make better use of energy, NO x lowered and if other countries that have international obligations believe that it can be done without making a NO x
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150709	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150730	The debate is open. The Secretary of the Treasury, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204150804	Thank you, President. After all, it is not long since the government reached a broad agreement on a tax reform, which the Left actively helped to shape, and it is therefore a little comical that we should discuss elements of the reform so soon after that again. But the picture is quite clear after today's debate on the other proposals: the Left wants some random tax cuts without a very clear direction. The government wants something else; we want to strengthen the welfare, we want to create a stronger community, at the same time as we aim to improve the framework conditions for Danish business. With the Finance Act agreement, the government has among other things. Priority was given to a massive health boost of 6.5 billion. kr., and the area of educators in kindergartens and crèches we have lifted by 1 billion. kr. In the field of health, the government wants a multi-annual priority, in which the Left in its draft Finance Act alone prioritised the area in 2015. The progress in welfare must be seen in the light of the fact that conditions for business have already improved with two major growth packages, such as: There are significant reductions in energy taxes and PSO payments in companies. In the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group has tabled a motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 proposal to cancel the indexation of excise duties in 2015. The indexation constitutes one of the financing elements of the 2012 Tax Agreement that the Left and Conservatives helped to put together. The money was thus used to finance tax reductions. But now that the bill has to be paid and there is a choice on the horizon, the Left and Conservatives will not really stand by the agreements they have made. The proposal will result in an annual reduction in revenue of approx. 175 million kr. The proposal by the proposers is motivated by the desire to avoid conversion costs for the production companies, and I must confess that I cannot follow the logic behind it. We have just chosen to implement the proposals by discretionary changes to the fees in 2015 and 2018 for the sake of corporate administrative costs. The companies therefore know exactly what is to be expected and they have known for some time. In addition, the producer undertakings are still adjusting their prices in view of the competitive situation and changes in raw material prices, etc. Therefore, it is not likely that indexing of excise duties according to the model we have proposed will have significant administrative consequences. That is a good thing about the Left and Conservatives, and that is probably why they voted in favour of indexation in the context of tax reform. I guess so. However, the Left and Conservatives go further and say that indexation now also leads to increased cross-border trade. The indexation rules have been introduced to maintain the real value of the tax. Thus, if we were not indexed, the charges would in fact fall compared to the prices of other goods and services and therefore cross-border trade would not increase as long as the level of taxation in the neighbouring countries is also maintained in real terms. Therefore, the government does not expect indexation to have a significant impact on border trade, and if, contrary to expectations, there are challenges with cross-border trade, we will of course deal with it. Let me now say a few words about B 30. In the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group, the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group has tabled a motion for a resolution (Doc. B 30 proposed to impose on the government a pool of 250 million in the 2015 Finance Act. kr., which targets the reorganisation of excise duties. The authors state that there is a considerable burden associated with many different excise duties, and it is especially in the food and environment that there are a number of illogical and obsolete excise duties. The authors also consider that excise duties should be cleared up where the administrative costs for businesses are unnecessarily high compared with the revenue generated by the levies. I must agree with the authors that we have a great many excise duties, some of which have very long traditions; it is back to the middle-year wars for some of the taxes. However, the vast majority of people have a health or environmental purpose which, of course, must be considered before the abolition. In this respect, I would like to warn against the fact that you can think that you can simply botanise in excise duties. The tax on a number of products is linked to each other so that it creates problems if one removes the tax on one product but not on the other. These considerations mean that it can quickly cost a great deal to clean up the charges. Furthermore, I would like to point out that tax reporting and payment are organised in the same way both for VAT and for the different excise duties. It is done electronically via TastSelf Business, which helps to reduce administrative burdens. However, it is true that there are certain excise duties which do not generate so much revenue and which might well be seen as abolishing them. In the government, we are very focused on generally reducing corporate burdens, and corporate conditions have improved with two major growth packages. Most recently, the government has proposed no. L 64, which was submitted on 12 November, proposed several simplifications of a number of tax laws, such as: the abolition of alcohol bands in connection with the right of the recipient of the goods to reimbursement of export duties is a simplification. In the past, the government has also abolished several excise duties such as the soda-water tax, the weight-based packaging tax and CO2 but also the reproached fat tax has been abolished. This is the one that was introduced under the previous government. The sugar levy was not extended and no security of supply tax was introduced, as has been agreed in the past. The government is I believe that there may be good reason to keep track of the evolution of excise duties, both in terms of the administrative burden on businesses and in terms of state revenue. The government already does. But I do not agree with the creation of an earmarked pool. Finally, the Left and Conservatives have yet to finance their proposals. 175 million kr. to one, 250 million. kr. To the other thing, that kind of money doesn't hang on the trees. Then, of course, it is very good to want to finance the expenditure under the Finance Act, but the Left bases unrealistic expectations on its draft budget. For example: The Left will save 1.5 billion. kr. in 2015 by the opening of competition in municipalities and regions. This is not very realistic for a number of reasons. Among other things: This will require the reopening of economic agreements with municipalities and regions for 2015, precisely agreements which the Liberal Party has voted in favour of in the Folketing. In this respect, I note that a number of Left Mayors clearly reject the fact that 11⁄2 billion can be saved. kr. on competition postponement in 2015. This also applies to the Chairman of KL, Martin Damm, and Vice-President of the Danish Regions, Carl Holst. The Left also envisages a budget law with no reserves for unforeseen expenditure. It is a careless and risky approach because there is very great uncertainty about budgeting many of the state's spending. The Left's policy of zero growth does not make it possible to ensure a systematic expansion of welfare. That kind of thing requires solid multiannual priorities. The government cannot back that approach to things. We would rather ensure targeted improvements in the citizen-centred service within the framework of a responsible, economically sustainable policy. We are opposed to the tax concessions of the Left, which are without clear direction and which are not funded in a credible way. The government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151604	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151608	After all, my speaking time or question time does not allow me to answer all the nonsense that the tax minister was allowed out of, but let me just start by taking the first misunderstanding. The tax minister talks about the government's priority of 6.5 billion. kr. That's bullshit. It is permanent, and the tax minister knows that very well. But of course it's the easiest way. If you cannot manage by using the truthful interpretation of things, you can invent your own. When the Minister of Taxation says that it is running from agreements that have been made by oneself, I just want to know if the government has not also come up with other ideas in connection with the tax agreement that was made in 2012. In other words, it already came with its 2011 Finance Act, and there it subsequently failed to introduce its sugar tax, but part of the agreement in 2012 was to abolish Section 33 A of the equation law, the so-called Posting Tax. The government regretted that, too. So I just want to say: I guess it's someone else who can come up with better thoughts. I just think it's a little mocking that the tax minister is saying that when the rest of us say this is bad, that it was part of a whole package that we had to accept and say that we want it out, it's quite awful, but when the government does it itself, it's quite okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151731	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151733	In a number of different areas it may be difficult to know exactly what the Left thinks, but I understand that it is the case that in any case I hope that the rapporteur will confirm that the agreements generally advocated will be maintained. I have to admit that from time to time I find that there are some other reports coming out in public where you are actually going to believe that it is the case that the Left will not stand by the agreements they enter into. But, of course, I hope that the rapporteur can generally deny that. Of course, it is clear that I am well aware of the element of polemical debate that we are always expected to have in the context of a financial law, and that is why it is quite all right for these resolutions to be tabled. Of course that is not the case at all. However, I have to say that, in relation to the whole discussion on a financial law, we can of course have a very long debate on whether or not an overall economic plan has been put forward, but it must probably be more in the debate on the financial law itself for the third reading, for the next debate, that we should take it and not in the debate on this specific resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151848	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151850	I just think it is appropriate to say that we made a tax agreement in 2012. It was a deal, no settlement. The Left voted in favour of exactly the things that were to be implemented, as we had agreed. The government wisely chose it was then along with Enhedslisten to avoid implementing what was called the posting tax. We thought that was a good idea, but that is to say, before it was introduced, the government chose not to do so. We did not call for a breach of a settlement or a breach of an agreement because there was an agreement, but the government was free to change it. Then I just think it is grotesque to witness what the tax minister says about us then trying to say that some of what was included in the agreement, which certainly did not come from the Left, namely indexing taxes, is bad, that it is devastating, that it costs border trade and that we would have liked to have taken that out. I guess there's nothing to say about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151939	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204151940	I do not recognize that this should give rise to a problem with regard to cross-border trade, as I have also explained. But then you can turn it around and say that it is not exactly because I find that the Left is waiting in line to give a cheerful thanks for the challenges that the current government has also helped to solve, the challenges that have been raised in the past and that a previous government has created, such as the fat tax, although I am convinced that the Left is happy that we do not have it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204152012	Thank you, Minister. We start with the rapporteur's series, and then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204152025	Thank you. I speak on behalf of our tax rapporteur, Astrid Krag. With motion for a resolution B 29, the Left and Conservatives obviously want to cut the bill for the tax reliefs that they have agreed with the government in the context of the tax reform in 2012. For with B 29, the Left and Conservatives will cancel the indexation of excise duties in 2015, which is one of the measures that finance the tax agreement. The money has been spent very sensibly, the Social Democrats seem to lighten the tax for people with ordinary wages, for a hand to single mothers and fathers and to give the pensioners who have at least a little more to do good with. Now the Left and the Conservatives will not help to pay for it is, frankly, something irresponsible. Instead, the Left and Conservatives want the money to be found on the 2015 Finance Act. The Socialists do not agree with that priority. With the Finance Act we want to strengthen the community with better treatment of people with chronic diseases, more educators in kindergartens and crèches and extra home help for our elderly. We do not want the Finance Act here at the eleventh hour to pay for tax cuts when, back in 2012, other funding was handed down. In relation to B 30, the Left and Conservatives would like the government to place a pool on the Finance Act for 2015 of 250 million. kr. to improve excise duties. And yes, we have many excise duties, most of which have a sensible health or environmental purpose. There have also been some excise duties, which might be seen to see whether they continue to serve their purpose. I'm not gonna rule that out. We have a strong focus on constantly making it easier to operate in Denmark, because it must be the case that companies must be able to concentrate on what they are best at, namely to create development and jobs. That is why we have improved business conditions with two major growth packages and a number of industry-specific growth plans. We have also consistently proposed simplifying a number of tax laws, and we have abolished more excise duties, for example. the soft drinks tax, the weight-based packaging tax and the fat tax that the Left has been defaming. We are constantly striving for a sensible balance between revenue for the Community and fairness in what excise duties and administrative burdens mean for businesses. However, we in the Socialists do not believe that this balance is best achieved by creating an earmarked pool on the Finance Act. We listen and we take companies seriously and we are happy to improve their conditions. At the same time, we insist on pursuing a responsible economic policy where money is not spent on casual tax cuts, but where we give priority to strengthening our community. The Socialists cannot therefore vote in favour of the two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204152352	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204152359	The first proposal I would like to comment on is B 29, which is of course about the fact that the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to submit proposals before the end of 2014 to cancel the planned indexation of excise duties. I think this is a rather funny proposal, because it has been put forward by the Left and Conservatives, in other words the very same parties that were included in the tax agreement in 2012, which introduced indexation. So if you thought it was such a bad idea to do this indexing, perhaps it would have been better not to do it from the start, rather than to propose to get rid of it now. The indexation of the charges concerned inter alia: chocolate, nuts, coffee, etc. Higher taxes give higher prices for the Danes, and higher prices for Danish goods give a greater incentive to go to the border and shop. So it increases the cross-border trade, and we in the Danish People's Party think this is quite bad. Instead, priority should be given to getting people to put their turnover in Danish shops in order to create Danish jobs. The proposal costs 180 million. The message from me is that the parties behind it should not have introduced indexation. Then they wouldn't have to use gunpowder to get rid of it again. That would have been better. B 30 is about the government's intention to set aside a pool of 250 million. kr. in the Finance Act, which aims to improve excise duties. The proposal argues that there is a considerable administrative burden associated with the high level of charges, particularly in the food and environmental fields, and that many companies spend a great deal of time on this in relation to the revenue consequences it will have for the state. I think it is quite obvious that there may be a number of charges which may seem quite inappropriate, in relation to the amount of time spent on them administratively and in relation to the revenue it provides. But I also think that this proposal is a very unconcerned proposal, as it is simply said that it is a pool that has been set aside for it. I think it might be a little nice if you were a little more targeted and said a little more specifically what it could be. It would also be a little easier for the Danish Parliament to orientate itself and say that this may seem inappropriate. The only way to put a pool of 250 million is to put a pool of 250 million. kr. It is not particularly specific; it is not known whether it is too much or too little in relation to the amount. The funding is again something where reference is made to the Finance Act, but, as I said in relation to the other proposals that we have discussed today, there is not, after all, a common financial agreement between the parties. The government has its game with its support parties, and the other parties, the bourgeois parties, each have their own financial laws. If we were to adopt this, we would have to sit down and try to find common funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204152657	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204152704	Thank you. I can only welcome the Danish People's Party's tax rapporteur's call for an overall bourgeois economic policy in blue camp. It would be nice to have that sketched out. I believe that the Minister of Taxation so badly hit the nails when the Minister of Taxation recently mentioned many of the taxes that this government has chosen to remove, cancel and the like. We chose to cancel an extension of the sugar levy; we chose to dismantle the fat tax; we got rid of the monster big truck tax. And there are a great many charges that we have been able to see, in cooperation with the civil parties, was not good for the business community. It was administratively expensive for business, which was too much of a socio-economic loss for business. This affects citizens and legal certainty is being trampled underfoot and so on. I could also add to that list section 33 A of the equation law, which was indeed a tax on globalisation and posting, also a very, very damaging tax, which we could then harm the business community. We listened to the business community. Much of the business community was opposed, and we listened to that. That's why we actually got rid of it. When you conduct fiscal policy and economic policy, which must be responsible, it is about the money having to fit; it is about stability, but also about the fact that if it is that you are making some changes, it must be thought through and it must be well-argued. That is how we can continue to make various sporadic tax proposals to facilitate here and there, but I believe that this requires thorough preparatory work, and it is about the money also having to take care of. I do not want to go into the individual parts of the proposals, B 29 and B 30, but simply say, as the tax minister also said, that we cannot support those resolutions. But does this mean that we are not interested in any of those taxes at all? No, certainly not. We're following developments. Is it the case that we can see that there are some taxes that it might be sensible to remove at a later stage, and if there is money for that, then we can consider it. At this stage, however, there is nothing that falls into the eye and that means that we should support B 29 and B 30. So let those be my words in this round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153003	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. She's not here. Well, then it must be sir. Frank Aaen, apparently speaking on behalf of both.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153021	I just want to say that both the SF and the Enhedslisten are against these B proposals and we will vote against them when they come to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153030	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153039	We can certainly support the motions for resolutions, which do not go as far as reducing excise duties in Denmark as we would have liked, but a little is also right. Ideally, excise duties on such consumer goods should actually be abolished. I say ideally, because we have not found funding for this ourselves, but we have found funding for reducing excise duties on all border trade sensitive products so that they can be brought down to German level. It's the Social Democrat, sir. Jesper Petersen, who has helped us find out how much it costs, in a question to the tax minister or the finance minister. It costs 4.1 billion. kr., and then all border trade sensitive goods will have excise duties corresponding to the German level of charges on border trade sensitive goods. Then we still have a challenge with VAT being lower in Germany, but at least we have control over the tax situation in relation to the border trade sensitive products. So we have that in our economic programme. We found the 4 billion. kr., it costs, and we've also found the 400 million. kr. as it costs to remove the indexation of excise duties, which was carried out with the latest tax reform with the support of the Left and Conservatives. I understand the argument put forward by the Left and Conservatives that they are now tabling resolutions on something else. I understand that in a tax reform agreement one might think that the positive aspects of such a tax reform agreement are so much greater than the negative ones, and then one says yes to the negative ones in order to get the positive ones in; and then when another majority comes, one hopes that one can get the negative ones out. So I don't want Left and Conservatives to hear an evil word for it. We can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153239	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153250	Today is also about us being parties that want to make business more competitive and ensure that there is growth and jobs in Denmark. And we then have a government that looks like it's still gone, unfortunately, so uninflamed that you hold onto higher taxes and taxes because for a short time it gives some money in the box, but that in turn helps to hamper the possibility of creating some jobs and some growth in Danish society. It is in this light that we have to look at these two motions for resolutions, both the proposal to stop indexation and the proposal for a tax reform pool. The Conservative People's Party has set aside 2.6 billion in its growth initiative. kr. to eliminate 28 specific excise duties. This is everything from some chocolate and almond taxes to some chewing gum taxes etc., but it helps to make it a little cheaper to be a Dane. We have Europe's highest consumer prices in Denmark, but if we remove the 28 excise duties that we are proposing, it will be cheaper to be a consumer and it will also mean less border trade. We believe that it is necessary to get to grips with the charges, because it is the screw without end that we continue to increase these charges, both in terms of indexation and in terms of not having any of the taxes that are totally inappropriate and unreasonable. If you have to look at the border trade, there are some magnetic products that we have addressed, partly in the soft drinks sector, partly in the beer sector, which have meant that more soft drinks are being sold in Denmark compared to in the German border trading shops. So it's helped. So we can see that it helps to reduce a tax. That is why we, the Conservatives, are also calling for a further 350 million to be added to the beer tax. kr., so you get sold beer in Denmark and not in Germany. It provides revenue in Denmark and employment in the Danish shops. So the two proposals from V and K, which we are discussing here today, are therefore a matter of helping consumers, so that we get lower consumption prices in Denmark, so that we get some growth and some jobs in Denmark, and then trade takes place in Denmark and not in Denmark, for example. Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153515	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153520	I would just like to ask whether the Conservative People's Party is aware that the profits, i.e. the profits of retail companies, are greater in Denmark than in other countries, and that those who, for example, are not. sell beer and other products in Germany, accept a lower profit, so sell them cheaper in German shops than they do in Denmark, and that may be a better explanation for the difference in prices in Germany and in Denmark than with the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153555	Thank you. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153557	There are a lot of discussions about whether the profit margin is greater in Danish stores than in German stores, and there are many different opinions about this that are drawn in both one direction and the other. I can only say that the result, for my part, is that I would like to have as much competition as possible, because it brings down prices and it also brings down profit margins. One of the elements is that if you lower some excise duties or remove them completely, then everything else will be cheaper to buy in Denmark compared to, for example. to buy them in Germany. It is, of course, a general schematic comparison: if you remove an excise duty on a product in Denmark, then everything else will be equally cheaper to buy there. Then, of course, it is also our job to push through a competition so that profit margins come down so that it becomes cheaper to be a consumer in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153643	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153645	I understood the answer in such a way that, in the Conservatives and for that matter in the Left, it is not clear whether that difference means a difference in profit margins or whether it is differences in taxes and VAT. I find that interesting when such a proposal as we have here today has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153708	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153709	Yes, it is clear: When you put down a tax, stop indexing or remove it completely, the price will be lower in Denmark. It makes everything else equal that you do not buy corresponding quantities in other countries if you have it put down sufficiently. We have seen empirical evidence of this with regard to the soda-water tax, which we had removed large parts of the tax and so in the long term completely and this has meant that more soft drinks are being sold in Denmark. We can see that sales are increasing, and everything else equal will then be sold in Danish stores, and it is Danish employees who sell them. As far as profit margins and competition are concerned, there are different approaches to getting more competition, and there are very, very different opinions about how much profit there is in Denmark compared to in other countries, and this requires great analysis. I have some opinions on that myself, because I have worked a lot on it, but that requires some longer discussions. Most importantly, it means lowering taxes and taxes, lowering prices for consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153807	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204153817	Thank you for the debate. Now the tax minister started a mini-Finance bill debate like this. Of course we have ample opportunity to do so later, but I think that the introduction of the tax minister deserves a number of considerations on the way. First, as I also tried to address my question to the Minister for Finance, there is the claim that the promise that the Left is making on health is only one year old. It is notoriously nonsense, and I do not understand why the government can make itself travel with the same claim when it is notoriously known that it is a falsum. The government speaks a lot about being oh so responsible and that everything is simply under control. I just think, when we listen to that music, that it should also be mentioned for the sake of good order that the government has to postpone parts of its own legislative programme, the so-called wholesale model on the electricity market, because in isolation it will increase the deficit by one billion kroner in the financial year 2015. And in order not to get into carambola with budget law and other things, the government pushes it to 2016. So much for managing your finances. You cannot implement the legislation you had otherwise promised, but you have to postpone it. We can take the proposal to grant a full national pension to refugees. There the government has found funding of 7, 8, 12, 15 million. kr. in the first years, but then there is a permanent financing requirement of 90 million. kr., and the government has chosen not to finance that. One can take the discussion about why the government has not chosen to make the full recovery of the amount of development aid that needs to be used for asylum seekers, but it has also skilfully chosen to push for this after the summer break. So much for the responsibility of the government's economic policy, just for the record. If we on the Left, together with Conservatives, believe that we need to do something about excise duties and excise duties, then there are several reasons for this. The Minister for Taxation and, in particular, the Socialist rapporteur, said that V and K ran from the bill with the tax agreement in 2012. Well, I have to say that it is, of course, quite an announcement when, as rapporteur, you are not even present in the Chamber and let someone else read your speech, so to make such a violent accusation, because the reality is that a tax agreement was made in 2012, and that is where we voted for exactly the things we have agreed, without exception. The government has then become wiser in a number of areas... we have urged it to do so and have chosen to cancel parts of the 2012 tax agreement and believe me: there is no such thing as an acid on the part of the Left that the government abolished the proposal to introduce a posting tax. Anything to praise the government for coming to terms with it. The fact that the government dropped its own planned sugar levy was also quite reasonable and that the government failed to double the fat tax on which it was elected was also quite reasonable. But when the government does that, it is such timely care: you have listened and such. And when the rest of us do, we'll run off the tab. So there must be limits to the hypocrisy of the argument in here. We're not running from a bill. The proposal to index excise duties was one of the elements that we accepted. The 2012 Tax Agreement would, of course, have looked very different if it had only been the Left and Conservatives who had decided. That is why we had to include proposals that we were not enthusiastic about, and if you read the agreement, you will also note that we write exactly in relation to indexing that we are concerned about border trade. That's one part of it. The second part is that it also gives companies trouble when taxes are changed. It may well be that the Minister of Taxation believes that it is not so much a hassle, as long as you know, but that packaging and prices and everything else must be changed anyway, and that is why we think it would be appropriate to leave companies out of this mess. And therefore, the proposal not to introduce an indexation of taxes in 2015. The second proposal, which deals with a pool for improving excise duties, is based on the fact that we have myriads of excise duties in Denmark, as some have said. If I don't remember quite wrong, then the then tax minister said it's so a 4-5 pieces since after the government's first Finance Act that the government would make a clean-up of excise duties. A committee would be set up and an analysis would be carried out to see if it would still have been possible to earn a service after the significant tax increases which the government's first Finance Act included. It was then cancelled, so there has not really been a service inspection. So much for that. But we must note that we have a large number of excise duties, which have many, many years on the back. The tax minister says, "Yeah, but things are connected, and you can't just do it like that." But this is something I've been working on a lot, and one of my favorite fees, and I think people would collapse into laughter cramps if they found that we have one of those in Denmark, if there was a lot of attention on that • tea tax. It is a levy which, in gross terms, amounts to 8 million. kr. a year, which is perhaps a 5-6 million by standard method of calculation. kr. Imagine an administrative device stacked on its feet to bring something similar to 5 million. kr. That is the minimum excise duty. This means that there are companies that have to make quarterly statements on how much tea has been purchased and how much has been sold; what has been imported and what has gone out of the warehouse. And then we have to report very modest amounts per year. company. That doesn't make much sense. Now, of course, I know that 5 million. kr. is equivalent to the amount that the government will now charge in the parking charge to visit the sites of nature in Denmark, but the government does not intend to use them to abolish the tea tax. But when you propose to abolish the tea tax, because it must be a handful when we do the math, then the tax minister comes up with some concerns: yes, but if you remove the tax on tea, all the coffee drinkers will, after all, unbridledly begin to drink tea, and that will give rise to unequal competition between these products, and that will be described as illegal state aid under EU rules. Okay, I didn't just see that coming, and I thought there must be a lot of other countries struggling with that problem. No other countries in the European Union then have a tea tax, but more have a coffee tax. But, of course, you can be so enlightened. One of the predecessors of the tax minister promised that the matter would be brought before the Commission, and I hope that is the case, because that seems quite horrible. There is every reason why we should clean up a number of excise duties. Tea tax is a good example. I can also mention the nut levy as an example: a levy which has, I do not know how many different rates, depending on whether it is salted nuts, roasted nuts in shell or without shell, or whether they are dried or what else you can come up with. In fact, I believe that the three categories which make up the minimum amount of money are as low as 70 000 kroner. in tax. Well, there must be meaning to the madness. So in order to relieve the companies of some trouble, to take the pressure of some goods that may be border trade sensitive, and by the way just to get some common sense into Danish tax policy, it is that we have proposed that a pool of 250 million be set aside. kr. to reduce excise duties. I am glad that there was support for some parties; unfortunately that was not enough for a majority, but I hope that the debate will help to show that there is a continuing need. And there I would say, from an optimistic point of view, that there were also parties that said that it might well be that we sometimes have to look at it a little. And I hope that by the end of the year I can hit more parties and have them say that we have to clean up and not levy taxes on such small amounts as some of the examples we see. Let us drop some bureaucracy and some trouble and thus make things a little cheaper for the Danes and a little less troublesome. I think there might be a lot of common sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204154804	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204154821	The debate is open. It's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204154845	With the motion for a resolution we are now debating, B 31, the authors of the motion for a resolution propose to ensure full cost compensation for expenses incurred by companies and foundations which are successful in complaints against SKAT in the administrative complaint system. The reason for the proposal is that it should not be a matter of cost to be justified in relation to the authorities. This motion for a resolution is essentially a re-submission of motion for a resolution B 17 from the 2013-14 parliamentary assembly, which was discussed in the Danish Parliament on 26 November 2013. So if there are passages in my speech that may seem familiar, that is the explanation for it. In 2009, the rules on cost compensation for companies and foundations were abolished by the former VK government with the support of the Danish People's Party. This was done with a view to finding funding for the spring package 2.0, and it helped to ensure that the tax relief demanded by the business community could be implemented. In addition, in the context of the abolition of the cost compensation for companies and foundations, the rules were adjusted in such a way that companies and self-employed persons were deducted from the costs of expert assistance in the course of proceedings by SKAT. In addition, the companies were granted the right to deduct for the same type of expenses at the appeal body. The proposal for the abolition of cost compensation was included in the Tax Commission's report •Lavere tax on work, which was the basis for spring package 2.0, and the report did not consider that legal concerns were attached to the abolition of cost compensation for companies and foundations. In particular, the Tax Commission stressed that companies and foundations were assisted by professional advisers in the preparation of the tax return. In addition, the Commission considered that the reason for a complaint was often that a company wanted to clarify the legal position in a given area. Nor do figures from the Tax Appeal Board appear to be able to provide a basis for concluding that fewer companies and foundations complain after the cost compensation to companies and foundations was abolished in 2009. Thus, the most recent figures show that the number of companies complaining is at the same level as in 2006. If you agree to the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution and completely roll back the rules, this will mean that companies and foundations will be able to obtain cost compensation for expert assistance costs, etc. before the appeal body and before the courts. The possibility of deduction then disappears in proportion to the corresponding costs of the appeal body and the courts. Companies and foundations will instead be able to obtain only cost compensation for costs of expert assistance, etc. in cases of appeal before the courts. With such a roll-back of the regulatory framework to what was applicable before the 2009 amendment, it is estimated that the State's cost of the compensation scheme will increase by 45 million. kr. The government will, of course, follow developments in this area, but at the same time the government must show a high degree of financial responsibility. There is a need to prioritize government expenditure, and the government therefore considers that the time has not come to change the rules. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155212	Thank you, Minister. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155229	Thank you. Here too, I am speaking on behalf of our tax rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag. In 2009, the Left and the Conservatives abolished with the support of the Danish People's Party cost compensation for companies and foundations in tax cases. The money has been spent by the parties for a long time in connection with the spring package 2.0 to pay for tax cuts to the business community. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen said then, in April 2009: "Danish business has advocated lower marginal taxes. That is what we want, but business must also help to pay the bill. ▪ That's why you're left with a feeling that the Left and their friends are having a little trouble paying when the bill comes. Because with the resolution we are now debating, the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberals want to restore cost compensation to companies and foundations in tax matters and, in other words, to withdraw the tax relief they have already granted. The budget bill for 2015 will then be clear. The authors of the proposal state that it will strengthen legal certainty. That was not the concern of the then tax minister, Mr. Kristian Jensen when he abolished the allowance. On 23 May 2009, he said to Jyllands-Posten, and I quote: "No, I do not believe that you cut the legal basis." The concern seems to be unfounded. Firstly, as from June 2009, the companies have instead been able to deduct their costs of expert assistance, including legal advice. At the same time, the companies and the independent operators deduct the costs of expert assistance in dealing with the case at first instance and thus not only in appeal proceedings. Secondly, the latest figures from the Tax Appeals Board show that the number of companies complaining is at the same level as in 2006. Fortunately, the situation has not changed, even though the rules have been changed, and that is very good. The legal certainty of citizens, companies and foundations is important for the government, so of course we must keep an eye on whether developments are going the wrong way. However, this does not seem to be the case today, and therefore, at a time when the economy is scarce, we are not giving priority to changing the rules. With the 2015 Finance Act, we want to strengthen the community. Therefore, we have prioritised better treatment of people with chronic diseases, more educators in kindergartens and nurseries and extra home help for our elderly. The Socialists cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155524	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155532	This proposal is about ensuring full cost reimbursement of expenses for companies and foundations which are successful in cases against SKAT in the administrative complaint system. Over the last few years there has been a lot of storm around SKAT and a lot of criticism of SKAT, which has also shown that there has been a need to create better legal certainty, both for citizens and also for companies that this proposal deals with. There has been a real crisis of confidence around SKAT, which is why I also think it is important that we focus on legal certainty so that we get confidence back. After all, it is important that companies have a good opportunity to take up the fight against the state if they feel they have received unfair treatment, and this is where the cost compensation comes in. We in the Danish People's Party think it is quite natural that you get a cost compensation if you feel that you win the case, so that it is not the economic things that make you discouraged from taking a case. If, as a company, you can see from the outset that the financial gain by conducting the case of the error that SKAT, for example, is making in the past. I think there are some who may not be able to take the case. I really think that is a pity because they will not be able to rectify the mistake that may have been made. So we think it is quite natural that the cost compensation should be introduced again, but we can also see from the debate that has been going on so far that the governing parties, and also the SF and Enhedslisten, I would guess, do not support it. So this must then be up to a potential new bourgeois majority, if it comes after an election, to have it reinstated here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155718	Thank you to the Danish People's Party. There is a brief comment from Mr. Frank Aaen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155723	These are typically professional people who have their own legal departments and tax departments and all sorts of things to conduct their affairs. Does the Danish People's Party not think it would be more interesting to focus attention on cash benefit recipients and unemployed people and others who are quickly deprived of their benefits but who do not have any cost compensation if they wish to raise a complaint? Wasn't it much more important to look at this issue than this, where the companies with their big departments are taking care of this kind of question?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155807	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155809	I do not entirely agree with the premise for the question, because it is not necessarily just large multinational companies that have huge tax departments and afford expensive tax lawyers and accountants. This might as well be a little company. It might as well be the car dealer, or it could be the carpenter company with two employees. There is no reason why it should necessarily be large companies. And small companies do not have the unbridled financial resources to run such a case. For me, legal certainty applies to both companies and citizens. Both are equally important. So I agree that there might well be a need to look at legal certainty for citizens as well. Now this proposal, which I myself am not a co-sponsor, is about the ability of companies to have proper legal certainty. I think it is quite reasonable that we should also ensure that they get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155852	Thank you, sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155853	So can we count on the Danish People's Party to vote in favour when, at some point after an election, if it comes soon, it will probably make a proposal that ordinary citizens, cash benefit recipients, unemployed people and others who follow the ill-treatment in the system should of course have the opportunity to receive compensation if they raise a case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155917	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155918	Now, of course, this proposal is about the ability of companies to obtain cost compensation, and I have not read out what it wants from, among other things. the economic consequences and other things for the matters which Mr. Frank Aaen mentions. But if there is a proposal, we will, of course, read it out and take a position on it. In general, however, we are quite positive about the fact that the Danes and companies must have a very good legal certainty when they take up the fight against the public sector. That is why we are actually quite positive about the idea of looking at these things, but as a tax rapporteur I am not an expert on what that would mean both in terms of revenue and in terms of legal certainty. But let's take a look.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155954	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq is the next rapporteur, and that is for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204155959	Thank you. This happened in the days of 2009, when the rules on cost compensation for companies and funds were abolished. It was the VKO that abolished the compensation to scrape money together for the tax cuts in the spring package 2.0. Those were good tax concessions, so there is no criticism for it, but it is just important to bear in mind that legal certainty is being trampled underfoot. I would like to say a few words about the fact that legal certainty has suffered as a result of the abolition of the cost compensation for companies and foundations, so that companies and self-employed persons were deducted from the costs of expert assistance in the course of the proceedings before SKAT. In addition, it should be added that the Tax Commission's report on lower labour tax, which was part of the basis for the spring package and tax relief back in 2009, did not find any legal concerns regarding the abolition of cost compensation for companies and foundations. The main emphasis of the Tax Commission was that companies and foundations were assisted by professional advisers in the preparation of the tax return. If you look at figures from the Tax Appeals Board, there seems to be no basis for postulating that fewer companies and funds complain, as the latest figures show that the number of complaints is at the same level in 2006 as in 2009. That is why, overall, it can be said that in the ideal world, if there was money for it, I think it would be an excellent idea to reinstate the cost compensation, but it is always a priority task, and in that light, and when I also think that I do not think it has had any significant negative effect on legal certainty, I must say that the Radical Left cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160237	There is a brief comment from Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160242	When Mr. Nadeem Farooq's political leader, who is now Minister for Home Affairs and Economics, took up his duties as Minister for Taxation. I know that it was for a rather short period of time that the password for him was legal certainty. It was a matter of priority, and something had to be done about it. The then tax minister was also asked about the proposal for full cost compensation and, like the radical rapporteur, the then tax minister actually expressed himself in favour of the proposal but did not have equal money for it. Now there has been a process that has been a budget debate and there is an agreement, and my question is this: if both the radical rapporteur and the current political leader of the Radical Left have in principle expressed a favourable opinion on this and said that it would be an excellent proposal, why is it that it has been chosen not to give priority to it anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160342	I choose to see it as a great credit to the Radicals that we think that, in an ideal situation, it would actually be good to have that cost compensation, but at the same time a criticism that we are not so good at finding the money to restore the cost compensation, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160406	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160408	I understand that, in principle, the Radical Left is in favour of full cost compensation being reinstated, but that this is only a matter of economic priority. However, in the basic substance, the Radical Left considers that it is reasonable, on the basis of legal certainty, to reinstate full cost recovery. That is the way I understand the rapporteur, and I am delighted because, as I would have said, it is only a priority struggle to find financial resources for it, more than it is a question of whether it is fair or not, because it seems that we are looking at it equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160443	There is no doubt that, for the Radical Left, legal certainty means incredibly much legal certainty for companies, legal certainty for citizens, legal certainty for vulnerable, legal certainty at all. There is no doubt that this is also, of course, about revenue, it is about money, and that is the main reason why we have not been able to restore the cost compensation. However, I would also like to say that if we had been able to point out significant legal concerns or challenges in the wake of the abolition of the cost compensation, we would probably have given it a higher priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160527	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur present from the SF there is no one? It's sir. Frank Aaen, representing two parties today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160540	Yeah, I'll say both for SF and for Enhedslisten that we're against this B proposal. One can be a little puzzled sometimes when parties, which said a short time ago that this was a stupid arrangement, suddenly propose to reinstate it. I shall not be able to say why V and K at the time thought it was a bad arrangement with this cost compensation, but I am quite sure that it was in the hands of the then government that this meant that it was a kind of money machine for lawyers. I would say that, together with doctors, lawyers may be some of the best to make sure that the money machine rolls, and it seemed to the VK at the time that we had to put a brake on it, so that the state's expenditure did not just explode for the benefit of individual business groups. We don't even think it's a good idea to just reinstate that money machine. Finally, should it be that there was money to provide better legal protection for people, we think that this should apply to the benefit recipients, the unemployed and others who are caught up in the social system, because they do not have any help. Well, they can even win a case, and they won't even get the money back, even if they won the case. And at least they will not receive compensation for the legal aid they may have obtained along the way. Then bring it to me, Left and Conservative. Make the suggestion that people who get caught up in the social system should be compensated, that they should be sure that they get their legal costs covered when they have a case and they win it. That is not how it should be today, and we will support it at any time. But do you not think that companies with their legal departments, which they already have, will manage to assess whether it is a good idea to raise a case and then take the cost if they lose it and take the prize if they win it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160805	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, who also covered the SF. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204160816	We are co-sponsors of this resolution because we support it. And we are doing so because we think it is absolutely right in principle that if the SKAT leads cases against citizens as well as companies and the SKAT loses those cases, then SKAT should cover the costs that citizens and companies have incurred in being accused by SKAT of having committed something that was wrong. Today there is cost compensation for citizens, but not for companies, and we think that there should be. And it is not only for the sake of citizens and companies themselves, i.e. those who are in the situation; it is also for the sake of all legal certainty in Denmark, and that we will make it clear if it is that SKAT has not properly understood the law. For one can imagine a case in which a company of SKAT is told that the company has to pay 50,000 DKK. more than the company actually intended to pay. The company is then in a position that if the company is to lead the case, it will cost perhaps DKK 200,000. The company has no interest in leading the case because the prize is only DKK 50,000, while the cost is DKK 200,000, even if it doesn't lead to SKAT getting a nose from the legal system because SKAT has made a wrong claim to the company. Thus SKAT continues a practice against citizens and companies that is wrong, because nobody ever has an interest in conducting the case because the benefit of conducting the case is less than the cost. And that is a problem, not only for the company in question, but for the whole country and for anyone who can find himself in a similar situation later on. I would just like to say that, in the last resolution, I said to the Left and Conservatives that I understand this about negotiating with a government on tax reform. There are a lot of things you like about the reform, there are a few things you don't like, but you swallow that as a cost to get all the good. And once you have implemented it, you maintain that you are still opposed to it there and you maintain the right to table resolutions. I can understand that. This case is an example of something else. It is an example of a different policy when you are in government than when you are in opposition. After all, the removal of the cost compensation for companies is something that the VK government itself carried out with the majority it had with the Danish People's Party back in 2009. Now you come out and are no longer in government, and then you want something completely different. It is at the end of some other cases where it was the same relationship. A fat tax, which was so regrettable, was introduced as soon as opposition was brought; an energy reform, an energy agreement with a lot of increases in energy taxes, which was suddenly claimed to be opposed when one came into opposition. I do not understand that, in fact I do not think that is a real policy, that is to say that of pursuing two different kinds of policy, depending on whether you are in government or in opposition. I think that's dishonest. But when you come on better thoughts, we back up, of course. But I think we should refrain from such things. It is the same thing that the Social Democrats and the SF also stand for when, while in opposition, they are barring with a Fair Solution that spends billions and billions on things that you saw when you come into government, admit that you didn't have the money for and then you don't pursue that policy anymore. There, then, those government-led and so-called responsible parties have a very irresponsible relationship with politics in Denmark, because they tell the voters that they can do a lot when they are in opposition and then do not do it at all when they are in government. Or vice versa: they do things when they are in government and claim they are against it when they are in opposition. I do not think that is a way of conducting politics that is in order. However, we support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204161251	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204161300	We must recognise that when the VK government, together with the Danish People's Party, changed the rules in 2009 and removed the full cost recovery, it was a mistake. It was a mistake for reasons of principle and legal certainty. Because the situation is now that a small craftsman, who finds himself having a big case with the tax administration, must himself bear the costs of the case, but even if they win the case and SKAT has wrongly brought the case, they must pay the costs. It is, of course, unreasonable, and it also makes it possible to have some doubts about legal certainty as to whether or not to raise the matter. So it was a mistake to implement the initiative in 2009. Now we will put it right again if, hopefully, a bourgeois government comes along, so that legal certainty and the prospect that one can, of course, enter into a matter with the tax administration as a superpower and as a state power and then get full cost recovery. That is why we insist that this is a necessary proposal to correct the problems and imbalances that exist in the system today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204161419	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204161426	A number of the proposals we have discussed today have given rise to such an historic debate on what it was like. And I think it might actually be appropriate to go back and ask: what was it like? For it was the case that before the VK government came into force in 2001, there was no full cost compensation. It was the VK government that introduced the full cost compensation for citizens and companies in complaint cases because we did not want the situation that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen very well described: that as a tax payer, whether as a person or as a company, no action was brought for fear that the costs of winning the case were not commensurate with the dispute with the tax authorities, i.e. because the cover received from their costs was too small. So from a fundamental point of view of legal certainty, it was considered that it would not be likely to be related to losses to be justified. Therefore, the VK government introduced the full cost compensation. This is somewhat forgotten in today's debate, where only the limitation that came in 2009 has been the focal point. However, the reality is that the full cost recovery was something that the VK Government introduced at its accession. It's just to get it right. It is, of course, a pity that the Social Democrats are not putting forward with their rapporteur, because there were many things that could be discussed on this issue too, but let it be. One can only say that the party does not want to prioritise it. This is also true in relation to what the Radical Left said about what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior said when he was Minister for Taxation, namely that he was able to see in such a way the promotion of legal certainty in ensuring full cost compensation for companies and foundations that it is obviously not something that has been prioritised by the Radical Left in the government's financial law or in the government's financial law agreement. However, as I have done on other occasions in today's debates, I would like to welcome the basically positive message from the Radical Left, which I hope will then be a little more firm at a later stage, so that it is not just a good statement of intent but also an action behind the words. In relation to the second part of it, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen talked about when, in addition to talking about the principle that it is reasonable that citizens and companies do not risk loss by winning a case, he criticized the fact that the Left and Conservatives, together with the Danish People's Party, made this change in 2009, I would say that we would like to admit that it was a mistake, but the worst thing about making a mistake is that it is stubborn to stick to it. If you've made a mistake, you have to make it right. I think that is fair and quite straightforward on the road. Perhaps there is also a part of the storywriting which has not been clarified today and which I think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is not familiar with at all. 'Cause I think the last bill was almost like the then tax minister, sir. Peter Christensen, sent in consultation as tax minister, was in fact a proposal not for the full implementation of the cost compensation to companies and foundations in tax matters, but for a number of clear improvements compared to what had been made in 2009. So already, while the VK had the power of government, there were initiatives to correct the error that was made in 2009. For the comparison of changing policies is irresponsible and something like that, i.e. to compare what we have done in the Left with what the governing parties have done, I have to say that I really do not want that. The government parties came up with a Fatamorgana, a catalogue that could solve all the country's problems in 12 minutes, and then there was milk and honey; there was no limit to how much money should be poured out over the municipalities. They have then not stopped spending, but a minus growth in their welfare expenditure, and this is slightly in stark contrast to, it was 1.4%. in growth, they should have had? There I have to say that we in the Left made a proposal and adopted a proposal which was a saving which we then say was not the wisest saving we came up with in our time. So we're gonna make that right with full funding in our financial law game. I mean, if we didn't want to correct the mistake, it would be more beneficial to the Treasury and wouldn't leave a hole. After all, it is in stark contrast to the comparison made by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen came with us. However, to conclude, I would like to say that it is always good to have a discussion on legal certainty. After all, there has been a great deal of reason for discussing this in the area of taxation, where we have seen a number of, to say the least, very unfortunate cases. It is perhaps a completely different solution that is relevant in this context, but it must be made clear not only to citizens but also to the craftsman, who may have a dispute with the tax authorities, that it is therefore only reasonable that if he stands by his right and takes a case and is right, it should not be associated with costs. That is why, of course, we need to restore the cost compensation to companies and foundations if they are right in a case against the tax authorities. We must then note that there is no majority in the Folketing at the moment, but we must then see if that can be achieved at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204162101	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141204162114	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 5 December 2014, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
