ParlaMint-DK_20141030100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Climate, Energy and Building (Rasmus Helveg Petersen): Bill no. L 11 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on CO 2 421/2014 of 16 April 2014 etc.)) Bill No. L 48 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Electricity, the Act on Natural Gas Supply, the Law on Subsidies for the Promotion of Renewable Energy in Business Production Processes, the Biofuel Act and the Law on the Promotion of Savings in Energy Consumption. for energy consumers with distribution meters, amendment of complaint rules, etc.) and Bill No. L 49 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Security, etc.) for offshore installations for the exploration, production and transport of hydrocarbons, the Law on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Environmental Damage Act. Tax Minister (Benny Engelbrecht): Bill No. L 40 (Proposal for a Law amending the Fund Tax Act, the Tax Tax Act, the Exchange Profit Act, the Corporation Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. Bill No. L 41 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations, the fund tax law, the law on the recovery of public debt, the law on an income register and various other laws. Bill No. L 42 (Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Administration Act, the Collection Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 43 (Proposal for a Law amending the VAT Act, the Registration Tax Act, the Fuel Consumption Tax Act and the Weight Tax Act for Motor Vehicles, etc.) Minister for Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill No. L 44 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish citizenship. Bill No. L 45 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 46 (Proposal for a Law on the Danish Green Investment Fund). Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 47 (Proposal for a law amending the law on cooperative housing associations and other housing communities. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141030100139	The debate is open. Mrs Sophie Løh as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030100202	We need to be better and faster in providing people with drug abuse with effective and effective drug abuse treatment. In short, this was probably the ambition when the Left, together with the government and the other gaming parties, agreed to improve the efforts of people with drug abuse. The bill here is a follow-up to the 2013 Rate Pool Party agreement, which specifically proposes that persons wishing to enter drug abuse treatment, regardless of whether it is justified medically, socially or both, are entitled to a medical interview at the latest before initiating drug abuse treatment. In addition, the draft law proposes to introduce a right for persons wishing to receive medical treatment for drug use to initiate treatment within 14 days after the person has contacted the municipality of residence. Finally, there is a proposal to increase freedom of choice in this area, so that there will also be better opportunities for people to choose between being treated in the public sector or in a private treatment offer. In relation to the first part, it should of course be mentioned that the original political agreement agreed to introduce a right to a medical interview within 3 days of a person turning to the municipality with a wish to go into drug abuse treatment. So there is this divergence between the political agreement on at least three days and the draft law on the 14 days. Once this has been changed, it must also be seen in the light of the fact that, with our wage-pool agreement, we had set aside 6 million. kr. Every year to introduce it here quite overall. But it can be said that the calculator over in the Ministry of Health did not really fit with the calculator that applies outside the National Association of Municipalities. In any case, there was a huge disagreement as to what it would cost to introduce these new rights. They had estimated that it would amount to around 26 million. kr. annual. Of course, that is something you can stand up for today and criticise and say that things do not fit together and that is not good enough and that is not good enough. We take responsibility for the political agreement we have made. We also take responsibility for the fact that the money was not sufficient in relation to what was the ambition behind the political agreement, which is why it can be said that this is, of course, something that we must return to in relation to the level of ambition surrounding this. However, I do not think it should be a shadow of any significant improvement in this area as a whole. Then I would like to make a few comments in relation to the answers received. I would say that we entirely agree with what the Gadejuristen is introducing in their hearing response, where they propose that public institutions should also provide information on waiting times and therefore also waiting lists. Firstly, if we have an ambition to introduce more free elections, which we so much welcome from the Left, then it must also be transparent for the individual citizen, and secondly, with a central point, namely that free elections also say something about what they are elected for and what they are choosing from. It can also contribute to the development and knowledge of practices and processes in this area. There I read with great interest the comments from the Ministry of Health and Prevention, where it was written that it would be extremely administratively burdensome and resource-intensive • I think it was • if the treatment centers were to provide information about these things. I have to say that this sounds to me a little bit exaggerated. With this bill, it is already being proposed that a number of things should be recorded, so I do not think it can be said with the same argument that it is quite extremely burdensome if we are also going to talk about how things are going with waiting times in this area. So time-consuming I find it hard to see that it will be getting this into the drug database as well. Finally, it must also be said that the government, which, in toast speeches and on other good occasions, prides itself on the need for greater transparency and openness in health care, should be the first to be the banner leader in this field too, by saying that then, of course, we must also provide information on those things. Then there is the whole question of redress, which has also been highlighted by several consultation parties. Of course, we respect the fact that there is currently an evaluation of the patient complaint system, but on the Left side we would like to send the signal that we fully agree with the consultation parties who argue that in this area too there should be a right of appeal in relation to municipal decisions on drug abuse treatment under the Health Act. It could also be extended, because the problem does not only apply to the whole area of drug abuse, and at the same time the government could also be encouraged to look at the possibility of redress in relation to alcohol treatment, where people who have alcohol abuse are not currently able to complain to the Patient Complaints Board about the municipalities' decision on treatment, nor can they complain about the decision to other authorities. They can only complain about the general level of service of the municipality. So we think that it is two elements that need to be included when the evaluation of the patient complaint system is available. All in all, we can therefore support the proposal, which we have helped to agree on through the rate pool. We believe that it is some legislative changes that show a very important and good strengthening of the citizens' right to free choice, and, moreover, it is also an improvement in the right to be able to take drugs quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030100745	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030100753	Thank you very much. Of course, the treatment of drug addicts is of concern to us politicians, because we know that being a drug addict, relatives of a drug addict or part of the environment in relation to a drug abuse is very burdensome. It is therefore very gratifying that seven out of eight parties have agreed to make some improvements for those drug addicts who themselves come and say that they want to be treated. I would just like to say that just to outline the scope of those who had to hear the debate here today that the figures from 2009 show that there were about 33,000 drug addicts in Denmark. Other figures from 2009 show that there were 210 drug-related deaths, while the number of drug addicts treated in 2010 was over 14,000. In the discussions we had last year on the rate pool agreement, we said that we would do this better. We wanted to ensure that we had a holistic and better combined treatment, both in relation to social and medical treatment for drug use, and therefore it is very good that in this draft law there are three points which all three point in that direction. It must be the case that for a drug addict who himself says that he is actually ready for treatment, there must be an opportunity to come to a medical interview, regardless of whether it is the social treatment of drug abuse or the medical treatment of drug abuse that he is going through. And that treatment must be increased and offered within 14 days after the addict has approached his home community. That is not to say that it cannot be started earlier. The municipalities, which have a great many drug addicts, also have the skills and a large setup, and I think it would be desirable for both the medical consultation and the treatment itself to be started earlier if it is possible for it to be done in the municipalities. The doctor's interview should also aim to make a comprehensive assessment of the drug addict, and I mention here just a few of the points that I think are very fine in terms of what it is, such a medical interview should contain: identifying and addressing any acute treatment-related issues; confirming the patient's information on abuse problems; identifying abuse-related complications; identifying other somatic, i.e. physical, illness, psychological or social issues; drawing up a treatment plan covering a comprehensive situation description, while also offering a blood-testing screening in relation to hepatitis and HIV. It's really, really good. The second point I have just mentioned is that the abuse procedure must be initiated within 14 days of contacting the municipality, and the place of treatment can be either under the auspices of the municipality itself or under the auspices of another municipality, or it may be a private place of treatment approved by the municipality. The third and final point I would like to mention is that the draft law also provides for municipalities to cover transport costs to and from the place of treatment. Because we know that the abusers here may find it very difficult to find the economy to move from one place to another to receive the treatment. This is a good bill. As my colleague from the Left, Mrs Sophie Løhde, said, a change has been made in relation to when the medical consultation should take place, and Mrs Sophie Løhde has given the full reasons why it has had to be changed, so I will not comment on that further. However, I think it makes sense for us to have an evaluation of the legislative proposal, and I think we should do so in committee towards the third reading. I can say to Mrs Sophie Løhde when it comes to the criticism raised by the Gadejurist in relation to registration, and also in relation to the public treatment centres, that I, as the Socialist rapporteur, actually think this is right from the point of view of the Gadejurist, and I think that we should also work to build into this legal complex. The Social Democrats support this bill. Let us hope that it will be of great joy and benefit to the drug addicts, the relatives, society and the caregivers out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101238	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101245	Thank you. After all, we can agree that this is a very important area and that it is important that abusers receive help quickly. What is also important to say is that this is, after all, an expiry of the resolution tabled in 2012 by Kiær Benedikt and Mr. Behnke Behnke. And there was agreement at that time; with the support of all parties, except the Left, a joint report was made that it should be three days. We can also see that there are three days in the legislative catalogue and that as late as 7 October the rapporteur referred to the three days as the limit for when to have a conversation. So I would just like to ask: what has changed since October 7th?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101328	It is quite correct, as the rapporteur says, that this has been changed very late in the day, and it has been changed after the hearings have come in where several of the parties, both the trade unions, the management parties and the KL, have said that this will cost much more money than what we seven parties had agreed on. It has also been argued as an argument that the small municipalities in particular will find it very difficult to have the skills, the economy and the organisation to meet a three-day deadline. That is why the Minister for Health has also circulated a letter to all seven parties to the agreement so that we could nod that this is a consequence of the fact that we have not put any more money into the scheme. And it's been nodded to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101416	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101420	But that doesn't change the fact that it seems strange to make a joint report and say that the Folketing agrees that it should be the 3 days, and then suddenly it will be 14 days. And all the other things being equal, I think that more people would have expected nothing else to be called for a debate and that the draft law had been linked to the resolution that was tabled at the time. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur would be willing to re-examine the matter in committee so that we can find out whether it is possible to have it done, let us call it a differentiated deadline, so that for some of those who are most severely affected, a 3-day period can be set. Because what is the whole challenge is that 14 days is too long to reach that addict.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101519	I would like to agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to have an opportunity to speak with a doctor more quickly. After all, this bill brings a huge improvement on that point, although it is not 3 days, but 14 days. However, with regard to the position of the Socialists, I would like to see what I also said in my presentation that it will be shorter than 14 days. 14 days is the maximum time, and I hope, of course, that we will be able to discuss it, but also that the large municipalities, i.e. those with the muscles, will practice a shorter period than the 14 days. But I must send it to all parties, including the Conservative People's Party, the Minister of Health, and we have had the opportunity to say that we are not in favour of it. If that had been the case, I think that the Minister would have called the parties for a debate if that had been the case. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101625	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101629	Thank you. The rapporteur is incredibly enthusiastic and says that this is really, really good. I would say that is an improvement. That is quite right. But the rapporteur himself is a nurse, and I would like to ask a question. Let us say that a drug addict is in a situation where he needs help and actually feels motivated to call the doctor to say: Now I am actually motivated. Will the rapporteur take such a completely professional view of whether 14 days is enough to maintain that motivation as a drug addict, in other words one of the most vulnerable groups in Denmark? Is 14 days enough to say that you can maintain a motivation for a medical interview?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101721	No, 14 days is the maximum limit, and I am happy to say it again: I would like it to be shorter. But here we have a common political responsibility. And if we had found more money for this scheme, we could have paid something else, or rather said: the municipalities could have done that. So here I just think that all seven parties that are behind this agreement are jointly responsible. I think we should evaluate this bill and see whether we are going to live up to the great political expectations that we have that this is going to be a significant quality boost. Yeah, I'm a nurse, and I'm really happy to be a nurse. I have worked for 6 years in the emergency room in Aalborg, I have seen a lot of drug addicts, and it is quite true that at the time when a drug addict feels the motivation to go into treatment and maybe come with his family in hand and say: Now I can no longer, now I want help, then there must be help. And that is exactly what the seven parties behind the pool negotiations have said, so we have realised that municipal health efforts should be of such quality and caliber that they can carry out this task. I think we have a shared responsibility, and I think this bill is the right way to go. And I hope SF still thinks so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101840	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101843	The rapporteur can be calm there, because we are. We are voting in favour of the improvements. That's not it at all. But the debate is more about: how can we take that responsibility politically, so that it is not only the economy that is given high weight, but also the individual we want to help further? I believe that the KL could well have used a different rhetoric in relation to the fact that they also have to deliver in the area of drug abuse. There is already a 14-day guarantee in the social field, and yet they do not live up to it. That is why I just want to hear about the position of the Socialists when the KL says every time that it has to cost more money. Does the Socialist Group believe that KL already fulfils the treatment guarantees in the area of drug abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030101935	Well, the social area of drug abuse is not my area of responsibility. We are discussing the medical sector, and what the seven parties agree on, as I understand it, is that we would very much like to have holistic and quality treatment combining the social and medical sectors. That's what's our aim. And I would very much like, as the Social Democrats' health rapporteur, to be the banner leader running ahead. But we also have to take the responsibility that is ours. We also need to listen to the answers that have been received. What can be delivered within the framework jointly set up by the seven parties? If we had wanted it differently and if we wanted it differently in the future, it is we who must take that responsibility and define the framework so that the municipalities know that it is not a "can" task, it is a "must" task. In the same way as we clearly specify what needs to be resolved with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102035	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102039	Thank you. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we also agree that there is much improvement in this proposal, and that is very good. There is talk of a time for a doctor's interview of 3 days versus 14 days, and I would like to ask Mr. Møller Mortensen, if he does not agree that there is a world different from having his conversation within the first 3 days and waiting for 14 days. In other words, will not a great many people not be treated and thus not get out of their abuse if we adopt this as it now stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102116	Yes, I fully agree with the rapporteur on that. That is why I would also like to say that I hope that all seven rapporteurs who are behind this pool agreement will stand up and accept responsibility and say: we have not been able to deliver what we would like, but we have been given an opportunity through the Minister for Health to nod yes to this change, and all seven parties have nodded yes to it. Then you shouldn't stand here and give up responsibility. But I say, and I say it again: I think it is desirable for a drug addict who asks for treatment and who is motivated by it to come to a medical interview as soon as possible in order to maintain motivation, to know what is actually involved in medical treatment. That is why I also say: my wish is not that the 98 municipalities should withdraw on 14 days, but that many municipalities understand this and have the same attitude as the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Left have expressed, and as the Social Democrats in this Chamber have so far expressed. And that is as little time as possible. But from here we also have to deliver what we have to deliver, and it may be that we have to find more money. That is why I also recommend an evaluation and hope that we can agree on this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102236	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102239	Thank you. Now I can hear that what I know is about money. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur what the social cost is to every addict who does not come out of his abuse but continues his abuse, which surely involves a greater cost than if the addict got out of his abuse and could participate in the general life of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102304	I think we should put the benefits in a different order. I think that we should first take a look at the personal tragedies that are behind a drug abuse for both the addict, the family and the immediate surroundings and then look in the second row at what might be of the economy. I believe that this bill raises the quality of each drug addict. I also believe that it gives the social picture that I think we should live up to in a welfare state. And in my rapporteur's speech I also mentioned both the social and the personal disadvantages of having so many drug addicts, and that in 2009 there were 33,000 drug addicts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102348	Mrs Sarah Nørris for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102350	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on how a drug addict should keep his motivation if it can be as long as 14 days before he can come to a medical interview.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102404	I think that is really, really difficult. That is why I also hope that for the vast majority it will be significantly shorter than 14 days. What we have put forward in the legislative proposal, and which seven parties have nodded to, is that it is the maximum waiting time to get to work. So this also applies to the medical consultation, which I believe helps to maintain motivation. They help to give a drug addict an insight into what it actually means to get into medical drug abuse treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102443	Mrs. Sarah Nørris.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102446	Could the rapporteur perhaps think that it was possible to reinstate some of what was contained in the original proposal for urgent withdrawal before medical treatment is available?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102459	I want us to have as high-quality offers to the drug addicts as possible and, as the Socialist rapporteur, as I said, I would like to be the banner leader of these things. If there are any new initiatives in this area, which we can discuss here in Parliament, I am very, very happy to take part. And if, in the conciliation circle or in another conciliation circle, we can find money for this area, so that in the long term, for example, the deadline of 14 days for medical consultation can be reduced, then I would also very much like to join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102533	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102542	Thank you. The basis for this bill is, in fact, the resolution that we were a majority behind in spring 2012. The funds were subsequently found in the 2014-17 rate pool agreement. In the pool, we agreed to give a broad priority to the fight against drug abusers. Abuse for individuals is associated with health and social problems, which can be serious, not least in relation to vulnerable groups. That's why this effort is really, really important. We all agree on that. The proposal we are dealing with here is about drug abuse, where there is a need for an improvement in treatment efforts, which is, of course, very much about catching the addict when the motivation is there and one is ready to accept treatment. That is why the proposal is also about guaranteeing some rights to the abusers. The proposal provides for the right to medical consultation, the right to treatment and the right to freedom of choice in connection with drug abuse treatment. In the comments to the 2012 motion for a resolution, and it is also stated in the Rate Pool Agreement, it was clear that there should be a medical interview within the first 3 days after the drug addict had approached the municipality about medical or social drug abuse treatment. In the present proposal, the three days have become 14 days on the basis of the consultation responses. It can be said that it is understandable that there can be challenges by holding a 3-day period, perhaps especially in smaller municipalities. But should we not allow man to come first to the person who is an addict and who comes to our door for help and to get out of the abuse? How hopeless will it be when you are standing there with withdrawal and struggling to keep your motivation for treatment and then being told that you can come back in 14 days? That is simply not good enough. Some say we can't afford it. So think of the social costs of the addict who does not come out of his abuse because we made the deadline too long. On top of that, a 14-day period could also push the treatment schedule. For example: The Minister's comments appear in the consultation note: • In the event of abuse of drugs such as drugs: hash, cocaine and amphetamine, in the case of social drug abuse treatment under Section 101 of the Services Act, treatment plans for the course of treatment as hitherto developed by the practitioners in this field, and the outcome of the medical study will be one of several elements in the overall assessment of treatment needs. ▪ A doctor's interview with a period of 14 days to be included as part of a treatment plan, which also has to be there after 14 days, I find it difficult to see how it can be put together in practice. That is why we say in the Danish People's Party: let us do what is humanly right, and for the cynics one might also say what is economically right, and stick to the deadline of 3 days for a medical interview. Then we have a very good proposal here, which we would like to support also in relation to the free choice where drug addicts are given the same opportunity to choose the place of treatment, regardless of whether it is medical or social drug treatment. It has been discussed whether private treatment offers will be able to provide more enticing offers, but there we have the confidence that the visiting doctor can control it. In the Danish People's Party, we have the most focus on securing the individual the treatment and the treatment place for which he is motivated. The motivation is alpha and omega for success with the treatment, and there is free choice a good element. If agreement can otherwise be reached, the Danish People's Party can support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102912	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102915	Thank you. I have to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether he is in favour of this bill as it stands or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102928	We think it is vitally important that we have a discussion in the circle about what the cost is of taking this proposal as it stands, i.e. with the 14 days, and whether there is not so much reason to say 3 days, so we have to say in agreement that that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102942	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030102946	Can the rapporteur confirm that up to the presentation and submission of this bill the Danish People's Party has nodded to it? Can the rapporteur nod to the fact that the Danish People's Party in the negotiations on the rate pool, which has just been concluded, has not spoken out to find more money for the area of this bill, so that it could be made, not a 14-day deadline, but a 3-day deadline for medical care?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103015	I can confirm that we may not have paid sufficient attention to these three days. However, I can also say that I believe that when we change what has been an agreement, both in a report and in a previous wage-pool agreement, we should call for a discussion on how we specifically resolve this in a sensible way. In fact, I think there has been a need for this, and we should do so now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103036	Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103040	Actually, I think that's a little interesting. That's why I just came back down here. For can the rapporteur confirm that after it was changed from the 3 days to the 14 days, there has been a dialogue where the Danish People's Party has confirmed that it was okay with the Danish People's Party to make this proposal and that you supported it now looking like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103107	I have not entered into that dialogue and I shall not be able to say whether there has been a specific dialogue. I am not aware that we have had a specific dialogue in which we have accepted the 14 days rather than the 3 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103122	Mrs. Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103124	That only makes it even more confusing. For what does the Danish People's Party mean? Is this the dialogue by e-mail that I have at least also seen, where the Danish People's Party confirms that when it could not be different with the 6 million? kr., which was deposed, so was this bill supported? Then there's that, like mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl stands and says on the platform today. What is the position of the Danish People's Party on this bill? I find that very, very confusing at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103200	The position of the Danish People's Party on this proposal is that we must ensure the best possible treatment for drug addicts, so that they have the best chance of getting out of their abuse. This is the policy of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103210	Mrs Mai Mercado for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103213	It is a little unusual to ask questions internally, that is to say, to the side where you stand in the Parliamentary Chamber. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that the relationship between this draft law and the motion for a resolution tabled in 2012 has not previously been maintained by the Ministry. Nowhere has it been given that there is that connection, and that is why it is something that one has had to guess oneself. This is one of the major mistakes and shortcomings here. In addition, it says to me in the note that has been sent that if you have not responded, the Ministry assumes that you consent. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether this is a good way of getting support for a proposal as the rapporteur sees it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103300	No. As I have just said, I think it is really important when it is so significant a change and something that has actually been adopted several times in the past that you will then have a very specific discussion on how to resolve this in the best possible way. It is not by allowing it to be a period of 14 days, but it is about to find out how to ensure that you get into treatment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103318	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103331	For the Radical Left, it is an ambition to lift Denmark from scratch and that as politicians we ensure the most exposed voice and focus on helping those people who most need it. Many of these people do not have a public voice to shout very loudly about. It is not drug addicts that we typically see down here in the castle square demonstrate for better conditions, because they do not have the power to do so. For most drug addicts, it is often all ample to keep a daily life, and a great many of them struggle with various diseases that relate to their drug use. It is therefore also gratifying that today we can agree that we are their political voice and that we guarantee them better rights. With this bill, we are introducing the right for people who wish to go to drug abuse treatment medically as well as socially, to have a medical interview at the latest before the commencement of drug abuse treatment. For those who wish to receive medical treatment for drug abuse, we also introduce the right to receive treatment within 14 days of being approached by the municipality of residence. Finally, we introduce a right to choose freely to be treated in a public or private treatment offer other than that for which the municipality of residence has searched. On the radical side, we are very pleased with the agreement with the other parties, and we are also pleased with the legislative proposal, which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103508	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030103533	Thank you. On this bill, I would just like to start by saying that it is an improvement on what it looks like today, but of course we are still not in the finish line. To those of you who don't know a drug addict and don't really know how these people feel, I just want to say briefly that those who are so addicted to these drugs, at a time when they're feeling pretty good, can find themselves in a situation where they think they'd like to get help to get out of that. Being a drug addict is really, really stressful. It takes a lot of hours to get money for the drugs you need, and it takes a lot of control over your nerves to be able to make, for example. the crime that needs to be done in order to get that money for your abuse. The cost of the abuse, depending on how dependent you are, can reach 10,000 to 20,000 kroner. That's why it's so important for these people to be helped as soon as possible. After all, many of our abusers are also extremely vulnerable people. They have a mental disorder in their luggage, a upbringing that hasn't been a dance on roses, and a lot of physical diseases. That is why it means a great deal when they finally say: I want help. It means a lot that they get that motivation and that we are actually there to help them further. I believe, of course, that the first three-day draft for medical care that the government brought in was very good. Now we've ended up where it says that it's got to be 14 days from being motivated to getting a medical call. As I started by saying, it is better than nothing, but we must also be honest with each other and say that this is not really good enough. That is why I am very pleased that the Socialists themselves are proposing that we should have an evaluation of this bill. I myself would have proposed evaluating the proposal after two years, in order to meet again in the circle that has negotiated this, to look at how we can create the economy for us to get the 14 days further down. So I would also really like to come from here with a song to the municipalities. The municipalities are talking about that it would cost a great deal of money if they could deliver what we are asking them for, namely to have a doctor's interview after 3 days. That's why they need this extra money. The municipalities are actually being paid for in the social field, for example. to provide a 14-day treatment guarantee that they do not provide. They get the money, we send the money to a task they have to solve that they don't solve. Now I heard the Socialist rapporteur say: it is not my area, it is the social area. But that is precisely the problem of drug abuse: there is a Ministry of Social Affairs and there is a Ministry of Health which is not necessarily good at talking, just as the municipalities and hospitals are not good at talking. That is why we also proposed a national strategy for drug abuse by the SF, but unfortunately there was no majority in favour of it during the negotiations. But now a working group has been set up to look at this whole area and how it is treated. Are we living up to the things we have to live up to, are there good experiences, and how can we share the good experiences? Then another issue was also addressed. One of the reasons why you do this is that the profession would not be there with the municipalities because some of the municipalities are so small that they will not be professionally skilled enough to be able to deal with the most vulnerable groups regarding the medical interview. I just wanted to say that one could have written oneself out of that. It could have been asked that municipalities which have a population below, for example. 200,000 people had to come together to make some offers. You could have done that. That wouldn't have been a problem at all. But that path has not been chosen. I just want to say that we support any improvement, but we are also looking forward to discussing it here in order, as the rapporteur of the Left said, to abolish some of that bureaucracy and agree the evaluation itself in committee so that we can look at what we can do to deal with this area, so that our drug addicts will not be playing ball between ministries or between municipalities and Danske Regions. So let's just get started. I just think that this particular group really needs someone to take responsibility for creating a treatment that makes that group healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104032	There are three brief comments for the time being. First, it's Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104038	Now it is not the case that everyone has agreed to this proposal. Because in one of the notes that have been sent out, it says that if you do not say anything, then you consent to the one who is silent. In any case, this is something that we may well think goes against the report which was drawn up in connection with motion for a resolution B 16, in which the SF also took a very large part. The rapporteur has actually given some answers to that, but perhaps I would just like to give an explanation: whether the SF will look at whether we can write out what the rapporteur himself said so that we can get a better agreement for the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104115	It is quite true that the Ministry actually asked us about this very proposal in relation to whether it actually became more expensive. I also wrote to the Conservative People's Party to hear it because it was originally your suggestion that you had any objections to this. Of course, that's the way it goes. We get a number of days to react, and if we don't answer it, that's it. I understand that this is more expensive, but I find it difficult to understand it, because I think it is necessary to have a realistic dialogue with the municipalities, in relation to the extra money they always require and demand. Because they never, or at least rarely, solve the problems in this area. That's what I'm gonna say. I have said from the very beginning that I am open to the fact that we in the committee are looking at making an evaluation. I think we should generally do that in this area, and I also think that we should follow the money we send so that after a year the municipalities do not come and say: we do not have any money. We can then look together at what we do when the evaluation comes about, for example. Two years, to create a better financial framework. Because we're actually willing to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104218	Mrs Sophie Løhde for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104223	I must not hide the fact that there are many areas where we in the Left certainly think the government is not doing well enough and where there is reason to criticise the government. But I must say that I am a little puzzled by this debate and by what I have heard, among other things. The draftsman of the opinion of the SF. In other words, the SF has itself approved the change from the 3 days to the 14 days, and then today we are starting to lose some of the responsibility. But we other parties have not said that 14 days is better than 3 days, and then we are not in favour of what was originally agreed on 3 days. After all, as a party, we must take responsibility for what resources are allocated to. And if you have more ambitions, then you have to act on that in relation to raising the amount of money needed when you are made aware that there is a difference between what you would have expected the economy to be in this bill and what has subsequently proved to be applicable. Therefore, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the SF has approved a change in the draft law from 3 days to 14 days, compared to when a doctor's interview must be initiated by the latest date.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104338	I mean, I just don't want this to kill the democratic conversation. I actually started by saying that this bill means a change from 14 days to 3 days, and now Mrs Sophie Løhde is asking me, excuse me, rather lamely, if I am aware of it. Yeah, that's why I'm standing here in the Assembly Hall. Well, I know there's a change, and I've read the whole bill, like Mrs Sophie Løhde. There is a change in the proposal itself that we are behind. I started by saying that we support any improvement, and I also started by saying that this is an improvement. As far as the future is concerned, I have actually replied to Conservatives now I understand that Mrs Sophie Løhde has not listened throughout my speech that we would also like to take responsibility for making an evaluation, so that in the conciliation circle in two years' time, when the evaluation is there, we can again have a discussion about creating a better economy now that the municipalities think it requires more money. We are also willing to do so in the negotiations in two years' time when the rate pool is to be discussed and when the evaluation is available, that is to say, to look at how the economic part can also be lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104441	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104444	What I think kills the democratic debate is when one expresses something but at the same time nodded to something else. I believe that the agreements we are making must be targeted. We must also measure up to what kind of money we give priority to some areas. We must also aim to ensure that the world sometimes turns out to be so unfairly organized that the political agreements that have been concluded do not always provide enough money. That is why I am wondering about the criticism of this, and that is why I think that the SF must take responsibility for it today. Because if I go back and look at the account behind this, B 16, or whatever it was called, I can ask: What was the reason why the Left as the only party was outside? Thank you, President-in-Office. ) Yes, it was the fact that people couldn't give funding for this... we were worried about the economy in it... and not that we disagreed with raising the level of ambition in this area, and that we had to do something more. That is just why I ask the rapporteur to confirm today (Thank you very much). ) that the change in this area has been approved by the SF and that SF at no time (Thank you! ) in the rate pool negotiations last week has raised this about wanting to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104552	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104555	Well, actually, I started by saying that we are voting for any improvement. I don't know how many times I have to repeat it. I have also said to Conservatives that this wage-pool agreement has been approved because it had that number of days and that is why we have approved it. But I'm still going to say that I don't think it's optimal. I actually don't think it is. I do not think it is optimal, because the best thing would be that at the time when people are motivated to seek help, they can actually get it. Well, we actually agreed to a national strategy, I just want to say that there was no majority in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104633	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104637	I see a little bit both in words and in emphasis that the rapporteur beats the governing parties. The rapporteur says that this bill is not optimal. Can the SF's rapporteur explain to me how the SF has entered this very specific area, and whether the SF has spoken for and fought for more money, so that it was not a 14-day deadline, but a 3-day deadline that could be met?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104716	I do not believe that the bill is optimal, because when you come as a drug addict and have withdrawal and feel really bad, help must also be there when you are actually motivated to get help. I also think, as a member of the SF, that it should be possible to say that help for these people is really, really important. Then we can discuss the economy. I actually suggested to the satellite negotiations... now I hear we have to open that big pitch pool debate... let's do it... that we should have a national strategy for this area, because that's not good enough. In contrast to the rapporteur, I have been sitting over in the Ministry of Social Affairs on anonymous drug treatment, where it should be made possible, with a change of law, for all the municipalities to be able to offer it now. The KL's answer was the same: it would cost extra money and therefore they would not touch it with a pole. But then we found a solution together because KL always comes with the same requirement, which is called: We want more money. And even when they get more money, they are not able to do the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104825	Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104828	We have asked the 98 municipalities to carry out the task. It is our responsibility to set the framework, including the financial framework. I have not heard SF fight for more money and that it should not be a 14-day limit, but a 3-day limit. That's why I just think SF has to say: this is the best we can do now. That is what seven parties agree on. On the other hand, I would like to say to the SF's rapporteur that the discussion here about whether the small municipalities should do some inter-municipal cooperation in order to carry out this task seems to me to be very sensible. However, let us discuss it towards the third reading, i.e. whether something can be written in, which will make sense and will help the drug addicts who live in small municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030104911	In the course of the negotiations, the rapporteur felt that it was really bad to draw up a national strategy. After all, a debate is being opened on what each of us said about drug abuse, and we wanted, of course, that instead of the Ministry of Health sitting with its share and the Ministry of Social Affairs sitting with its share, we could put these ministers together and think more about what we can do nationally in this area with some of the most vulnerable groups. There the rapporteur felt that it should not be, but that it should be a working group of its own. Come on! So when you stand and throw mud on one side, you have to be able to recognise these negotiations that have been going on. I started by saying that any improvement is good and that is why we are voting in favour. But that does not mean that we are sitting here and saying that now all the problems in the world are solved by a drug addict being able to come to the doctor after 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105003	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Sarah Nørris as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105011	The Enhedslisten takes a very positive view of this change in the Health Act. In particular, we welcome the equality between persons in medical and social drug abuse treatment, which is being proposed here. It is about time and, above all, the right thing to do. At the same time, it allows for a holistic and coherent effort that everyone expects from the Danish healthcare system, regardless of the life situation in general. We are also extremely pleased that local authorities will now be given legal powers to cover the transport costs of people under the heroin prescription system. It was about time, by the way. Having said that, I still have to drip a little wormwood in the cup. First of all, we are opposed to funding social measures through pool funds, because the rate pool is financed by taking money annually from some of the groups in our society that already have the most difficulty. Secondly, it has clearly emerged, and the debate here in the past perhaps also showed that it is a completely unhelpful tool to ensure proper social action when the municipal budgets are as tight as they are. By the way, you know that song very well from Enhedslisten's side. We are also surprised that the Ministry has chosen to establish that it is okay that as many as 14 days can go by, calculated from the time when the citizen approaches his municipality with a request for treatment and, moreover, is probably motivated just on the day before the medical interview is to take place. We are all familiar with the fact that a decision to change something in one's life has only been made, so it should be now and not tomorrow, and certainly not in 14 days' time. It may be that this bill equates people in different types of abuse treatment, but they do not become equal to people in the rest of the Somatic Health Service. However, regardless of the number of days before a doctor's interview arrives, it is appropriate that each addict should be assessed in relation to his or her addiction immediately after contact with the municipality. If you have to wait up to 14 days for withdrawal at a time with your doctor, it is 14 days when you have to get your drug in one way or another. And it is therefore very worrying that the comments have removed the passage where it is specified that a person wishing to get into drug abuse treatment is immediately seen by a doctor if it is estimated that there is an acute withdrawal problem. The Enhedslisten is therefore in favour of this bill, and we also support it, as did the previous rapporteur, because it is a clear improvement. However, we reserve the right to table a few amendments later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105243	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Sir. Peter Laigaard as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105301	Thank you for the floor. The proposal we are now considering contains many good elements. As a conciliation partner, of course, this is important and we welcome the initiative that is being taken here, which is about and represents a prioritization of treatment efforts for drug addicts. I would like to say straight away that the Liberal Alliance stands by the agreements reached here, of course, but we may also have some wishes in the longer term. The proposal now introduces a new set of rights for people who wish to be treated for their abuse and obligations for the municipalities responsible for the treatment of abuse. In concrete terms, we can also hear from the debate here.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the same time, there will also be freedom of choice in relation to public or private treatment services other than those for which the municipality of residence has been consulted, and provision will be made for the local authority to cover the costs of transport to and from the place of treatment of persons undergoing medical treatment. The initiative is a good continuation of the social initiative presented by the Liberal Alliance at its summer group meeting in August this year, and we did so there, among other things. It is clear that we want easy and rapid access to drug abuse treatment and we clearly stated that it is essential for vulnerable drug users with treatment needs that treatment be started very quickly. So the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal as it stands and as we have agreed. However, we are, of course, open to looking in the long term at whether, as the previous rapporteur from the Enhedslisten said, we could look at the different types of abuse and whether the treatment could be implemented more quickly for some types of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105436	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Mai Mercado as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105455	It is conservative heart blood to care for the most vulnerable in society, and that group belongs very much to the abusers. The Conservative People's Party tabled the motion for a resolution in 2012, which is then the forerunner of the legislative proposal we are about to deal with now. It ended then with a joint report supported by all the parties except the Left. It was then agreed that drug addicts who are motivated to receive treatment will be entitled to a medical interview within three days of the request and to draw up a social and medical plan within 14 days of the request, in which the free choice of social treatment will also be extended to medical treatment. The government was therefore required to put forward a bill ensuring that drug users were dealt with within the 14 days that the law now prescribes. 14 days is a long time in a drug abuse world. A number of others have mentioned this up here from the platform. It is also for that reason that our intention with the proposal was for an addict to be able to be examined within three days by a doctor who could give the professionally qualified treatment and advice up to the start of the treatment, including an assessment of whether there would be a need to provide some substitute medicine, such as methadone, so that there could be a little more tranquillity on the addict. I am thinking in particular of heroin addicts. Because it is the case that some drug addicts are not ready to go into actual treatment and need to be on substitution medicine for a shorter or longer period of time. This medical interview was supposed to uncover that. The government has then put forward this proposal, but unfortunately it is a legislative proposal which does not follow the intention of the report that the government itself helped to make. And I think that you then run away from the promise you made and the account you made. Some people will say that we are used to seeing that. But I think it must be the case that when we give a hand on a report, we also generally adhere to the content of that report. The legislative proposal itself involves three rights, and many speakers have come around them in a very good and proper way. What is particularly under discussion here today is how the three days have suddenly turned into 14 days, because the Socialists were just saying on 7 October that it was just three days, and you can also look at the legislative programme. After all, we welcome the rights this proposal entails, but we just do not think it is good enough. Nor should we be mistaken that we are backing this bill, but we do not think it is good enough that you, as an addict, only have access to a medical interview after 14 days. Then it may well be and it has been problematized by several of us that it becomes costly for the municipalities to make a medical interview for anyone seeking treatment. But then we will have to see in committee whether we cannot narrow it down, see if we can differentiate it so that the most heavily burdened abusers are dealt with first and that this happens as soon as possible. I would just like to add that it is a pity and a pity and a pity for these people that it will be the economy that will slow down the resolution which was agreed almost unanimously and which had very strong support for the report that was made. What has happened in the days that have passed from 7 October until now, I cannot say. In any case, I think it is a pity that it will no longer be possible for the addict to get the medical interview that we all agree is good and important for the addict.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105831	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the Minister for Health and Prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030105845	It has been a good debate on an important proposal in which I think there is reason to insist that there is not a single rapporteur, not a single party, not a single member of parliament who does not recognise that this proposal is an improvement on the way in which drug addicts have the opportunity to be treated, the way in which they have the opportunity to live. So that is kr., namely because improvements are being made and better rights are being granted. Some comments have been made, which I think there is reason to take up. First of all, there were, among other things. on the part of the Left, but also of the Socialist rapporteur, pointed out the need to see information on waiting times for the various institutions. I think that is extremely sensible, and I think we should work on that in the further process. Questions were also raised about access to justice, and I think there is reason to look at this too. Then both the Socialist rapporteur and the SF rapporteur called for an evaluation. It can also be quite reasonable, especially because it is new rights that are being created here. So far, so good. What was then left was, in fact, this, with an outrage, which it almost developed into, that the original agreement on a deadline of 3 days has now become a 14-day deadline. Did anyone wish to extend the deadline to the 14 days? Was there anyone who said: The original idea with the 3 days is a bad idea; let's just take 14 days? There wasn't. There was no one who didn't think it would be better with the original 3 days. The change has been made because there was not enough money for what we wanted politically. And when it became clear in the dialogue with KL, on 19 September, following on from it and following an account of the financial situation to the parties of the Danish Parliament, I wrote out to the rapporteurs who are here today and I quote that, in the light of the above, I hope you will agree that the bill proposes the introduction of a right to medical consultation, which must take place no later than before the commencement of the drug abuse treatment, that is, within 14 days of the request to the municipality. So there's no doubt about it. From 19 September until today, 1⁄2 months later, there has been no doubt that these were the grounds. Following on from that I wrote: I shall request that any comments on the draft law drawn up as described above come in, and if we do not receive any comments, then we assume that you agree with the proposal. Well, it's totally blinking clear what's going on here. The curious thing is that the only party that responds to it is the Left, which has a clear question. But otherwise no party has so much as bothered to reply to the e-mail nor any of those who are outraged today, such as the Conservative People's Party, the SF or the Danish People's Party. If you were unhappy, you could have picked up the phone or grabbed me and said, "You, couldn't we sit down and talk about that?" On the contrary, there have been no reactions, and that is why we are, of course, putting forward this bill in this way and as it stands. It could then be said that we have just been through a pool round, and that is where we could have used the opportunity to say: hey, the 6 million. kr. is not enough; we would like to hold on for the 3 days, so we would like to have these approx. 26 million kr. Into every year. Nobody did. There were none of the parties in the Danish People's Party, SF or the Conservative People's Party who, during the good, but also relatively detailed and long process, took the opportunity to mention it in one word. That is why it is on the verge of hypocrisy when you get yourself turned up today to say that this is not good enough. This has been approved by all the parties that are behind the pool agreement. That is why I also expect all the parties to vote in favour of what they have approved and not to drag cheap, fast press points home from what has been agreed. I have full respect for Enhedslisten taking the position that Enhedslisten does. Enhedslisten has taken no responsibility, Enhedslisten has in no way contributed to the solution, and therefore Enhedslisten is of course also completely free to do what you want. But the rest of us have a joint responsibility to lift it here and to carry it home and to ensure the improvements that lie there to the delight of some of the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110452	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110456	Oh, my God! In other words, to call those with whom we sit and negotiate on a daily basis hypocritical, because it merely makes it difficult for the government to run away from the report that the government itself was involved in in 2012 - it is a great thing that the minister can make himself do that. And that the Minister calls the parties who have been saying here today that they still want to see a three-day deadline, too offended, I must say I am also surprised. The sharp choice of words which the Minister chooses to use today seems to me quite indecent to me to make oneself use in this Chamber. What the Minister has heard today is precisely a flaming defence of the view that what is being proposed in the draft law is not good enough. The 14-day period for a medical interview is not good enough, and that is not what was the spirit of that motion for a resolution. There is no mention of this in the letter sent by the Minister to the rapporteurs. May I just remind you that the three days, and not the 14 days, are still in the legislative programme. How will the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110613	Well, regardless of how you turn it around, Mrs Mai Mercado is also on the receiving list on 19 September for this relatively detailed letter, which gives all the opportunity to respond, to pick up the phone. The rapporteur has even bought my direct number, my e-mail, the whole thing and say: there is something here that we do not really think is playing. But maybe that leads back to the problem here, that we're on our way to that tulliard segment. There wasn't that money. After all, the Conservative People's Party did not give that money, and that is, of course, why we have not responded. There are two options: either you have been snorkeling an hour, you have not read your mail, it is what it is or you have not been able to direct the money. I do not assume that Mrs Mai Mercado is snoring per hour, so the situation is that it has not been possible to indicate where the money should come from. And that's why you end up in this hypocritical double position, which is a hypocritical double position, that's wanting it all at half the price.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110717	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110721	Well, it's quite grotesque. In the spring we adopted a resolution on this guarantee for children who grow up in abusing families, and the parties have just agreed on that. But that is precisely because you entered an open and good debate in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Yes, thank you, it was a different ministry from what the Minister himself is sitting in and got the report, which also received the support of all parties, in place. I just have to say that I think it is rather sloppy when, in a legislative catalogue, you write 3 days to change it far, far later to the 14 days and run from all the promises you have made and the account that was made back then.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110804	One of the only ones who has sloppy here is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, who gets an e-mail and did not respond to it. You have a month and a half to react, to say: if we could not, we should not do anything else. But there won't be a word, not until today. It's the only sloppy thing that's here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110825	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110829	It is possible that I should acknowledge a little bit of sloppyness, but I also think it is an exaggeration when the Minister says that it is approved. What has happened is that an e-mail has been sent out stating that if you do not reply, the ministry considers it approved. Whoever's silent consents. I have to admit that it may be naive that I normally believe that if there are such important things that need to be changed, then you also make sure that those who have to approve it are given the opportunity and are specifically invited to approve it. So I'm not seeing that one has done that in this context. But if the Minister himself says that we could have just called and said that we could sit down and talk about it, then it is not too late. I would therefore like to urge and say to the Minister: could we not sit down and talk about this and find a proper way of solving it so that we could both live up to the agreements that have been made in the past and get a sensible agreement in relation to the economy and so on. Now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110933	There were some tulliards rolling again. There some unfunded promises were rolling that wanted without funding. The world just doesn't work that way. There has to be money for what we do, and here's money for 14 days. There's no money for three days. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110956	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030110959	What I am calling for here is for us to sit down and discuss how we can resolve this properly. It has also been said during the debate that in many places it will be possible to speed things up. Then it might be that in a discussion with the KL during the discussions one could also find out that it may not be 14 days, but that it may then be 7 days, so get the discussion on how to solve this in the best way possible. We all agree that we want to do better. I guess it shouldn't be that hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111036	It's getting more and more embarrassing. For exactly that with the 7 days, the mail that has apparently not been read or that has certainly not been responded to is what the additional cost of going there will be. Then I just want to say to the point that this is a fair way of doing it: yes, it is a perfectly fair way of doing it; it is actually the way we have done it in a number of other cases, including in the health field. I do not see that one can misunderstand the following: I should ask that any comments on the draft law be drawn up as described above and sent per year. e-mail to stuff like that. If we don't get any comments, we assume you're joining the bill. Well, that's unmistakably clear Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111122	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic, briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111125	I also hope that the Minister next time, when the Minister himself does not comply with his part of the agreement, where, for example, we are. must approve or report back within 8 days of questioning. Of course, also remembers to reply back. I know, the Minister knows, and I have also pointed this out to the Minister, when the Minister goes out and approves some agreement without actually getting it. It is quite true that the e-mail that was sent says that if you say nothing, it is because you join in. Has the Minister heard the SF say that we do not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111202	I have heard the SF say today that one would like to see a better financial framework. That is why we would like to have an evaluation within two years, with the aim of possibly raising the financial framework at that time. And so I have heard the SF say today: we have approved the proposal. That's what I heard the SF say today. That is why, of course, I also assume that the SF, with its comments, is entirely behind it as it stands now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111227	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111231	Well, that's fine. Then it's kind of settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111233	Then there are no further comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Prevention. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111257	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111307	Thank you for that, President. L 36 is a draft law on the Maritime and Fisheries Fund. It is a bill that we in the Left have looked very much forward to discussing and negotiating. The special feature of the draft law is that we are now dealing first with the draft law, although we are not really done negotiating the bill with the Minister for Food. However, since we in the Left, like the government, believe that it is important that we can launch the many initiatives that these EU funds bring, we will not object to this. But it goes without saying that a closer debate on whether we agree with the government on what should be the content of the bill is not possible. But I am very excited about how the negotiations are going to land, because it is no secret that the parties of the Folketing extend far in terms of how the fisheries sector is going to develop. However, I will refrain from commenting on the political wishes of other parties and instead merely revealing some of the wishes of the Left in terms of the implementation of European fisheries funds. On the whole, the Liberal Party believes that European fisheries funds should be used to support and strengthen efforts in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, not to clean up agriculture. The reason for this is that Danish fishing is one of the hardest-pressed industries, and it is important for the Left that we continue to develop our leadership as one of the world's largest fishing nations. Danish fishing is facing a major change, as we are the first country to implement the discard ban. It is an agreement that is supported by the entire Danish Parliament and the Danish Fisheries Association, however, under certain conditions. I do not want to go into the omnibus regulation or any other detail in dealing with this bill, but one of the prerequisites has been that we would politically support this restructuring of Danish fisheries in the context of the new discard rules. That is why it is crucial for the Left that we have a significant amount of money set aside for the conversion of vessels. We are talking about some vessels being cut in half and extended in order to deal with the new discord rules, which is why we are not talking about small things. The Folketing must support this. In addition, we would recommend what I sense is a common political desire, namely that we give priority and ensure that knowledge is collected throughout the phasing-in of the discard system, so that both fishermen and companies can have the necessary access as quickly as possible to as much conversion information as possible. Next, we have very great challenges with seals in Danish waters. We in the Left welcome the fact that the stock is doing so well that we should now regulate aid to a sustainable level, so that there is room for both seals and fishermen. But until we have it done, there are just areas where we will have to pay compensation unless we say to the coastal fishermen that they have to pack their gear and sail home. We just need to be honest about that. In addition, we spend a lot of money on applied research. We in the Left would like to continue to give priority to this, but to that we have three wishes: we want researchers and fishermen to be forced to work more together. There are many projects where fishermen and researchers pass by each other, and understanding of the same matter often does not exist. That is why we must call for greater cooperation. The second thing is that we want the research funds we then use to be more focused on the important species of Danish fishing, and thus the Danish society is also financially supported. There are too many places where we lack biological advice, resulting in a massive reduction in quotas due to the lack of advice. It is not sensible to use public funds, which is why we must give political priority to this in conjunction with Danish fisheries. Thirdly, we want to reinvent the old REX system; it gives fishermen involved an increased share of the EU's annual quota, and it gives fishermen an increased understanding of the work of biologists and biologists an increased understanding of the work of fishermen. This is because, on the extra voyages, both fishermen and biologists are allowed to identify areas where test fishing can be carried out. I can see that I have been mistaken about how much time I have, why I would just like to end by saying that we also want to give priority to the Danish fishing ports in relation to the transition that is facing, and finally, of course, to Danish aquaculture, where this is a gain for both our environment and our pond and sea farms. Well, then there must be some questions if you want to ask more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111839	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Orla Sea as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030111849	I'll tell you what, sir. Bjarne Laustsen can't be here today, and he usually takes care of the fishing. But I have promised to make our views known. In short, this draft law aims to create the necessary legal framework to establish and manage the separate support schemes under the EU's Maritime and Fisheries Fund to meet the objectives of smart and sustainable growth and is the Danish contribution to implementing both the EU's fisheries development policy and the EU's integrated maritime policy through support schemes. When a new law is needed and not just an addition to the existing one, it is about the new regulation on the Maritime and Fisheries Funds covering the period from this year until 2020 and there are other objectives, areas of action and actions than in the applicable fisheries development law. There must be a clear separation between the two funds so that applicants can distinguish. The bill also covers two ministerial areas: the Ministry of Food and the Ministry of City, Housing and Rural Affairs. In future, these can lay down rules for implementing regulations on the individual support schemes of the Sea and Fisheries Fund in the light of the framework of the Danish Maritime and Fisheries Development Programme and the Partnership Agreement between Denmark and the European Commission. In addition, the draft law gives the two ministers the right to establish a set of rules for written and electronic communications to and from the Ministry of Food and the Ministry of City, Housing and Rural Affairs on the subjects covered by the law or rules arising under the law. Just as important as the content of the law is to ensure the effect in practice where the Minister proposes that a monitoring committee be set up to carry out supervision and follow-up with the administrative functions of the law. In addition, there are necessary rules for administration and sanctions, as well as for inter alia: control and access to complaints about administrative decisions. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, this is a useful and necessary legislative proposal and we can endorse it. Moreover, a number of interesting consultation responses have been received which we look forward to discussing in the context of further work. May I make one more comment, namely that this is not really a description of what we are going to use those rules for. These are the rules of the game that we are proposing to adopt today, and the substance of the matter will be referred back to us in the course of discussions with the Minister. Therefore, we do not have any major programme declarations with us today about what we would like to do, but we are, of course, prepared for this to be a tool for developing Danish fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112140	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Christensens as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112153	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party can also support L 36 on the Maritime and Fisheries Fund. It's an exciting piece of work, also because this is a fund that's going to work for the next seven years. And for us it is important to note what the draft law says that this is not just a static proposal, but a proposal which can also develop over time. As the previous rapporteur pointed out, this is the framework for how we can translate these funds, and the Danish People's Party also supports this. After all, there are ongoing negotiations where we discuss politically how we want the framework to be filled out, and there, of course, the Danish People's Party also has its stick horses. What is important to us is, of course, that there will be an opportunity around development that everyone who has relevant knowledge can come in so that they can also contribute to the development of Danish fisheries. Here we see in particular that we in Denmark around aquaculture actually have some opportunities to create growth and employment in particular in harmony with nature and the environment, and of course we would like to support that. I would also like to take this opportunity to say to the Minister that the negotiations so far have been good and positive. There is room for all parties to be allowed to make their wishes, to ask questions, and that is also why we have not finished, because all the answers have not been received. It is the case that we will meet again on 3 November, and there we at least expect from the Danish People's Party that the content can be concluded and that the law can work forward for the benefit of our fishermen, the fishing industry and employment in Denmark. So the Danish People's Party can support the proposal and we look forward to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112340	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112348	As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the aim of the draft law is to provide for the establishment and administration of support schemes under the EU's Maritime and Fisheries Fund to help achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and for the Danish implementation of the EU fisheries development policy as well as the integrated maritime policy through support schemes. It is also true, as has been said, that this is the framework that will apply for the next seven years and that we are currently debating the content. And it is also true that it is a dynamic period or a dynamic process and that there will be an opportunity to regulate along the way. One of the most important things for the Radical Left is that support for the implementation of the CFP should also ensure that the negative impact of fishing on the marine system is minimised. This means, among other things, that we must also use the fund to promote coastal fishing, including taking into account socio-economic aspects, and that is also what concerns jobs, the operation of ports and so on. We must be in agreement with the Union's environmental legislation, and that also means, as the Marine Strategy Directive talks about, that we must achieve good environmental status. These are objectives which it is very important for the Radical Left to take into account when we are debating measures which, of course, are both about adapting the fishing fleet to the discard ban, but also about aquaculture and the challenges of getting as much business development as possible out of that sector. So it is so important for the Radical Left that we can give the Fund a great deal of support to nature-friendly fishing, and I also hope that, in the further process, we will be able to work on a strategy for how the fishing fleet and the way it is being fished will really look when we reach 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112622	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112627	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is an issue of interest to me that the rapporteur mentions that we want first and foremost and that the most important thing is that we promote coastal fishing. I would like the rapporteur to clarify how the rapporteur feels about promoting coastal fishing. One of the biggest challenges facing coastal fishing is, of course, one of them. The seals. Here it doesn't help to make more seal-proof tools. There are too many seals. That makes the fish sick. Seals shame the fish, they eat the fish, and therefore it is not a solution. Now there is a great deal of EU funding for Danish fishing, after all the nets and hook fisheries are only for 10%. of Danish fishing. So if this is such a shift from trawling to fishing for nets, then I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on how to propose that conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112721	Now we are sitting in those negotiations looking at how more can be done to obtain gentle fishing gear, including trawl fishing, and to make their use more selective, but also less burdensome, for nature. That's one thing. The second point is that we are also looking at how, when fishing gear is developed, we could really improve the gentle fishing on the coasts. I do not think we have come to the end of these debates, but this was also to show that it is important for the Radical Left not only to look at how we can improve the gear for trawling and large industrial fishing, but also to look at how these funds can help to increase interest in coastal fishing. Among other things: After all, we are talking about market organizations in relation to the sale of fish, and there are also a number of things about seals that I cannot get into here but on which we will certainly have to discuss further.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112832	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112835	Thank you for your answer. At least I had my intentions confirmed. One of the major changes we have made is this discard ban, in which we are, after all, making fishermen live by a great political desire that they do not throw out fish which, in some cases at least, do not survive. In any case, that is one of the things that I know is also very much in response to the wishes of the Radicals. After all, the payment that Danish fishermen must receive for the restructuring and the losses that must be incurred in connection with it has not yet been paid. I would therefore like to ask the Radicals whether they will fight in the negotiations to ensure increased support for the conversion of these vessels, which must be able to cope with all this by-catch coming in, or whether support for the conversion of vessels will be downgraded.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112929	I think it is too early to say now whether or not it should go for the conversion of vessels. There is no doubt that the adaptation to comply with the discard ban must be supported because it is both new and still rather uncertain how all this is going to happen. We are absolutely prepared to support this transformation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030112952	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113002	The legislative proposal is about ensuring that we can implement the EU's fisheries development policy by 2020 and implement the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, the EMFF, in Denmark. A new law is needed because a number of amendments have been introduced by the EMFF. The CFP shall ensure sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and contribute to healthy marine ecosystems by minimising the negative impact of fishing on ecosystems as much as possible. The SF agrees with the Government that the bill should support the intention of the draft adoption adopted by the Danish Parliament in 2011 on sustainable development in the fisheries sector. But I also have to say that from the SF's point of view we are critical of what we see as the lack of long-term concrete objectives for Danish fisheries, which the support schemes must contribute to achieving. Long-term Danish objectives can be established without conflicting with EU fisheries policy. Danish objectives for fisheries development should also be set so that they support environmental and natural policy and promote development in ports, including small ports and associated communities. The SF has already made this criticism in connection with the current negotiations. One example that we have raised several times is that in the last period 80% went on. of the means of support for trawling. The SF also wants a guarantee from the Minister for the involvement of the parties in the ongoing coinage. Finally, I would just like to say that we know what Danish energy policy will look like by 2050, but we do not know what Danish fishing will look like by 2020. I think it is time for us to have much more concrete targets for how Danish fishing is to survive and can support healthy and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113201	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113205	Thank you. Compared to 80%. It is true that the last time the aid was used for trawling, it has to be said that the fishermen of the nets and the hook fishermen have been particularly generously accommodated, since we are only proposing 10%, which is why the trawlers have been cut in proportion to their eligible aid if this is to be done. But I just lack some clarity from the rapporteur: is it more the fisheries development aid that the SF will give to recreational fishing and fishing for pleasure? So smaller vessels where you don't really live on it, but have some nice yarn that you put out every once in a while or what is the SF going to pay these fishing resources for? When I hear the rapporteur, it sounds as if the EU's agricultural aid should also go to hobby farming. As I mentioned earlier, we have had Danish fishing with trawlers in the lead on a discard ban, which is one of the priorities of the rapporteur's party's agenda. Is it not fair that when an agreement has been reached with them on this, they are also being compensated for compliance with the agreement they make with us politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113323	To the rapporteur's first question, I must say no. And to the following remarks, it is SF's policy that we want more sustainable fishing. Discard has nothing to do with what happens to the marine environment when fishing with trawls. The rapporteur is very well aware of this. It is clear that when you have an objective both from the European Union and from Denmark that we need to have a more sustainable fishing, you would like to have more fishing with nets, and it is our view that we would like to ensure coastal fishing to a greater extent. At the same time, however, there is also a discard ban which must now be implemented and, of course, I have not heard any parties say anything else in the negotiations with the Minister about how this can be achieved in practice. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113428	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113431	Now I'm getting more and more confused. It sounds as if the rapporteur does not think that fishing should be paid for the conversion that they have entered into a political agreement with us on. I'm very surprised. And if I am to understand that the discard ban is suddenly not something that has any particular significance for the rapporteur's value policy, then at least we have changed our position on it. We want to ensure the conversion of vessels which are most harmful to the environment by removing the subsidy for this conversion. But the trawls against which the rapporteur was opposed are constantly being developed. They are being lifted off the seabed because we are giving these subsidies. Now I have to ask quite specifically: how does this relate to the removal of the subsidy for more selective fishing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113525	But perhaps the rapporteur would have been a little less confused if the rapporteur had not told me what the SF thinks and had instead listened to what I said. We are very pleased with the discard ban. This has been important for SF for a long time, and we are fully ready to see how this can be put into practice. Because that is going to happen very soon, and there are still a number of uncertainties, and we need to put them in place. It is clear that an agreement is an agreement. But what we are discussing today is something that needs to be seen in the very long term. And that's all I'm saying: we don't have a specific estimate of what Danish fishing should look like in 2025 or 2030. What kind of fishing do we want? And there I think it is very clear what the SF wants to promote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113613	Sir. René Christensen with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113616	Thank you for that, President. Now I heard that it was said from up here that what the SF wants is more fishing with nets. It can be fair enough to have the political approach to it. So I would just like to ask: when you have that approach with more nets, then there is the whole big challenge in relation to seals. Is the SF also ready to press for the management plan in relation to seals to be pushed forward so that we get the new management plan faster? Because we can't both have a position that more nets should be fished while we have this great challenge with seals, which is not really being addressed. Will Enhedslisten join with Dansk Folkeparti in forceing the management plan in relation to seals?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113653	The question was for SF, right? Yeah. ) All right, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113700	Now the rapporteur knows that we are negotiating with the Minister, and one of the things we are discussing very much is how we can meet this challenge with the seals, because nobody says that it is not a challenge. We are discussing various seal-proof tools, and some things may not be fully achieved. There are different views on how far we can go with the various tools, and we have also asked for more knowledge about what tools we can use to protect ourselves from the damage caused by seals. It's a process we're still doing. It is clear that there are areas in Denmark where seals pose a problem for the inshore fishermen, and in this negotiation process we need to have more knowledge of what tools can be promoted. That is also why SF would like to give some support and help the coastal fishermen who have the problem: is there anything we can contribute to supporting the use of different tools so that we can get rid of this? Because I agree with the rapporteur that this is a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113804	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113807	I'm so sorry I didn't get to say SF. What I'm hearing here is that SF would like to see more yarn fishing. That's fair enough. Do I also hear SF say that something must be done about seals? I don't quite hear that. I hear what is being said about the fact that we need to develop nets for the fishermen in the long term. But that is not the challenge. The challenge is that seal populations have grown so badly. A management plan has been drawn up that really works. But it actually works so well that at some point we may find ourselves in a situation where seal population is becoming ill because it has simply become too large. There I just ask: when SF has this position on nets, will SF also help to force the management plan on seals that lie, so that we get a stock that can also be handled in relation to more people having to fish with nets? For this is both to the detriment of the fishermen, but it is also to the detriment of the fish and, in fact, in the long run it is also harmful to the seals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113903	Now the rapporteur asked if we were willing to do something about this problem, and I think it is just a question of saying: what are we going to do? And I can also hear from the debates that there are different views as to whether these seal-proof tools actually work. That's what I hear. Some say: Well, there are actually tools you can use that work well. I hear others in the conciliation circle saying: No, it's nonsense; we might as well not spend time on that. SF is very willing to see what we can do to meet this challenge. We have also asked the office if they could give us some more information about these seal-proof tools. And in relation to the management plan, we would also like to look at it. For us, the most important thing is that there is a balance in things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030113953	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114013	Thank you. We in the Liberal Alliance are in favour of L 36, which we are dealing with here, although I also find it a little strange that we are negotiating with the Minister, and then we will take a dive into the Parliamentary Chamber and proceed with the negotiations afterwards. However, we can all make some requests here and tell the general public what our priorities are in relation to what is being negotiated. I should like briefly to mention three points here. First, we think it is very important to invest in new research, in other words research into new technologies, in breeding work, in IT tools, training, etc. as there is also a great potential for growth in the fishing industry. So that part of it we'd like to look at more. Another area where we see very great potential is aquaculture. This is the case, for example. has not been possible to apply for investment grants in 2014. We think there is a backlog there, and we would very much like to look at this in the negotiations, i.e. whether we could compensate in one way or another over the next few years for the fact that it has not been possible to apply for investment grants in 2014. We are sure that in aquaculture there is a great potential, which costs a lot of investment to unfold properly for the benefit of the Danish economy at all. The last thing I would like to mention here is the development activities in the fisheries areas, and I have still not quite learned that it is called FLAGs, but it does, and it is a lot of money that is allocated to it. We think it is too much money and we find it very difficult to see what results have come out of it so far. We have asked questions about this and we have not received an answer yet, but we expect that to happen before the negotiations are concluded. So we are positively involved in the further negotiations. We have some priorities which, of course, we hope we can get through before the negotiations are concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114216	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Charlotte Dyremose as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114227	As the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Lene Espersen, cannot be present, on her behalf I have promised to say the following: the EU's new fisheries development policy is based on a balance between, on the one hand, ensuring a competitive fishing industry and, on the other hand, ensuring sustainable and intelligent growth in an area where resources are scarce. We basically agree with that. That is why we have also indicated that a landing order is sensible, so that the discard problem can be eliminated if, at the same time and in proportion, fishermen are guaranteed the regular quota allocation and the administrative simplifications which are a natural consequence of the landing obligation. The draft law provides for the establishment and management of an aid scheme under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund with a view to achieving the objectives of 2020 on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. The programme is dynamic and flexible and must run over seven years. The Conservative People's Party agrees with the Minister that there must be this flexibility to adapt the programme on an ongoing basis. There may be new knowledge and we can change priorities. It is intended to set up various committees to ensure the effective and targeted implementation of the strategy. We support that too. We agree with the overall objectives and support the overall legislative proposal. However, we will follow up on some of the consultations during the committee's deliberations. During the political discussions with the Minister, we will continue to work to ensure that the Danish programme provides funds for the generational change of fisheries and that a system is put in place to compensate seal and bird damage, and that we ensure that development money is used in the future to produce new tools and regulations to supplement the discard ban. Finally, we are concerned that greater ownership is being created among all the actors involved in biological counselling.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114426	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114433	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the good contributions they have made to today's debate. The draft law on the Maritime and Fisheries Fund is, in all its simplicity, aimed at implementing the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund in Denmark in the period 2014-2020. The draft law replaces the previous Fisheries Development Act, which was to implement the European Fisheries Fund in the period 2007-2013. The fisheries and aquaculture sector is under pressure, both economically and also in relation to the increased consideration to be given to the environment. In addition, the industry must adapt to the biggest reform of the EU's common fisheries policy for many years, including the landing obligation for fishermen. Those challenges must be helped by the support of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which has a European Union co-financing of approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. for the period 2014-2020. The financial contributions from the Maritime and Fisheries Fund must go towards promoting sustainable development in the fisheries and aquaculture sector in Denmark. By doing so, the Fund shall contribute to the implementation of the reform of the EU Common Fisheries Policy and the Integrated Maritime Policy and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. Before the funds in the fund can be used to develop our fisheries, we need to adopt a legal basis that gives legal authority to use the funds in practice, and that, as I said, is what we have gathered here today. The aim of the draft law is to make it possible to use the fund's resources for all the interventions that are possible to support under the EU regulation on the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector is dynamic. Over time, therefore, there may be a need to target funds in the fund for various interventions, so that we continuously ensure the best development. Therefore, the draft law includes all the measures in the EU regulation which may be relevant to Danish fisheries and aquaculture. Both the Minister for Food, i.e. myself, and the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs are authorised by the law to issue rules to ensure effective implementation of the fund, including rules on mandatory digital communication. In other words, this is a framework law, a law that broadly allows us to activate the European legal basis in Danish law so that no legal restriction is made on what the money in the Sea and Fisheries Fund can be used for in advance. However, the question of what measures are to be financed in practice by the Fund is not laid down in this proposal. I have noticed that several rapporteurs have had opinions on this and expressed them here from the platform, and that is only good and good, so the public will also be aware of it, but it is important to emphasise that this is not what the draft law is about. As we know, that is to say the priorities, it is laid down in the Danish marine and fisheries development programme, which is, after all, the result of a political agreement which I hope will be well underway. However, the draft law creates a legal basis for strengthening the growth opportunities for the fishing and aquaculture industry in a reality with ever higher environmental requirements. Once again, I would like to thank you for the comments on the draft law and contributions to the debate that have already been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114757	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114800	Thank you for the Minister's speech. I understand that, of course, there are limits to how specific the Minister can be in relation to the fact that we are sitting and negotiating now, but I nevertheless get a little nervous when I hear that the rapporteurs from the SF and other parties are advocating that we should almost only give these subsidies to the fishing of nets. I would just like the Minister to give me his opinion on support for trawl fishing. Is it not the view of the Minister that, if we are to ensure more selective fishing for trawl fishing, we need to give priority to some aid for that conversion and not just remove the aid from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114847	I'm full of respect for the fact that sir... Thomas Danielsen is trying, but I am not going to express any views on the very priorities of the programme today. What we are talking about is a legislative proposal which alone must give legal authorisation. The debate on the programme is Mr. Thomas Danielsen is a very active part of them, and we take them behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030114913	Sir. Thomas Danielsen. That's it? So thank you to the Minister for Food. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115001	I understand that it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen who is the rapporteur of the Left who is opening the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115003	Thank you. I can then begin by saying that I am not the rapporteur of the Left, but that Mr. Erling Bonnesen, who is the rapporteur for this bill, is not in a position to be here today, so I have promised to read the rapporteur's speech. In the context of the examination of Bill L 38, the Rural Fund Act, the Left is largely in favour of the bill. This is a framework law that ensures the implementation of the national implementation of the EU rural regulation, and the concrete implementation of the aid schemes will be done by means of regulations. The actual allocation of financial resources will be made separately later. We do, however, have some in-depth questions which we would like to clarify during the committee procedure itself. The proposal authorises the Minister for Food and the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development to implement the Rural Fund within its own territory. The law establishes a recommendation committee to examine applications and make recommendations. Advisory committees should also be set up for the purpose of advising the ministers concerned. The bill introduces new support opportunities in relation to the old rural programme, which has generally increased focus on sustainability, environment and climate. The proposal also aims to promote the competitiveness of agriculture, to promote sustainable management of natural resources and climate action, and to develop the economy and society in rural areas. We note that the draft law contains various ministerial powers. We recognise that there will be a need for the Minister for Food and the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs to adapt the support schemes administratively, but we would also point out that if there are plans to make fundamental changes to the support schemes, the Folketing and relevant trade committees should be involved. It should be possible for changes in principle to be discussed in relevant specialist committees in the Folketing. The draft law must therefore ensure the implementation of the EU's rural regulation and, among other things, must: contribute to the implementation of the Food Growth Plan and thus also to the implementation of the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission for a new and targeted nitrogen regulation. Thus, the Left also has some important wishes for the specific distribution of funds for support schemes when they are to be negotiated and agreed later.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115249	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We will reach another rapporteur in the first reading of draft law No L 38, draft law on the rural fund. It's sir. Orla Sea as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115302	Thank you. For the Social Democrats, it is important that it is attractive to live and work and operate in all parts of Denmark, because we are best served with a Denmark that is in balance. It is therefore also gratifying that the government, since it came in, has made a great effort to develop Denmark's rural areas. Because in rural areas, the challenges are different from those in large cities, and therefore it is necessary that we continue to work to create a good framework and conditions for creating life, growth and employment in Denmark's rural areas. Against this background, it is positive that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal that provides the legal basis for the establishment and administration of support schemes under the EU's rural fund, which is the implementation of the EU's rural regulation. A new basis has been adopted for the period 2014-2020. This means, among other things, that there are a number of new aid opportunities compared to the previous ones. The bill will enable the Minister for Food and the Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development to implement the parts of the rural fund for which they are authorised. That's a good thing. The support schemes from the EU Rural Fund will have to be used to support the government's objectives of creating life, growth and employment in rural areas. In concrete terms, this will strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture through support schemes. Similarly, support must be used to ensure the sustainable management of natural resources and climate action, and finally, support will contribute to a more balanced relationship between the country and the city, particularly in terms of maintaining and creating employment opportunities. The bill will be the foundation of the government's rural development policy. The bill will contribute to the implementation of initiatives from the government's growth plan, including a wake-up plan for food. This will mean that we can make a difference to nature and the environment, to climate and to animal welfare. This will mean that we can create innovation, growth and employment in rural areas. This is all a contribution to the green conversion of agriculture, and it is something that benefits rural development. It is absolutely crucial, if Denmark is to be in balance in the future too, that we focus on developing our rural areas. We must strengthen the social, economic and environmental conditions for rural life. The bill is an important step in this direction. Support schemes from the EU's rural fund are of great benefit to the development of our rural areas, and they are of great benefit to Denmark in balance. The Socialists can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115551	Thank you to the rapporteur. Perhaps we can also reach the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, before we take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115604	Thank you, President. The Rural Fund Act is a very exciting proposal. You see that when you get it up here. First of all, it is because it sets the framework for the next seven years. After reading through the bill, I think most people will see this as very positive. These are some good headlines; they are some headlines that allow you to help support rural development, help support agriculture and help support growth and employment. What gets interesting is how to fill out these frameworks, and that's where policy goes in it. That is why, like the rapporteur from the Left, I would like to draw attention to the question of ministerial powers. For the Danish People's Party, this has nothing to do with the colour of the government; it has something to do with the fact that we think that the members of the Danish Parliament should have the opportunity to influence how we translate these funds. On a single point such as environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly agriculture, I believe that everyone can put the V-characters for it, and when you read the comments on it, you see that everyone agrees with it. However, I believe that it can present some challenges when we sit around a table and have to answer the question of how we interpret making an environmentally-friendly and climate-friendly agriculture. That is why we in the Danish People's Party generally believe that ministerial powers may well tend to put the Danish Parliament out of operation, and that is why we also have some questions about it in committee. Otherwise, we will say that when we look at it also at the changes that are there, and also in the areas where the funds, among other things, are being used. We are very positive. One of the points which may not take up so much, but which we will emphasize and ask how we expect to translate, is education. Unfortunately, what we can see at the moment is that in primary agricultural production there is more and more use of foreign cheap labour. What we see here is that there is indeed a possibility that we can help to support that work in the primary sector can become more attractive. We would like some of the rural funds, together with agriculture in a community, to help motivate more young people to choose the agricultural path; choose the way to be part of the life there is; be part of these businesses that are in the countryside. Agriculture is really exciting; agriculture has developed into large enterprises; agriculture is also a company where you have to be involved in constantly developing to keep up with the market, which is why it is of course a pity that we now see that agriculture is in fact having a hard time obtaining feed masters, because young people have not been taken into farming for a long time, and that is why you are suddenly faced with feed masters and others who choose to leave the industry, and then you find it difficult to get new people. So there are a lot of exciting things in the program here. It's a program that lasts for seven years. As it also says, it will be a programme that will probably also change from the approach we have to it now and until 2020, when we are and have implemented the money. So, of course, the Danish People's Party says yes to the proposal, but we have some questions for the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030115911	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I'm here to postpone the meeting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130009	The sitting is resumed. We will continue with the first reading of Bill No. L 38, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Mie Bergmann, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130024	As the other rapporteurs have pointed out with regard to this bill, it is a form of formality but it is an important formality. to get the legal basis in place so that further negotiations can begin. The law provides a framework for the funding for rural development that Denmark receives from the EU in the period 2014-2020. Without this law no money and therefore no investment in our rural areas. Danish agriculture is important for Danish prosperity. Agriculture earns a lot of money for our country every year, and that creates jobs. Danish farmers, compared to many other countries, are generally very good at taking care of the environment, climate and animal welfare. The Radical Left wants agriculture to continue its good development, both in terms of creating jobs, taking care of the environment and nature and, above all, helping to reduce CO2 It requires investment, innovation and development. This is precisely what the rural programme is contributing to. We look forward to working together and will negotiate with the Danish Parliament's parties on how we spend the money best. That is why the Radical Left can support the draft law, which creates the legal framework for the programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130153	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130210	I should like to begin by greeting Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the SF rapporteur on this subject, who had to go to another debate. I always get a little worried when people go to negotiations that I haven't heard about, but nevertheless she should. And what she told me to pass on was that SF is positive about this bill, but has some in-depth questions. Then we'll see what it is. It also covers, in some sense, the Enhedslisten's position on this bill, although it is true, as has been said both during the discussion of this bill and the previous one, that it may well feel a little strange to deal with legislative proposals where a standard response from the Minister, when asked if anything can be changed, is that it cannot, because one has to stick to the text of the regulation. It says a little bit about the fact that when decisions are taken in Denmark to send money down to the EU and then to get them back to some aid schemes, at least part of the impact on how they actually come about is also written off. Some of us have been so fortunate that we in the Committee on European Affairs have had the opportunity to sit and deal with these texts in relation to the mandates given to ministers, but it is clear that the whole political democratic process, which is in Denmark in relation to a regulation adopted in the European Union, cannot, at least to the same extent, meet the standards that we have in law-making. And that is why we are in a rather curious situation, that we have a rather opaque process in which the important decisions are taken, and then we have a very, very thorough and transparent process in which everything is settled. I do not think that is entirely satisfactory, but it is such a general view about the European Union and regulations. In relation to this, I think this is true in some areas where, at least in the committee's work, we would like to work on some issues to find out what the consequences are of this being a regulation in which nothing can be changed. The first and it is from some of the consultation answers that it is in relation to a proposal that comes from Agriculture & Food, asking whether it would not be appropriate to open up the possibility of providing support in cases of climate adjustment, i.e. making land available, accepting that it is being flooded, and thus perhaps solving some challenges in relation to climate change for nearby towns and villages, etc. If you like me come from North Jutland, you would say that it is not necessarily just a theoretical consideration, but can be a really relevant consideration. In any case, we will continue to try to find out what this means in concrete terms when it is rejected, with reference to the fact that the provision is a representation of the text of the regulation and cannot be changed. So what does that mean in concrete terms? Does this also mean that it is something that cannot be supported? The second is from the Danish Organic Association and is about the fact that in Denmark we have agreed that in some contexts it might be sensible to develop ecology with additional requirements which bring ecology closer to objectives and principles and maintain the relevance of production to the conscious consumer, so that in Denmark we could have rules that were complementary to the rules of the Organic Regulation to the extent that these are issues not covered by the rules of the Organic Regulation. And that is where Ecological Landsforening says that they see it as a very important thing, but the prerequisite for it to be exploited is that there are also some support schemes that can compensate for the extra costs or less revenue that you have, as a result of using it, that you can make particularly tough rules in Denmark that you exploit and use them. In this context, I also think it might be interesting to know to what extent, although one may not then be able to change the legislative text in the interests of the supremacy of the regulation, one can actually say that this is something that we would like to support in a development that we would like to promote. We will be interested in this in future work. There are also a few other proposals in the consultation answers which we consider to be unfortunately rejected, or, to put it bluntly, seem to have to be rejected with reference to the regulation. This is a proposal from the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC), which talks about measures to improve working conditions, which could also be part of what it might be sensible to go in and give some kind of support for. And the Danish Federation of Hunters writes something about nature-friendly agriculture. All in all, we actually think that what is really annoying here is that there is a system that is sensible in many areas and also contains some improvements in relation to the rules that have been in the past, but on the other hand the process becomes such that small adjustments, which could be really sensible in terms of some objectives we have in Denmark, seemingly become almost impossible because of the fact that this is a regulation of the European Union. I know, of course, that this is the price you pay, some would say, in order to have access to EU support schemes, but you just have to be aware that the support schemes are funded by taxpayers around the EU countries, including Denmark. So it is a question of renouncing some influence, and I think that is perhaps a little too bad. We are going to ask some questions about this and possibly venture into the interesting experiment to make amendments to a law which is an attempt to reproduce a regulation in order to test whether there are any options. But we are in the main in favour of the draft law if we see it as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130724	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130740	After all, this bill is being tabled to lay the foundations for the government to implement EU rural policy. You often get sucked into the fact that this is EU stuff and that we have to implement it. And of course we must, because we have committed ourselves to that. On the other hand, I also think it is important to take a critical view of this, even if it is an EU substance. That's one thing. The second point is that I would like to stress that the Liberal Alliance is, as a starting point, against subsidies of every kind, including for business and also for agriculture. And it is very difficult to keep that tab high when we invent one aid scheme after another. What lies ahead of us here, we shall be asking questions about during the committee procedure, as several of the other rapporteurs have said. In general terms, it is our view that the legislative proposal aims to implement an EU legal obligation and that, on that basis, it should not actually be removed from the objectives and prerequisites of the original EU act. Then comes the very important point about what I sometimes think has become a bad habit, namely that the good minister is given far too many powers. It is a bad thing, and it is in that sense, no matter what the colour of government is, the granting of powers to ministers is something that does not promote transparency and does not promote involvement. So we think that the stakeholders in this area should have a decisive competence to influence the distribution of funds as well, rather than the minister being given this power as an authorisation. But, of course, we will enter into the discussion along the way in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130938	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030130944	Thank you. As a starting point, we can support the proposal and have also taken note of the increased focus on the environment, climate and sustainability, which is of course very important to have as one leg when the other leg is growth and must be. Having said that, I would just like to say something about exactly the same thing that Mrs Bock also mentioned, namely that there is a very broad ministerial authority in this draft law. It may be that for various reasons it is necessary to do so, but I would like to express my hope and wish from the platform that the Minister will indicate that there will be great discretion not only on his part but also on the part of his colleague, but also on the part of the parliamentary parties, if the authorisation is to be used for anything other than what is in such a general formal framework. This is, of course, one of the things we can also discuss in committee, i.e. what the parties expect of what this authority is being used for, but it is clear that it would be nice and reassuring to have received a statement from the Minister. Now I also hope that the Minister will be able to give that statement on behalf of his colleague, the rural minister, so that we have a consensus that this ministerial power should be used with great discretion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131124	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is the Minister of Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131133	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good input. The draft law on the Rural Fund is, in all its simplicity, aimed at creating the legal basis for the implementation of the Government's rural programme for the period 2014-2020 through funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The draft law replaces the previous Rural Act, which was to implement the Rural Fund in the period 2007-2013. The bill is intended to support the implementation of government policy in the fields of nature and environment, climate, ecology, animal welfare, innovation and growth and employment in agriculture and rural areas. The draft law will also contribute to the implementation of a number of recommendations and initiatives in the government's growth plans and strategies. This applies, among other things, to: The Government's Food and Environment Action Plan and follow-up to recommendations from the Nature and Agriculture Commission as well as the Government's ecological action plan. The Act is necessary in order to be able to use the funds in the Rural Fund in the Danish rural programme for the period 2014-2020. The draft law provides for a broad authorisation for the law to include the political desires for interventions and the changes to the rural programme that will be necessary during the programme period as a result, for example, of: new priorities for rural development funds. This means that many of the powers that have been called into question by the various authors are, of course, some that are given in order to be able to make political agreements technically and also to carry them out without it being a question of having to go in and make a new amendment to the law just to get it in place. Having said that, I would, of course, like to hear if there are quite specific elements in the legislation in relation to authorisation, which the rapporteurs are insecure about. Therefore, it is intended that the proposal should allow for the implementation of all measures in the rural regulation which may be or may be relevant to implement in Denmark. The law therefore empowers both the Minister for Food and the Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs to issue rules to ensure effective implementation of the Rural Fund, including rules on mandatory digital communication. The rural development programme must, overall, promote the competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture. Specifically, the rural programme finances a number of activities through support schemes targeted at nature and the environment, ecology, growth and competitiveness, as well as general rural development. For many years, the programme has supported a green transition in agriculture through e.g.: support for environmentally friendly technologies, the environmentally friendly operation of agricultural land and the conversion to ecology. Actions under the rural programme shall also contribute to promoting rural growth and development, as well as to strengthening local employment. The priorities for 2014 and 2015 are set out in the policy agreement on the rural development programme concluded between the Government, the Left and the Conservative People's Party in December 2013. With the agreement, we have defined the actions to be supported by the rural programme in 2014 and 2015. The programme includes interventions for an average of 1.225 million. kr. annual. Later this year we will have to decide on the content of the rural programme for the rest of the programme period, and we will need a political agreement on the priority of funds. It also includes just over 2 billion. DKK transferred from direct support to the rural programme by 2020, i.e. through the flexibility scheme. All in all, I believe that the draft law provides a good basis for the implementation of government policy in the fields of nature and the environment, climate, ecology, animal welfare, innovation and growth and employment in agriculture and rural areas. I look forward to the further work of the Parliamentary Food Committee, where there will be an opportunity to discuss in more detail the individual parts of the proposal, including the concerns expressed by various Members today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131536	Thank you, Minister. There's a questioner, and that's sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131541	Thank you. I only have two questions. The first is that we are again writing that digital communication is compulsory; we have written that in the past for agriculture. So I would just like to know whether the Minister does not agree that, unfortunately, when it comes to rural areas, we are faced in several places with the challenge that, when farmers have to send in their injection accounts, it often and often turns out that it is too big to send on the old copper grid. I would therefore like to ask if the Minister, when he writes again that digital communications are compulsory, could not also be involved in pushing other parts of the government to provide us with a better infrastructure when we want to have digital communication so badly; that is what the Danish People's Party wants, but it is a little strange that we are dragging it down on a profession without the infrastructure being in order. It is actually just a question to the Minister whether the Minister will help to push and do so through the channels that the Minister has the opportunity to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131629	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131632	I'm not quite sure that I understood all the elements of Mr. René Christensen's question. But at the overall level I can confirm this and say yes to the fact that I would like to work to ensure that this is done as smoothly as possible, and no to the next one; I do not think it is fair that demands are made, for example. a farmer, if not the digital infrastructure to be able to meet those requirements is in place. So, yes, it is of course a high priority to put it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131656	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131659	After all, it is important that as many ministers as possible remember to say this every time you sit in different meetings and elsewhere. Another thing: the Minister says that we should not be so afraid of these ministerial powers. I also agree with the Minister that it can be very, very heavy if there are to be legislative changes every time you have to make changes, especially with a piece of paper like this, which is dynamic and has to last for seven years. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister is prepared to draw up a text stating that when these changes take place, the respective committees will also be involved in the decisions to be taken, in other words, in the fact that a ministerial authorisation will allow the legislation to be amended without it having to be in the Parliamentary Assembly, but that the committees will nevertheless be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131745	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131747	I think we should go the other way around, so the questioner and others who have expressed concern may have to be a little more specific. I do not think it can be said, because I do not think it should be interpreted in such a way that you are generally opposed to ministerial powers. So maybe you could be a little more specific about how precise it is and in which case it is, and then we'll have to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131807	Thank you, Minister. I'm just saying, you don't talk straight, you just don't. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131842	The debate is open, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030131901	Thank you. When the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen, even if he is not here to deal with this bill, I have promised Mr. Erling Bonnesen to read the speech. In connection with the examination of Bill No. L 37, Draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Property, the Left will support the bill, which is a follow-up to the agreement on the Growth Plan for Food, which was concluded back in April 2014 between the government parties, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. The draft law abolishes the previous provision that, irrespective of the ownership interest, it must be a farmer who has the control of the company, and the draft law extends the circle of companies which can acquire agricultural property without authorisation. The proposal also means that it will be possible, without permission, to rent less land than 1000 m2 from an agricultural property for garden purposes, and the proposal provides a legal basis for establishing rules on digital communication. The bill will expand ownership of agriculture and thus provide more and better opportunities to make generational changes and new investments in the industry. It is emphasized that it is not a question of abolishing the property itself, but that it will only be easier for farmers to have other forms of ownership in addition to the property itself. So it is the farmer's free choice whether he wants to drive with himself or choose the option of driving with company. In this way, farmers will be given more opportunities to adapt as they please. Given that buying and new investments in the agricultural industry today cost a lot of millions of kroner, it is important that there are more strings to be played on. We think that the well-known system of investment through credit associations and banks is good, but we also think that it is very good to open up to, for example. pension companies as co-players with new investments, new funding opportunities, by entering into different forms of ownership. For farmers, the use of pension fund models offers several different combinations, for example. also know that agreements can be included in contracts whereby farmers can buy their way out of the pension fund within an agreed period of time, if they so wish. The Left supports this bill, but will probably ask a number of more detailed questions during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132142	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132153	The government has consistently pursued a line to ensure growth in Danish food production. This presupposes an active and forward-looking agricultural industry with the right conditions. The Government set up the Nature and Agriculture Commission to get a professionally qualified proposal on how to reconcile the desire for growth in the food sector with regard to nature and our environment. The Nature and Agriculture Commission has presented a strong report on these issues, where the conclusion is that it is possible to combine growth with sustainability in relation to nature. However, the prerequisite is that we do the right thing, create the right framework and provide the right incentives for the professions. In the last few decades alone, the structural development of Danish agriculture has been extremely rapid. An average farm today is worth 40 million. kr. and covers 200 ha. In addition, the technological developments that have taken place at the speed of lightning since the gray Ferguson went his victory in agriculture. Training for agriculture has increased in time and volume, which means that young people are well placed to enter the agricultural sector. The results of this development have certainly not been missed. Danish agriculture is efficient and productive so productive that the necessary balances in relation to the nature of agriculture as a prerequisite are sometimes difficult to comply with. Common to the factors outlined here is that continuing development requires opportunities for investment in education, agriculture and the necessary and relevant technologies. These investments must be made in the long shadows of the financial crisis, which was triggered by irresponsibility and influenced the desire to invest in the future. I think that all farmers can talk about this: it has become more difficult to borrow money for investment, and the traditional system of obtaining investment, mortgage and banks combined with own resources is partly underturned. In this situation it would be irresponsible of the government and the Folketing not to act, and there it is so the government has taken an initiative, and even broad support has been secured for the first action of L 37 today. The bill contains elements that will facilitate access to responsible loan capital that can ensure that Danish agriculture is still at a high and effective level. The draft law will enable companies including pension funds to invest in agriculture. The obstacles are eliminated and agriculture is treated in the same way as other industries in terms of ownership and management structures and operating contracts. Is that a goodbye to the jet? No, it's by no means. Young people's way into the profession and the opportunity to use their education, knowledge and entrepreneurship will be significantly improved with the new conditions and, of course, it will still be possible to maintain their own. We're just getting more strings to play. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill and will openly engage in discussions on how the law is implemented in its final form; including we will also include consultation responses and other interesting papers for the bill. I have to say that there are, among other things: A proposal has been made to change the terms of the contract in order to allow the seller to enter into the trade for the re-establishment of a young farmer. This seems to us to be an interesting proposal which we would very much like to share in discussing constructively in the Folketing and subsequent committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. René Christensen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132559	Thank you, President. After all, L 37 is a consequence of the growth plan for food. This is one of the initiatives planned for us to grow in the area of food. It is a proposal which is based on the fact that Danish agriculture has developed in a direction where we can see that farms are getting bigger and bigger. We get fewer units, and thus we also get far, much higher sales prices. It has also made it difficult for the industry to obtain funding. That is why we were also with the first time we liberalised the agricultural law so that companies could enter. What then lies here is that you open up further how ownership is supposed to be. It is the case that we are now dispensing from the rule that it must always be an agricultural person who sits at the end of the table. We certainly do not think that this goes beyond quality in any way. We don't think this is an attack on the self. This is an additional opportunity on the palette to create funding for the greater and greater use that we see. That is why, of course, we welcome it. One thing we must say, however, that we are a little sceptical about, and that is part of the agreement, is that priority should be abolished. When you look at how many people use it, you see that not many people have chosen to use this option. But what we think we are going to see is that some of the farms that will be traded will get bigger, also because this form of company will be possible. That is why we are a little afraid that the good story of fruit growers who make organic apples and so on. etc., will have difficulty entering the market and will have the opportunity to expand the store so that it can be sustainable. I would therefore like to say from the platform to the conciliation parties of the agreement that I hope we will have the opportunity to discuss whether the decision we made when we made the agreement is the right one. Are we sure that this opportunity will not be needed in the future? I am aware that this is a system that has not been used much, but the question is whether, in relation to what we are doing now, it might become a system that will be able to use in the future. The Danish People's Party looks forward to the negotiations and hopes that we can have a good dialogue, also on the proposal that came from Mr. Orla Hav, about pledges. We had a good appearance in the Food Committee and I certainly think that this is something we should also discuss in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132836	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132840	It's just in relation to sir. René Christensen and, incidentally, others' remarks that this does not mean that the jet itself disappears; it just means that there is another possibility. But is it not the intention of this bill that there should be substantial investment in Danish agriculture and that these large-scale investments, if they come, will lead to a very large proportion of Danish agriculture no longer being under the regime that one might call self-owned but owned by others? The aim of this proposal is to ensure that new capital is created, and that capital means that the ownership of Danish agriculture is changed dramatically if the proposal is to lead to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132916	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132918	You can discuss what the jet looks like today. Unfortunately, we often hear that farmers and their forms of production are perhaps more governed by their bank advisers than they are controlled by themselves. What we really want to do with this is also in relation to the fact that the farm can stay on family hands, one can say that there can be shifts between father and son or father and daughter, and so it is difficult with the units we have today, with a three-digit million dollars, to get that funding. Here there will be a possibility of obtaining funding in a different way. It is not therefore said that this is the way to choose, but it is an option on the palette. But what we see today is really that some of the uses have become so large that it is incredibly difficult to have it in that form of ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030132958	Thank you. Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133001	I just think you have to decide whether this is something that matters or it doesn't matter. I understand, sir. René Christensen, that what he sees in the future is that Danish farmers are not so that that is the way, Mr. René Christensen will continue his own business from generation to generation, that is to say to become the manager of a fund, under the supremacy of the same fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133034	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133037	What I think is very important to look at in this case is that with the prices at which Danish agricultural land is traded and with the size that Danish farms have received, it is very, very difficult to obtain capital of that magnitude in private hands. That is why it is now being opened up that you can also bring in pension funds and others who, of course, will also have an interest in this use coming to a profit. But I also think that all farmers have a goal that when you are a business owner you are, and you are, when you are a farmer you would of course like to have black numbers on the bottom line. We do not believe that this will mean that all use will now be owned by pension funds in the future; this will be an opportunity to raise capital so that we can still grow our good Danish land.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133120	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Miebergmann, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133126	Over the last five to ten years, agricultural holdings have become very, very large, and this means that it takes a quite large loan and a large investment to acquire a farm. We are seeing and we are hearing about increasing problems in obtaining capital in agriculture. In addition, agriculture in Denmark is very, very indebted. We need to see whether we can politically help to raise new capital for agriculture, and this is what we are doing with this law. The legal obstacles for companies, such as pension funds, to take over holdings, are removed by this law. We support this because the development of farm size makes it necessary to rethink and raise capital to further develop agriculture. The Radical Left can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133223	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133234	Unfortunately, the usual SF rapporteur in this area is prevented from meeting, and in the internal lottery I was the one who won the prize, and that is why I represent the party. SF is not included in the growth agreement from spring, among other things. because the agreement leads to environmental setbacks resulting from the halving of peripheral areas and the removal of post-crop requirements in a number of places. This bill, however, can be supported by SF, among others. because it increases the opportunities for capital to be added to the agricultural industry. This will make it easier for young farmers to lease land and agriculture because they do not have to raise all the necessary capital themselves. As we see it, this is a supplement to the jet itself, which is not being abolished; it is just no longer a requirement. SF can also see with satisfaction that it follows the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133332	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133338	I find it a little disappointing that the parties supporting this bill are not swinging a little more with the tab. This is a bill that, if it succeeds, will revolutionise the development of Danish agriculture so that we can further speed up centralisation, so that what has so far been described as a law of nature, namely that small things become large, will in the future become much larger. At the same time, it will also happen that what you so far called self-owning will be something you can look at on selected farms. It may even be the case that there will be a special arrangement so that we can support it because it must be preserved for historical reasons. But of course this requires that in practice this bill is of any importance, and it is not essential that young farmers lack money for investment, because they do so; it is crucial that some of the large concentration of capital want to go in and invest here because they consider that they can make money. I guess that last one's pretty doubtful. However, if this happened, it would mean that the jet itself would be a historical reminiscent of Danish agriculture. And there I think that those who are in favour of this should swing a little with the tab, because I guess you're putting this bill forward because you think it's going to have an effect. It is also a little remarkable because it is at least a change and revolution that is being carried out without the great rejoicing. I note in the hearings that the Financial Council thinks it is a very good idea for you to have further opportunities to invest your money. There's nothing to say about that. It can also be seen that there is an exceptionally high degree of consensus among free farmers, Farmers' Youth, Agriculture & Food, Organic Landsforening, that this is certainly not a solution and that it will, moreover, give rise to a number of difficulties and problems in the future in terms of allowing farmers to maintain control over the farms they currently own. It is also a little exciting, I think, that one of the reasons for introducing it here is that there is a lack of more professional management in agriculture. Then they got it, Agriculture & Food and Sustainable Agriculture. Well, that's what it takes. We need to get some professionals to manage Danish agricultural production. It should then come from the financial sector, I can understand, which has, of course, distinguished itself by a unique degree of professionalism in recent years at least when it comes to ensuring its own survival. The fact is that it is true that Danish agriculture is in a fundamental crisis which calls for major changes to be made. There is no doubt about that. And it is also very likely that, as part of the process of change that Danish agriculture should embark on, we will also need some forms of ownership which will enable farmers, young farmers, to run a farm without having to take very large amounts of loans. The old discussion about a land-use fund, which is also being pulled out of the Nature and Agriculture Commission's report, is one of the elements on how to ensure that some money is actually invested in this area, so that young farmers can get to farming. After all, it is a question of whether the only solution to provide capital for an area is to ensure that we try to compete to attract the big capital, which always goes to the place where there is the most money to earn, or whether we also have to go other ways at times. Another discussion, which it could indeed be true to travel, is whether the development so far has been such that it is absolutely safe and convincing that greater and greater use is the way forward, so that the ultimate happiness occurs when one pension fund owns the agriculture that is in Denmark. No, I don't think so; nor is there any evidence that the economic income follows that with: the greater, the better. I believe that a core of a change in Danish agriculture, which would also contain a few elements of revolution, even though it is perhaps in reality not as much as it would otherwise do, is the question of really getting to grips with the transformation of Danish food production and agricultural production, which ensures that the value of what is produced is maximized and thus involves a change in which much more emphasis is placed on agricultural production, which is in balance with nature and the environment, which is also in balance with proper animal welfare requirements and which makes it a competitive parameter for Danish agriculture. I think that would be a much more favourable solution. That would be what could really benefit the long-term opportunities. When you say that it will not benefit in the long term, you could of course hope that the capital funds, because they would have the greatest possible profit, would require these changes. I think, unfortunately, that it has to be said that capital funds and others who invest here have a relatively short-term desire to make money and that therefore we cannot expect long-term considerations. So the Enhedslisten, like a large number of organisations like Sustainable Agriculture, Agriculture & Food, Rural Youth and Organic Landsforening, will reject this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133853	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Bock, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030133859	Thank you. The bill here, L 37, is, after all, a follow-up to the 2014 Food Growth Plan agreement, which is why it is a conciliation substance. I would like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance basically support moving in a direction in which we will regulate agriculture in the same way as we regulate businesses. So the liberalisation that has been proposed here also follows the recommendations contained in both the Nature and Agriculture Commission's report and in the Food Growth Team's report, and we think this is positive. At the same time, however, I would also like to say that it is very important that this should be followed up, Mr President. René Christensen of the Danish People's Party said that it is precisely an opportunity to secure a new capital injection, but not an obstacle to the preservation of the jet itself. And I think we should just have an open debate on this in committee, because I clearly sense that there is a broad political interest in ensuring that we do not opt out, that there is an option and thereby force it in a particular direction. I sense a broad interest in this, and I look forward to having the discussion in committee. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that although this is a step in the right direction, in other words in the form of a new regulation of the agricultural industry, there are a number of other points that need to be followed up. It is about the basic framework conditions for agriculture and it is about the basic way to regulate. We need to have a look at inheritance taxes, we need to have a look at taxation conditions, we need to have a look at fertilization rules, we need to have a look at the after-crops, and we need to have a look at the fact that basically agriculture will also be regulated away from input management and more towards output management. And if you do not see all these things in a context, it is what we are going to jump from tue and actually put agriculture in an even tighter straitjacket than the one that agriculture is in today. So this is a stepping stone we jump on. We need to discuss in concrete terms what the final wording should be like, but I see it only as a tiny touch in relation to the whole paradigm shift that is clearly needed when we talk about the regulation of Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's just one question from Mr. Per Clausen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134144	It is because Mrs Mette Bock said that she felt that in the work of the committee we should discuss how we could ensure that this did not lead to the abolition of the jet itself. I would just like to ask Mrs Mette Bock whether I should understand the fact that the Liberal Alliance, like the Enhedslisten, thinks it reasonable to ensure that there is some form of legal regulation in this area which means that we cannot risk that this will lead to the abolition of the jet itself. Mrs Mette Bock is right that, as it is now, there is no legislation to prevent it from having exactly the consequence that everyone says they do not want it to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134216	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134221	Now, sir. Per Clausen is much more experienced in parliamentary work than I am. However, I would like to say that my intuition immediately tells me that it is very difficult to legislate in a way so as to foresee all sorts of terrible things that can happen in the future. What I am trying to say is that I sense a broad political consensus that the business itself is important and that it must continue to be an opportunity, just as it is in the ordinary industry, one can say where it is possible to create company formations and there is a possibility that you can own your own business. I just think that we should sit around the table and try to find out how we can ensure this when we all agree that the very thing has a value, but that there is a need for greater capital injection in agriculture, and the liberalisation that is being proposed here can also be a step in this direction, without necessarily leading to the disappearance of the business itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134309	Thank you. Sir. Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134313	I believe that Mrs Mette Bock can succeed in getting a contribution from a report that all parties in the Folketing think that ownership itself is very good. I just want to ask Mrs. Mette Bock what influence she thinks it's gonna get out of the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134330	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134334	What effect does it have in reality? But it is also a question of how to interpret the law if one says in a contribution to the report that there is in fact a broad consensus that the very thing should remain an option in Danish agriculture. So I certainly hope so. Otherwise, we must not make reports and contributions from the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134349	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134355	Thank you. We, too, are part of the food growth plan, where this is one of the proposals that should help to ensure more opportunities to have capital in agriculture, to expand the circle of companies that can own agriculture, to give more owners, to provide more capital. It's necessary. There is no doubt about this, and you can also hear from the discussion here that this is because the individual farmer owns his own farm and grows a little potatoes and a little beet and has a few pigs and some cows and a cereal field and something like that was really nice. It is also gone for those who have hobby farming, but we also have to recognise that we live in a world where farming is a business. And we need it to be in the future too. We need there to be capital in the farms. Agriculture is a very important export industry; agriculture provides a great many jobs, not only in agriculture, but also in jobs created by the many products produced in agriculture. Agriculture is therefore really, really important and an important part of our community wheel driving around. If there is also to be agriculture in the future, if there are also to be companies in the form of, for example: In other words, in what we sometimes call the outermost regions, there must also be capital for it. With regard to the exchange that was just here, we also think it is very important that there is room for self-sufficiency, that there is room for farming to continue to be done in different ways, at different levels and in different types of company. As was suggested earlier, we are also fully committed to discussing whether we should give the priority a second round in the committee's work. This is a settlement. We have an agreement, we agree, we support it, of course, but that does not change the fact that when we have some common intentions about it, several other rapporteurs have also mentioned where this is going to lead, we will, of course, have a constructive discussion in the conciliation circle and make sure that it lands as close as possible to what we had imagined. If it takes small adjustments, we'll make them, and I hope we can do that in a good spirit. It was true for virtue a little bit fast when we had to make the settlement in its time, so it would be good if we spent some time going down in detail this time. I think it would also suit the final result that we will all have some time to go through the details thoroughly. If we all show the will to do so, we may even be able to make something even better of it. But, overall, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134659	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030134708	Firstly, I would like to thank you for the many good speeches. Both the Nature and Agriculture Commission and the Food Growth Team as well as the Cattle Farm Task Force have recommended a modernisation of the Agricultural Act, and in the political follow-up to the Food Growth Plan a broad agreement has been reached on the amendment of the Agricultural Act between the Government and the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. There is a serious need to do something to improve the economic situation in agriculture, and here the agricultural law comes into play, because the agricultural law now contains barriers which make it difficult for investors to have a full influence on their investment in agricultural property, and this helps to hamper the provision of capital for a needy profession. There is therefore a need to modernise the agricultural law so that it becomes more attractive to invest in agriculture. It is about removing restrictions that do not exist in other professions today. This improves the ability of companies to purchase agricultural property to the same extent as other types of property where investors and owners have full influence on how the business is run. It has been necessary to determine the types of business that can acquire agricultural property without authorisation and it is therefore proposed that it be the regulated capital companies that are to be able to acquire agricultural property without authorisation, and pension funds and investment funds should also be able to acquire agricultural property without authorisation. In relation to the preferential rules, the rules for the acquisition of agricultural property by companies are proposed to be relaxed so that ownership is no longer linked to a particular person. There is therefore no longer any basis for having rules of preference for complementary land for neighbours. The rules of preference could be avoided immediately by setting up a new company which would then buy the property. In practice, the existing preferential rules have not been very important because few farmers have been given land through these rules and therefore the rules on preference are proposed to be abolished. I also note that up to a number of rapporteurs have raised certain concerns, so, despite the fact that it is quite clear in the agreement that they should be lifted, they should not be lifted with certain conditions or other, but we must, of course, remove the sentence to see whether we can meet some of the concerns that various rapporteurs have had. In relation to the property, I would say that the property itself has been quite protected by the agricultural law as the virtually only form of ownership in Danish agriculture, but the property itself is not necessarily the best form of ownership for all farms and for all farmers. Very large farms will often be able to be organized in company form. So we hold on to the jet itself, but we allow other forms of company to come into play as well. In addition, we will allow private, schools and communities to rent a small area on an agricultural property for gardening. In this way, we will strengthen the framework conditions for those who want to produce their own vegetables in the countryside. In conclusion, with the modernisation of the agricultural legislation, we will create better opportunities to attract capital to Danish agriculture, and it is up to the industry and investors to take advantage of the expanded opportunities, and therefore it is not possible for me to confirm or deny whether Mr. Per Clausen is right that this might be a revolution in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135051	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen for a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135055	Thank you for that and, in particular, thank you to the Minister. As the Minister says very clearly, it is part of the agreement that priority must cease, but what has made me reflect on it is what we say so often, and I think I can also take the Minister to account for that, namely that we would like to see this good story in rural areas: we would like to see some produce high-quality products. We would like to see more organic crops. Fruit growers in particular are some of those who have some small areas and who may need to buy a little extra in order to have the opportunity to expand their farm so that they can also live on it. So I would just like to thank the Minister for the fact that, although an agreement has been made which is very, very clear, and I agree with the Minister on this, we in the Folketing can also show that we are pragmatic, and then we will have to see if we can find each other at a later stage. Otherwise, of course, the Danish People's Party is in favour of the agreements we have entered into. But thanks for the outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135151	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135154	You're welcome. Just the small clarification that this is not just about the fact that it is a right that has not been used very often. It is also about the fact that with the changes we are now making, it will be very easy to bypass those rules if you want to. That is why it can be, not indifferent, but at least less significant. But as I said, let's take a closer look.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135219	Thank you. And then it's sir. Per Clausen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135223	I therefore agree with the Minister that if you first implement such liberalisation and then try to prevent it from going through in some smaller areas, you will quickly emerge from something very extensive archaic. But you have to try to find out. I would like to ask the food miner one thing: is this not the purpose of this, that a great deal of capital should be provided for agriculture, and that it should therefore be assumed that a very large part of the Danish agricultural area will be subject to the new forms of ownership?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135254	It is not the case that we in Denmark cannot and will not manage the flows of private investment funds that go to any kind of industry nor to agriculture. Therefore, by its very nature, we cannot know what the outcome of this will be. However, what we can do, of course, is to comply with the clear recommendations that have been made from various quarters.I started my speech by mentioning them... about what we can do to open up new capital. That's what we've done. I agree with what has been said about the fact that ownership has many advantages. But it is not always the right option. There are also other forms of company that can be good. I'd like to say to Mr. Per Mrs Clausen, I understand that the Enhedslisten can be ideologically opposed to liberalising and so on. But I do not really understand that one can be ideologically opposed to the fact that other forms of company than equal ownership can be beneficial. Of course it can. That's, for example. beneficial that a pension company can also go in and invest in food production.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135404	Sir. Per Clausen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135407	I also think it is an unusual situation that it is Enhedslisten who defends in practice the property while all other parties are willing to sell it. I think that is a strange situation too. But you shouldn't let yourself be beaten by getting into weird situations. I've tried that before. I would just like to ask the Minister for Food: is it not the case that there is an expectation that this will give agricultural capital to a reasonable extent and it is therefore to be expected that the new forms of property will be relatively widespread in Danish agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135442	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135445	Of course, we have an expectation that it will help. Otherwise, there was no reason to do this. We do not have precise forecasts of how much, nor do we necessarily have precise figures of what size of holdings and properties this is going to be targeted at. In other words, it is produced as if it is almost a law of nature that it will be the largest and centralisation etc. It's far from safe. After all, it is also medium-sized holdings which are experiencing quite a difficult situation, where it may be possible to see opportunities for new forms of capital. I don't think I can get any closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135521	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135546	The debate is open, and first it is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135557	In the Left, we work to give the elderly a rich everyday life of dignity and respect, and that is why we in the Left will also work to ensure that the elderly can have a life in which they themselves influence the organisation of their daily lives. We do not believe that care for the elderly should be provided in meters. Instead, care for the elderly must be individually organised so that citizens who need help also meet their needs. The government has now come up with a bill on the future of home help, and that is what we are discussing today. According to the bill, a municipality must offer a citizen a rehabilitation course if it is considered that the process can improve the citizen's ability to function, and then the municipality must then assess the citizen's need for home help. This bill also includes an obligation on the municipality to maintain individual targets for home help for the individual citizen, and also abolishing the distinction between temporary and permanent personal and practical assistance, and abolishing the contact scheme. The Left is thus in favour of rehabilitation, because the purpose of this is to increase the quality of life of the individual through the temporary help that can be enjoyed and the support that is provided by training while someone is present, and to come back and be able to function in everyday life and cope with everyday life again. But what does this really mean about rehabilitation? In short, it is a question of training everyday activities with the home care staff and thus building up the energy and power to handle the tasks themselves. When you look beyond the Danish map, you can see that 92 municipalities out of 98 are working on this today. And from Odense, for example, there are very good experiences. They offer training as help, as a course, and they do so early per year. automatic. Now they give the necessary help that is needed, and there is only satisfaction to be traced. That is fair, and it is therefore good and clear Left policy, because the citizen is once again able to fend for himself and has as much influence as possible on his or her own everyday life. One cannot help but wonder why it is still necessary to do some legislative work, when today, out of 98 possible, we have 92 municipalities that are doing so systematically today. And where do I see a problem? Yes, I do that on the issue of free elections. I am concerned that this bill does not propose that the rehabilitation programmes to be carried out under Section 83 A should not be included in the free choice of supplier. A year ago, we made a law that allowed you to choose a private provider to provide the home help you need. With this, it is required that it is the municipality that comes and does the rehabilitation. I know that there have been many debates politically, and there are those in the Left in particular. There is no need for many guests who are there to help with something through a home. There is a need for it to be a single or a few and that it is not a railway station. So this bill does not allow a private supplier to take care of the rehabilitation while the person or firm in question also supplies home help. This is a problem, and I therefore need to have an in-depth examination of the committee before the Left clearly reports what we can actually say in our position on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030135951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140000	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I have to say that the rapporteur's report surprises me, not the fact that the Left is in favour of this so-called free choice, because I am not surprised. But when I think about how the rapporteur of the Left felt, not Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen, but Mr Christiansen. Eyvind Vesselbo received this agreement that is behind this bill, so it was a completely different criticism that was directed at the bill. It was a criticism that was made of something else. I would just like to quote Mr. Eyvind Vesselbo from Politiken on 19 June: It is a downgrading of the elderly. It is a system of thinking beyond what I had the imagination to imagine a radical minister might think of. I am deeply offended that that is now the requirement. • The demand to which the rapporteur refers is, of course, the demand that the elderly should so what has become of the criticism of the Left? Does the current rapporteur of the Left share the view that Mr. Eyvind Vesselbo stated, which was why the Left was not included in the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140104	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140107	That was not the only reason. It was also the free choice. I do not have an answer as to how far the older person is expected to go before he or she finds that this is not the case, so that he or she cannot be rehabilitated. How did the box really come to mind? There is no answer to that. So it's actually very nicely in line with that, sir. Eyvind Vesselbo said at the time. I am very concerned, and yet I have a positive thought when I see what one has been able to do in Odense, and I can use that as an example. However, I do not have a time frame, and these are some of the things I need to be bored out before I can state clearly what the Left has to say on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140151	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140153	Thank you. Well, I am so glad that the rapporteur does not, in any case, directly disapprove of Mr Beazley's report. Eyvind Vesselbo's announcement, for that is the core issue that Enhedslisten sees in the bill, namely where the right of the elderly to self-determination is going to be in this. That is why I have a very specific question for the rapporteur. The Elders Case has done a great deal of work on this, among other things. sent us all a letter with some proposals for concrete amendments to the bill, and one of them says this: The municipality should not be able to refuse home help on the grounds that the citizen refuses to participate in rehabilitation programmes. If that text were to come in, it would guarantee the right of the elderly to self-determination in relation to these processes. I would then like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Left will support the inclusion of such an amendment, because at least the Enhedslisten intends to put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140243	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140244	The Left is going to ask the question in committee and then we will see what the answers will be and then we will take the committee reading. And I can hear that we might be sitting across from each other, and then we'll see what we'll get on with there. Self-determination is also important, but it is just as much on the free choice of supplier. It cannot be right for you to have a railway station in your home because you have private home help, but at the same time through the municipality you have to go through a rehabilitation programme and then we cannot just say that the agreement is that it provides the same company then. So we have some good discussions, I can hear, and we look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140321	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030140333	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. When age presses for a long, good life, some unfortunately experience that they cannot do what they used to do in their own lives, and then it is that as a community we have a responsibility to ensure good help and care for the elderly fellow citizens, well to feel the right help and at the right time. I think we can all understand that the best thing is if you can continue to be able to do what you have been able to do all along, that is to say, when you want to get out of bed, when you want to get out of the door, when you want to eat, when you want to go to the bathroom and all the other things, but older people who have lost many of the functions they have had all their lives can experience being dependent on outside help in order to be able to do those things. I believe that the most worthy thing is that we go as far as we can at all to ensure that all these everyday activities that you may not think about how important are, when you can do them, people must be able to do as long as possible. Our older fellow citizens should not sit and wait for a home helper to be able to go to the bathroom if, by designing the aid differently and for example. Having more training can make sure that they can do it themselves. That is what has been set aside for the legislation we are discussing here today. After all, the exciting negotiations we had in the spring ended up with a political agreement on the future of home help, and that was a follow-up to the really, really good work of the Home Aid Commission. The bill adjusts four different elements of the Service Act, which will safeguard our home help for the future. It is about ensuring that municipalities systematically work with rehabilitation programmes and that they work from a common starting point and a common legal basis, and that is the short answer to the question of why we are making a change of law, since so many municipalities are already doing this. The adjustments are about four things. First of all, it is a question of ensuring that the recipient of home help is offered a shorter targeted rehabilitation programme, that is, that the new starting point for home help in this country is when you first meet the municipality visitor and the elderly, who can no longer do what he or she usually can, that the question that is at the centre is: How can we ensure what can we do to make sure that you can again do what you have been able to do before, that in the future you can also decide about your own life, when you want to get out of bed, when you want to get out of the door, when you can go to the toilet and the other things that older citizens are getting practical help with today. This means that in future the municipal councils will be obliged to have this as their primary focus and their focus in the first meeting with the elderly, i.e. how it can be ensured that the citizens get back the level of function they have had before, so that they become more self-reliant and so that they can live life as they like longer. And it is clear that the outcome of that assessment will be different from person to person. There are some who will experience that they can again be completely self-help, there are others who will experience that they can cope with some of the challenges of everyday life themselves and must receive help for the rest, and there are some who will again prove not to benefit from self-help because their disability is so lasting that they must get the help that we know today under section 83 of the Service Act. It's exactly the broad approach that needs to be to the older citizens with this change of law. Secondly, local authorities are obliged to set individual targets for each recipient. That is not the case today, and I think that is a very big one and can be a very high quality one. Individual targets must be set for home help. People are different, and therefore the objectives must also be different. I look forward very much to following what that will mean. Thirdly, it is being adjusted to stop distinguishing between permanent and temporary aid. All help must have the main purpose of strengthening the recipient in being able to cope with himself again, with the view that we all want to decide for ourselves on our own lives, and then help must be adjusted continuously in relation to the individual's development, which can of course go back, but fortunately can also proceed. That is how life is different, depending on which cards we get on hand. Fourthly, the draft law proposes to stop the demand for the recipient to have a contact person. It is very simple why we are doing this, because it has been pointed out both by an external investigation and by the Home Aid Commission, namely that there are not very many elderly people who know the scheme and that it has not contributed significantly to ensuring more coherence and quality. Instead, in the political agreement, we have discussed other ways of ensuring proper coherence and security for the elderly in relation to what help is given. It has to be said that with this change, local authorities will be given greater freedom to decide what is the most sensible and secure contact with citizens, and I would like to say very clearly that with greater freedom there will also be a corresponding increase in responsibility. One cannot sit back and say that we have a contact arrangement, and then the sacred grave is well-preserved as one could before and how few older people knew about it. Now you have a greater responsibility to ensure that you have reasonable and secure contact with the citizen. Finally, I would like to say that I have also heard many of the concerns that have been raised. I think we have had a very good debate on this. We, the conciliation parties and the parliamentary parties in general, have been discussing it on a regular basis, and there has also been, as I understand it, a lot of dialogue with the various consultative parties, and I think we have landed with a very sensible legislative proposal. Some of what's being asked about by Mr. Finn Sørensen's side is, of course, some of the adjustments actually made on the basis of the negotiations, and I am sure that we can clarify that during the committee's reading. So I just want to make something clear in the end. After all, a rehabilitation course can be completed for various reasons, either because you have become completely self-reliant, because the training has lifted as much as you can be lifted, or because you are not able to be part of the rehabilitation programme anymore, and then with the bill it is quite clear that the work starts to assess what help the citizen should have under the § 83, the home help clause that we know today. And all the way around, from the first meeting with the citizen, setting individual targets, all the way through the rehabilitation process, it is the individual citizen who is at the heart of this. I am very much looking forward to the debate on the legislative proposal. I am really glad that in this way we will have future-proof home help in Denmark, so that in the future we can also take care of those people who cannot regain the ability to function they have lost. It may be because they have become very hard demented because they have survived a very serious disease that has left them so damaged in the body that they cannot fend for themselves, but I am also very happy that in the future we will have a home help that for the very many elderly who live longer and are healthy, ensures that they can continue to be masters of their own house, themselves determine their own lives as long as possible. The Social Democrats support the proposal if you are in doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141001	Thank you. Then there are a few questions for the rapporteur. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141006	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and also to the rapporteur of the Left. I didn't get to say that, you should. However, I am glad, at least, that the rapporteur says that it is the elderly themselves that should be at the centre. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur the same question that I put to the rapporteur of the Left, and I think that the other rapporteurs can do their best to answer it. Will the rapporteur support an amendment which makes it clear clearly that the municipality cannot refuse home help on the grounds that the citizen refuses to participate in a rehabilitation programme? When I ask that, it is because it is quite unclear in the draft law. That is precisely the point that has not been made. It is said that if the citizen does not manage it, but it is the municipality that assesses whether the citizen is able to do so. It does not say that it is up to the citizen himself to judge whether the citizen is capable of doing so. So it is very important for Enhedslisten to make it clear in the bill. That is why I am so curious to hear what the rapporteur will say about such an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141106	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141107	Well, I have to ask you back to understand what it really is that Enhedslisten is referring to, because is it that Enhedslisten is aimed at us going away from the basic principle of the Service Act, namely that it is the municipal council that is the authority? It is also not the case with section 83 on home help that the elderly can demand it and that help, for example. say: I will not have washed up in a dishwasher; I want you to stand to do it by hand. Should I understand Enhedslisten's rapporteur so that he will do away with the basic principle of the Service Act that it is the municipality that is the authority? Because that's not something that this bill goes in and changes, either in relation to section 83 on home help or section 83a on rehabilitation. If that is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is asking about, then we are in the process of a completely fundamentally different maneuver than what I see in this bill. If there are only a few words and some wordings, I will not be here to conclude anything final, but as I just hear what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is asking about, it is actually some of the things that we have had to make some linguistic changes to reassure some of those who have been concerned about what this should mean for the individual elderly. How can I understand Enhedslisten's rapporteur: will we fundamentally change who has the authority and responsibility here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141216	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141218	I'll be happy to elaborate on that when I have more time for it myself. However, I would like to say briefly that if the rapporteur listens to what the amendment is about, the rapporteur will be able to hear that there is no dispute about the fundamental principle that it is the municipality that assesses whether the citizen should be assisted. This is about introducing a completely new principle into home help, namely that the municipalities are required to send the citizens as a general rule, it is clear and clear that this training programme is being carried out. And then it is natural to ask: where does the citizen's right to self-determination go in that exercise? This is what this amendment will ensure if it is written into the law. That is not what it says now, nor is it in the comments, and I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur's position on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141306	Mrs. Astrid Krag, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141312	It is good to hear that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will elaborate on this in his own speech, but just to reply briefly, I would like to say that this is precisely why it is so clear from both the comments and the legislative text that this should be with the citizen at the centre. That's also why there's been an addition or change I can't even remember where we're in the process of formulating the situation that the citizen doesn't have the power to complete the rehabilitation process. It's a very broad formulation that's not just about you physically not being able to retrain your new hip so you can get up in the morning or go to the bathroom yourself. It's a broader understanding. And the rapporteur should be very welcome to ask about this so that we can get it further in the work of the committee. I am just glad to hear that, because that is how I heard Enhedslisten's rapporteur. You get a little doubt sometimes. So we are not out in such a complete rethink of how else to search for home help, because then I would say that it was something quite different we had going on. After all, I hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say this: that is not what this is about. We stick to the basic principles we know. That's not what we're doing. I'm glad to hear that after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141412	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141415	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Socialists think it is good that very few people are helping an elderly citizen who needs help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141430	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141431	I simply do not know whether I understand the question, then, whether it is good that there are few people who provide help to someone who needs help. Is it the number of helpers in the home that the rapporteur is thinking of? Okay. Then I understood it anyway when I talked myself through it. Well, I think, and it is also in the political agreement text that we made in the spring, that it is really crucial for the municipalities to do what they can to ensure that there is both predictability and, of course, a gallery of people to recognise for the elderly. That's why we're here. I've been writing something about this trying to get a text message about who's coming for those who have a cell phone. If what is intended is to abolish the contact system, then I would say that, as I understand the analysis made by the contact system, most elderly people did not know about it. That is why I allowed myself to say that I believe that for some municipal councils it has been a sleeping pillow. Then it has been possible to say: we have a contact arrangement, then there is enough security for the elderly. At the same time, by removing this from the draft law, we make it clear that now there is a greater freedom of how to ensure that older citizens actually have a sense of security and know what kind of contact they should have with the municipality. But with that freedom there is also a greater responsibility. We cannot have some kind of system that looks good on paper but does not work in reality. Now you have to deliver something that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141539	Thank you. Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141540	It was very good, it was said, that we have to deliver something that works, because with a Social Democratic Minister for Social Affairs I know that it has been some social ministers since then made a bill on free choice in the use of home help, and that means that the citizen can choose a private provider for himself to do the job. This has been completely neglected here by saying that it is the municipality that must come. So I understand on the whole that the Socialists do not quite think in depth about their own legislative proposals, because now they come up with one where it is just confirmed that even more people have to go through the home, because there is also someone from the municipality who has to carry out rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141623	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141624	But then I think that the rapporteur of the Left reads this bill in a pessimistic way. There is nothing in this bill to prevent municipalities from choosing to use private suppliers. The municipalities can do that. And if the rapporteur of the Left is right about what is the most well-functioning offer, then one must assume that where there are well-functioning private suppliers, it will also be obvious to engage in dialogue on it. Without having to put my head on the block, perhaps the Minister will have to come around too. I remember it as if the Home Aid Commission concluded that it would be careful here because there are no private suppliers in this area and certainly not wide across the country. I think that this draft law offers the opportunities that the rapporteur of the Left is asking for. But that can be further identified in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141709	Thank you for that and also thank you to the rapporteur. And there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030141716	Thank you. In fact, I think it is deep within most of us that we want to be able to take care of ourselves. This is true from childhood when you find out which options are in front of you that you want to be able to handle on your own. It may be when you have to learn to ride a bike when the success is felt at the moment when your feet release the ground and you can keep your balance for longer, or when you find out as a new mother that at the moment you step in across the threshold of your own home with your little child on your arm, you are suddenly responsible for another small person, and you find that you can do the job. Later in life there are many other examples that there is some satisfaction in being able to cope with themselves and be able to cope with much. It contributes to increased quality of life, dignity and also to a degree of freedom. I am convinced that most people, when they are affected by illness or when they reach a nice piece up into the years and need help and support to cope with smaller or larger things in everyday life, are very concerned about being able to be part of the decision-making process and to feel involved is a co-player in their own lives. For some, it may feel like a failure to ask for help because one feels a certain powerlessness over not having control over one's own life and capacity. For me, it is essential that respect for the individual and the individual's wishes should fill a great deal when we discuss home help. A home help recipient is a unique being with special needs. If today's proposal emphasizes the need for an individual assessment of the needs and abilities of the citizen, it must always be said, with a thick headline, that the elderly are listened to when visiting home help and that they are motivated and feel satisfied as far as possible. If the elderly cannot express their wishes, it must always be possible to involve relatives who can support their relatives. It was very important for the Danish People's Party in the negotiations on this agreement on future home help that relatives can play a major role if the home help recipient so wishes. Part of having, if you may say so, the command in your own life is to try to find out how you can be rehabilitated and who receives something positive and a gain out of it. It may be very different from one citizen to another, but as a starting point the Danish People's Party believes it is important that the municipalities see what opportunities there are for a citizen to get something out of being rehabilitated and to motivate the elderly to get involved, but it must always be with the focus that wants the citizen the best and not with the focus on savings, because it must never happen. If a citizen cannot get anything out of a rehabilitation course, it must not be put into effect. It must not be the case that a citizen may be rehabilitated to pick up the mail from the mailbox if the citizen is then completely exhausted. Then there is no point in rehabilitating, because quality of life will suffer. I know that among other things. The Elders case has expressed concern that it may end in coercion for the citizen. It is therefore important for the Minister to stress to the municipalities that they have a very great obligation to motivate the elderly and not to impose a heavy yoke on the elderly that they cannot bear. I am convinced that the vast majority will be able to benefit and benefit from rehabilitation, find joy and satisfaction in doing so, thereby increasing the quality of life and, indeed, a greater degree of freedom, be less bound and managed by the time of others. But when we discuss a proposal like this, there must always be an opportunity to accommodate that group, although it is probably very small, which simply cannot be part of a rehabilitation process. It is written into the bill in both legislative text and comments. I have to say that if these wordings are not sufficient, the Minister must work to clarify it. KL has been promoting that municipalities can deprive a citizen of home help if the citizen is unable to carry out a rehabilitation course. I have asked about this, and the Minister has said in reply to me that they cannot do so, so it is very important to me today that the Ministry and the Minister should make it quite clear that the possibility of quitting exists and that as a citizen you are not being punished with a message that you will not get any help. The legal certainty of the citizen must be paramount. When we subsequently have to deal with this bill in committee, it is important for the Danish People's Party that the report clearly states what is correct and that it does not end up in a legal fight afterwards. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that the municipalities have a heavy responsibility to carry out this law in the spirit of the law and with the emphasis on motivation and individual considerations as the guiding principles, and there is also a great responsibility for the Ministry to ensure that this happens. At the time the Danish People's Party tabled a motion for a resolution to set up a Home Aid Commission which was to come along, we believe, needed recommendations for improving future home help. We must ensure that this law also contributes to improvements, and there are different opinions as to whether it is now doing so, so to ensure that, we must continue to work on the proposal in the Committee on Social Affairs, but there must also be further work in the Ministry and in the Ministry's dialogue with KL, which represents the municipalities. It means a lot to the Danish People's Party that rehabilitation must be something positive for the citizen and something that can help improve the quality of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142243	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142246	Thank you very much. Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, it is not only the government that has a responsibility. I suppose it is also members of the Folketing and not least the parties to the agreement behind a bill that has a responsibility. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of this, but it is the case that the Ankestyrelsen has approved the practice of depriving the citizen of home help if, in the view of the municipality, the citizen does not want to cooperate on a rehabilitation course. This is among other things. the clear guidelines in the City of Copenhagen, which say that this is the case. That is why I ask the rapporteur: is it not reasonable, then, that we should be crystal clear in the legislative proposal, that it cannot take place and that such a practice is not legal? I would like to put a question to the rapporteur, whom I have also asked the others. I think that the Elders case has made some good suggestions for amendments that can make it clear in the law. For example: there is the proposal that the municipality cannot refuse home help on the grounds that the citizen refuses to participate in a rehabilitation programme. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that this is clear in the law in advance. Where is it, then, and if it cannot be found in the legislative proposal, what I do not think it can, will the rapporteur support such an amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142403	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142404	I hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen listened well to the speech, where I just stated that there are in fact different views on what should actually be practice in the future. That is why I am also saying that there must be increased dialogue. The Danish People's Party has also received these inquiries, primarily from the Elders Sagen. We respect them very much as a great player in this field. It is not a counter-player, it is a co-player who knows a lot and has a great deal of expertise in this area. That is why I have also put a question to the Minister about this. I have received an answer from the Minister, who says that we are not actually talking about coercion, but about motivation. Then it also says that aid cannot be refused simply on the grounds that the citizen is unable to carry out the process. It just makes us have to make sure what's right about this. It should not, as I say, suddenly end up in a legal wrangling between the lawyers of one party and the other. There must be complete clarity about what this is like in the future, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party say that we need to continue working on this proposal. It is not the case that once we have done the first reading today, we know how to vote on the day we have the third reading and so on. As far as this proposal is concerned, there are so many things that are actually still unresolved and that we need to be sure of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142513	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142515	Thank you. I am glad, then, that the rapporteur is not entirely unresponsive to a change in the legislative proposal. After all, I am a little surprised, because the rapporteur has been more closely involved in the process than the Enhedslisten has. We were not a part, were not invited to the negotiations except for an initial meeting, so I did not have the opportunity to influence that process, but the rapporteur did. I am surprised that we are satisfied with a wording such as that quoted by the rapporteur. For who is it who decides what the citizen can do? That is the crucial issue. There is no doubt in that bill, just as the law does not. It is the municipality that decides what the citizen can do, and that is what we need to put right. That is why it is so important for me to hear from now on whether the rapporteur will support the clarification of the citizen's right to self-determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142609	I think I made it incredibly clear in my speech how much we in the Danish People's Party are watching to listen to the citizen and that the citizen must be involved in his own life in the decisions to be made. If the citizen cannot do so, he must involve the relatives and so on. I would also like to comment on the fact that the rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party was closer to the process than the Enhedslisten. Yes, we were because we want to be close to the process. We want to be involved, we want to take responsibility, but we also want to keep the government in its ears, so that something that is good is done, and that is also why we say that we are working on it. I sense more that Enhedslisten said from the beginning that they will not be involved in anything, because then you are so nicely released today. Then there is no risk of anything at all, so you can please those you want to be welcomed. I think that is actually a bad approach to the whole issue. So I would like to make it clear, as I said in my speech, that we are working very hard on this. We are not completely clear on how to deal with the third reading, because we want to have certainty about some things. That is precisely one of the points I have made in the past, and I would like to repeat this: the legal certainty of the citizen must be in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142710	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mie Bergmann, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142717	Lotte Rod is prevented today. She has other tasks, negotiations, and that is why I have been allowed to do this task today. Bill L 25 is, as mentioned, on rehabilitation and home care objectives. Fortunately, most people feel that as long as the citizen can handle various things himself, such as wearing stockings, most people would prefer to do it on their own. However, when the functioning of the musculoskeletal system is reduced, professionals were previously searched to help with this, but in recent years everyday rehabilitation has gained ground. This means that the elderly citizen or the citizen with disabilities will be taught how to handle it on their own. This is of course to the benefit of the majority of citizens, but it is also to the benefit of the municipalities' cash funds. As the rapporteur of the Left pointed out, these are the good examples we know from the majority of municipalities. But it is not unimportant in this context that there should be cooperation with relevant relatives. The bill obliges the city councils to set individual targets for each individual. In addition, the distinction between temporary and permanent personal and practical assistance is removed and the contact system, which we mentioned earlier, is abolished. I have also noted the answers to the hearings, and I have noted in particular the consultation response from DANISH PARENTS' COUNCIL. When I note very much the answer of the DANISH PARENT COUNCIL, it is because it is elected persons who have relatives very, very close, i.e... Those elected to various senior councils or councils have relatives in elderly centres or other elderly relatives. They say that they are generally satisfied with the bill. I think that is very, very important. I also think it is essential that it follows the recommendations of the Home Aid Commission. So radicals can back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142923	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Mach from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030142930	Thank you. The draft law, as already mentioned by a number of the rapporteurs, is a follow-up to the Home Aid Agreement, of which SF was also a part, from June. At the same time, the agreement was an attempt to unfold some of the ideas put forward by the Home Aid Commission and the new practice of rehabilitation attempts, which has gradually spread to most municipalities. There should be no doubt that the SF in the main supports this practice, because of course most citizens have a desire to take care of themselves as much as possible in their daily lives. Several of my colleagues have also mentioned this. It is the most worthy, and it also provides, when it works, more opportunities to participate in more activities and ensures the most meaningful and influence for the individual in their own lives. And that's why we were also part of the home help agreement. However, it is important, and I would like to emphasise this, that the rehabilitation course also makes sense for the individual citizen. Therefore, I think there is good reason why we should listen to a number of the objections that have been raised in the hearings and the inquiries from the Elders Case, the Social Pedagogues, Trade Union Seniors and Danske Handicap Organisations. They all point out that elderly citizens or citizens with disabilities may be deprived of their home help if either they feel unable to participate in a rehabilitation programme or, for example, they must interrupt it during the process. I think they have a point, because in these years, most municipalities have to turn every penny because they are under great economic pressure, and that means they have to make tough priorities. And in this respect, I do not think that we need to expose them to the risk of making wrong choices. That is why I would like us to consider the Elders' proposal for a little flexibility or a cat door, or what expression we are going to use in connection with this, for those citizens who do not feel they can cope with a rehabilitation course. In any case, I think that, in the further process, we need clarification from the Minister and a guarantee that it is as it says, that the municipal council cannot refuse aid on the sole grounds that the citizen is unable to carry out the rehabilitation process. There should be a reference to the situation of the elderly citizen. And we would like to see this problem deepened further in the ongoing work of the committee, because we would like to avoid that elderly people, with help needs, lose home help as a result of the general municipal budget squeeze. We have stumbled a little bit at the fact that the Minister's reply to the contract circle does not really show otherwise, that is to say that it is the same thing as the draft law before us, namely that the municipality must always make a concrete and individual assessment of the need for help for the tasks that the citizen cannot carry out himself. Unfortunately, this is no guarantee that the citizen concerned and his relatives will always be listened to and involved. So we would like that to be clarified in the legislative text, as it was also suggested to both the Elders Case and Danske Handicap organisations. In conclusion, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister, in his comments on the bill, has stressed that citizens with a high level of care needs and residents in care centres can also benefit from a rehabilitation programme, for example. citizens with a dementia diagnosis. One of the objections raised by, among others, has just been listened to. The Alzheimer's Association states that demented citizens are sometimes separated in certain municipalities when searching for a rehabilitation course. I think it is very important that the Minister has listened to this. However, in order to be absolutely sure, it might be possible to consider introducing a new section 83a paragraph. 1, as proposed by the Alzheimer's Association, so that the municipal offers can be targeted to demented fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143251	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143255	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech, in which I note with great satisfaction that the rapporteur has listened to the concerns raised by a number of organisations, and I must add in all modesty that the Enhedslisten has already taken part in the one meeting of this debate that we were allowed to participate in. That is exactly the point we put our finger on, so I am glad that the rapporteur says that we need to look at this issue. That is why a sharp question, because it is after all a question of who will decide whether or not the citizen can do it. I guess that's what this is about. I don't suppose there's two people in charge. Is it the citizen who decides whether the citizen can do it? It is the citizen's feeling of not managing such a rehabilitation course? Is that what it takes, or is it the municipality's assessment of whether the citizen can do it? Well, you're either pregnant or you're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143358	I can confirm the rapporteur's last point. But I think the rapporteur knows the answer. We are very interested in getting a system that means that as a citizen you have a decisive saying, as you would say in New Danish. The allocation of home help is a right one has, and that is what is basically the position of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143426	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143429	Well then, I would like to put on my most positive hat and say that if I understand the fine turn there, I understand the rapporteur's importance that it is the citizen who has the crucial word when it comes to dealing with the issue of such a rehabilitation course. So if that's true, you and I are pulling the same hammer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143452	Actually, I think there are more of us. I think I have heard several of our colleagues mention the same problems in their rapporteur's speeches. However, I think it is absolutely crucial that citizens of this country who need help do not lose their home help as a result of an ordinary municipal budget squeeze. That must be absolutely crucial, and that is the political responsibility that we must take on in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143512	Thank you to the rapporteur for the SF. Then the next in the series of speakers is Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030143524	Thank you. I'm gonna grab a drink of water. Isn't it being deducted from my salary, that is, from my speaking time? Third Vice-President Yes, yes). The Enhedslisten cannot support the draft law in its present form. Rehabilitation or self-help, as I would prefer to call it, at least in Danish, is a good thing. Everyone wants to take care of themselves as long as possible in their own homes, and it is fine to help citizens do so. However, the draft law before us clearly goes too far. The bill means that as a general rule there is no home help until the citizen has undergone a so-called rehabilitation course. This is clear from the legal text and comments. It does say that rehabilitation is an offer, but that is what I would call a Sicilian offer that the citizen cannot refuse without risking having the help taken away. In this way, rehabilitation will be a duty for the citizen, as the citizen supporters of the bill would say, and at least I am sure that the minister will do so in a moment that it does not say anything about it and that it is not intended. No, but it does not say otherwise either, namely that the citizen can say no to a rehabilitation course without losing his help. It merely says that one, that is. the municipality cannot deprive the aid if the citizen is unable to carry out the process, but it is the municipality that assesses whether the citizen can do so. After the agreement had been concluded, we were only allowed to see it in the Enhedslisten and to consider whether we wanted to join, and then we tried to sign up for the agreement, that participation in a rehabilitation course should be voluntary and that the citizen could not lose the help if the citizen did not want to participate. This should not be difficult, given the statements made by the Minister for Social Affairs at the meeting of the people this summer, when the Minister said that of course no one should be forced to be rehabilitated in any way whatsoever. I can also refer to an answer given by the Minister to the Elders' case on 18 June, which states very clearly that it does not make sense to talk about forced rehabilitation, which we can all agree with. Then why couldn't I have it in the text of the agreement? There can only be the explanation that the government will not deprive the municipalities of the opportunity to force the citizens. I am not the only one who sees this as being what the draft law allows. Here I would refer to the consultation answers from Danish Handicap Organisations, Professional Seniors, FOA, Social Pedagogues and the Elders Case. I would also like to refer to another witness of truth, Mr. Thomas Kastrup Larsen, former chairman of KL's Social and Health Committee, who spoke in praise of the proposal in August of this year in Altinget. He made it clear that the home help recipient has no rights when it comes to rehabilitation. I quote: 'If you want help, you have to go into that process. If you say no to rehabilitation just because you want help, then you don't go wholeheartedly into it yourself, it sounds like. But who has the power to determine whether there is any reason for the deep distrust of the citizens who are glowing out of Mr. Thomas Kastrup Larsen's statement? Who has the power to decide whether the citizen goes wholeheartedly into this? Who decides whether the citizen intends to complete the training course? According to the bill, it's the municipal council that decides. The draft law thus establishes the practice which some municipalities already have in this area and which the Ankestyrelsen has confirmed. For example, in the City of Copenhagen there are: a clear instruction that if the citizen rejects a professionally justified offer of everyday rehabilitation, the citizen will not, as a starting point, be given assistance for practical to-dos. It goes without saying that it is important to change this bill. First of all, it is a question of treating the elderly in a dignified way, meeting them as equals and guaranteeing their right to self-determination, which all the parties of the Folketing have made many toasts about. However, it is also a question of providing the elderly and home help recipients with tools to protect themselves against the reduction wave in the home help area which the VK government and the Danish People's Party launched in 2008 and which continues under the current government. Here rehabilitation has become the big golden egg, the excuse to save on home help, the tool to ensure that the funds are not used to take account of the fact that there are more elderly people in general and therefore also more elderly people who need practical help and personal care. It should of course be noted that the bill also imposes on the municipalities that all the current approx. 150,000 home help recipients must be re-evaluated and undergo rehabilitation programmes by the end of 2016 except a very small group that cannot. Amendment of the bill is double-requisite because in May 2013 the Supreme Court agreed with the municipalities that they can cut back on the aid without any improvement in the capacity of the citizen concerned to fend for themselves. The present draft law is, as it stands, a further erosion of legal certainty in this area. It is simply unworthy of us to treat older citizens in this way. They have worked their whole lives to create the society we have, and then we can undo them some help in the final phase. I look forward to the work of the committee and hope that I can convince a majority that the legislative proposal should be amended in this area and that it should actually be rejected if it does not succeed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144043	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief remark from Mrs Mie Bergmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144050	I'm gonna ask you if mr. Finn Sørensen does not agree that relatives are involved as far as possible in the process when deciding on rehabilitation. So if there are relatives, will they not be involved in this process and in the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144108	Yeah, that's what the bill's gonna do. We have no objection to that. Hopefully, the issue has also been raised both in my speech and in all the questions I have asked, and it is of course about who has the power, if you can say so: is it the citizens, or is it the municipality, when it comes to whether you can get help, if you do not feel that you can manage this rehabilitation process? That is what is at the heart of the problem. But it's nice to involve the next of kin. We must then hope that the resources are there, so that this actually happens, but on that point we do not have any criticism of the legislative proposal. I haven't said that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144140	There is one more comment? No, no more. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Peter Laigaard of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144200	Thank you for the floor. The bill here deals with approx. 150,000 people receive home help, and it is mainly our older fellow citizens. Many municipalities are already working on the subject, and in my own home municipality, the municipality of Frederikshavn, we have the concept as long as possible in our own lives. In the Liberal Alliance, we see this bill as a strengthening of that development, and we are therefore very much in favour of it. The bill obliges the municipality to make an assessment of the need for home help and to offer a time-limited, short-term targeted rehabilitation programme, thereby also assessing the functional capacity of the recipient and possibly reducing the need for home help or increasing it thereafter. The crucial point of the proposal is, of course, to take more account of individual considerations than the current state of affairs. The bill obliges the municipality to set the individual targets for the individual recipient in relation to the assistance provided under section 83 of the Service Act, and we have also noted, of course, that the distinction between temporary and permanent personal assistance, and that this contact arrangement is abolished. So the purpose of the bill is to support that the municipality works systematically with rehabilitation based on a common understanding of the basic principles of the rehabilitation course. At the same time, clarity has also been created about the aid for the individual recipient, and this is also quite important. But the proposal currently before us is not without thorns. At any rate, we in the Liberal Alliance have noted that the Elders case has addressed all of us and emphasised that it is important that it is not only the municipal council which has to assess whether the individual citizen is in charge of this rehabilitation course which determines whether it should be completed or whether it can go the other way. Because if the citizen himself has indicated that he is not in a position to cope with this rehabilitation process, I can easily follow the considerations that have now been made by some other parties, especially by Enhedslisten, as to what the consequences of this can be. Can you risk losing your help? We in the Liberal Alliance do not think this has been clarified in the legislative text. Moreover, it has also been apparent in the past from the preparatory work to the law that rehabilitation must be much more an offer and not a duty for the home help recipient. So the starting point for legislation in this area must be that it is the citizen himself who can best decide whether the process makes sense and whether he or she can manage this rehabilitation process. So I share some of the considerations that other rapporteurs have also had. Specifically, we see, for example. in Article 2 (2) of the legislative text. 4, that the municipal council cannot refuse assistance under § 83, solely on the grounds that the recipient is unable to implement it. There you can read this text in contrast, so that the municipality can include it as perhaps a decisive criterion for a citizen to lose his home help later on. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we simply want this word to be deleted from the text at the moment, because then we will make sure somewhere that the municipality does not punish a citizen who does not believe that he can carry out this rehabilitation course. I think that is also what the rapporteur on the Enhedslist felt. In fact, I do not think we need to be particularly afraid that it will happen that citizens are queued up to say no to rehabilitation, because most citizens see a great deal of honour and dignity in being able to cope with themselves more easily. So it will be quite exceptional for the very weakest citizens who are unable to cope with this, and there too we think it is important that those citizens should be guaranteed by not possibly losing the basic home help because they are now saying no to the rehabilitation process. At any rate, this is something that we are going to continue to work on in this area now. Rehabilitation must be seen as an offer and not a charge, nor must it become a hidden austerity exercise. Another area we also want to discuss with the other conciliation parties is the possibility of looking at whether the rehabilitation process could not also be included in the free elections. That is what the rapporteur of the Left was talking about. In the consultation answers you can see that Danish Industry and Danish Industry are raising this point, and you should also bear in mind that our Finance Minister has already said that we can be a bit of a competitive state. I myself recently sat here with the minister in the area • I think it was for 13 hours that we were negotiating and there he was not frightened by the idea that private people could also solve a number of health tasks. So we would also like to work to ensure that there could be some free choice in this area. These are some of the considerations that we will also take into account in the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144615	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144620	Thank you. There is, after all, such an unwritten rule that you do not ask inquisitoric questions to a rapporteur who gives his maiden speech. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his speech, and I do not want to ask such questions either. I would just like to acknowledge the rapporteur's concern over the criticisms that have been made. I think it sounds interesting. Then I would also like to agree with the rapporteur on one thing that I think should go along with. If we all agree that everyone would prefer to stay as long as possible in their own homes and would prefer to be on their own, then only a small group would say: I simply cannot participate in this training programme. That's what it's gonna have to do, because what are the proportions? So how hard can it be to clarify in the law that you cannot be punished if you say: I really don't feel I can do that? So I welcome the rapporteur's comments on this and then we will see what the correct wording is. I am not entirely sure that what the rapporteur is proposing solves the problem. I think you have to write clearly and clearly that you cannot be deprived of help because you say: I can't do it, I can't take part in this. But thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144731	Well, I also thank you again, and I can see from the considerations we have made in this area that we probably share views in this area. It may be more difficult on the subject of free elections; there we might have some disagreements. However, I think we share legal considerations in this area, so we will of course work for that too. But thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144748	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030144757	We have a duty to care for our elderly, and this requires a high quality home help, which also helps to provide our older people with security and dignity. When we went into the reform work, and we did so actively, it was with the desire to take responsibility for us. We know that there are more older people and we also know that the group of older people is much more complex and differentiated than in the past. We could also see that the existing legislation was not entirely up to date, and I know many, for whom the call from the municipality came very inconveniently, and they thought: Why are they calling me? That is quite understandable, because older people are really different. That is why it is good for a reform to ensure that priority is given to the elderly, who need home help. It is also good that a project for the lonely elderly is being carried out in the reform, and we from Conservatives have just highlighted Eating Friends, which is a project in Odense initiated by the Elders Case, because it is known that small-time elderly people eat more in the company of others and that it gives an appetite for life • also speaking about the discussions we have had about food here lately. Then we have to say that the concept of home help has moved forward. Many municipalities today offer rehabilitation programmes where the elderly through training themselves learn to master daily tasks, and this is positive. This is just as positive because it gives more quality of life and greater satisfaction to be able to carry out everyday tasks on your own. And the more independent the elderly can become, the better it is. But, of course, this must not be overridden and, of course, there must be a balance. Here we have raised a concern with the Minister, which is that, of course, elderly people must not be forced into rehabilitation. Although Mrs Hansen can lubricate her lunch herself, it should not be the case that she has to rest and gather strength for the rest of the day because the task has simply been too hard. We in the Conservative People's Party have taken note of the criticisms and concerns raised partly by the Elders Case and partly by the Alzheimer's Association, particularly in relation to the demented ones, and we take them seriously. We have repeatedly asked the Minister to respond to that criticism and we want an assurance that there will be no coercion when the reform is applied. That is why we have also taken note of this today, and it is a good thing that there are several parties that have raised this concern, and it is therefore perfectly natural that we should discuss this issue in concrete terms in the committee procedure that is coming. The most important thing for us is the well-being of the elderly, which is why it is absolutely essential that we do not force the individual to do something and that cannot be emphasised enough. That is why we will also be following the area zealously, and if there are examples later, even if we close this cat door, in municipalities that fail to fulfil their obligations, we have unfortunately seen this sometimes, we will not hesitate to go into the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145057	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145101	Sound's on the microphone. You just have to give it a punch with the index finger, but not the rapporteur, because I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very clear statement that we must ensure that the municipalities cannot force the elderly on this point that we are discussing. I am very pleased about that. I am a little surprised at the fact that there are now several of the parties to the agreement expressing exactly the concern expressed by Enhedslisten at the one meeting that we were allowed to participate in, that the text of the agreement as it does, because that relationship has not been secured, and that is not guaranteed in the draft law either. But am I to understand this, and I would like to be sure that the rapporteur is sensitive to the amendment that the Elders case has submitted to us so nicely that they have done some work for us and which, of course, ensures that the municipalities will not be able to force the elderly by threatening to take the help from them if they do not want to enter such a rehabilitation course? So I would like to know whether the rapporteur is inclined to support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145207	It is actually wrong to use the term to be allowed to attend the first meeting, for as I remember it, Enhedslisten went himself. That is exactly what shows the difference between the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party, because we stayed at the table. We stayed, and we negotiated, and we were made clear many times, by the way, I might be speaking on behalf of some other parties, along with other parties who just stressed that there should of course be no compulsion. We saw a long way along the way that there was an understanding of that. Then, of course, we have been in a process in which we want what was concluded in the political agreement to be reflected into concrete legislation. We must then see if we can get this under control in committee, but I think that one can hardly blame a party for having taken responsibility, followed the negotiations, fought precisely to ensure that there is no compulsion, rather than choosing the bath ticket that Enhedslisten is on, where no responsibility has been taken and where one went from the first meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145306	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145309	I hope that the Minister will confirm in a moment what is the facts, namely that the Enhedslisten has been invited to one meeting, the meeting in which all the parties participated, that we there, on equal terms with other parties, made our views on the proposal, that we did not leave any debate, we went with all the others when the meeting was over, so if we left, all went away and that Enhedslisten did not hear anything since that debate until we heard by detour that there was an agreement and then contacted the Minister. These are the facts about this process. The rapporteur then took the opportunity to talk a great deal about the Enhedslisten and failed to answer questions. Will the rapporteur support a wording such as the one proposed by the Elders Case, so that we get it into the law so that there is no doubt that we cannot just drive the elderly over and impose rehabilitation courses on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145404	We shall then have that discussion in committee. I have not seen the wording that has been submitted, and therefore, of course, I cannot say from the platform on a stand-by basis whether or not I agree with a wording that I have not seen. However, what I have taken note of today, and what I think is positive, is that there is a common concern expressed by a great many parties and a desire to find each other and find solutions for the benefit of those who are involved in this whole issue, namely the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then it is the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145442	Thank you for your comments on the draft law, and I am delighted to note that there is support for the proposal from the majority of the parties. I can also say, and I would just like to make this clear and confirm that there has been a great meeting where everyone was present. Then I can also confirm that we subsequently had some negotiations where the Conservatives were quite right to take responsibility. We also had a single meeting with Enhedslisten. I hope so. Finn Sørensen remembers too, and then there should have been another meeting, but there was some coke in it. Then it should have been clarified. But with the proposal here, we will have clarity about the obligation of municipalities to offer rehabilitation to those citizens who have the potential to improve their ability to function, and on this point I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen in that you might want to replace the word rehabilitation with what might be most right, namely help for self-help. I am also pleased that there is support for the fact that in future, as several speakers have said, home help is also a core benefit in the area of the elderly. I also note that some questions have been raised among the parties as to how the elderly have been asked in relation to rehabilitation or self-help. As the draft law shows, the motivation of the beneficiaries is central to the precise implementation of such a process. It can't be any different. The municipality and the elderly must together set targets for how the citizen can best get back to the life he or she wants, as Mrs Karin Nødgaard, I think, best described in her rapporteur's speech. Therefore, it does not make sense to talk about coercion in connection with a rehabilitation course. It is made clear in the legislative text that a citizen cannot be deprived of or refused home help simply because the citizen is unable to carry out a rehabilitation course. The municipal council must always make a concrete and individual assessment of the citizen's need for help, and it is also clear from the bill that the citizen must receive the necessary assistance and support during the rehabilitation process. This should also ensure that those in need are not left without help. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament once again for its willingness to deal with this bill and look forward to the committee reading, where, of course, I will be available as usual. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145742	Thank you. That is Mrs Karin Nødgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145749	Thank you. The Minister begins by saying that there is great support for the proposal. So, I really hope that the Minister also heard what I said on behalf of the Danish People's Party: that there are several elements we have to deal with completely in relation to this bill, because there are so many things that seem to be perceived in different ways, depending on who reads the bill and who reads the comments to the bill. That is why I would really like the Minister to say how we can make it absolutely clear that there will be no coercion by any citizen unless they are able to be rehabilitated. I think it's incredibly important. I have a letter from the Minister, which we in the group of rapporteurs have just received, saying, as the Minister is now saying, that it is not possible to refuse aid on the sole grounds that the citizen is unable to carry out the rehabilitation process, but we hear some other reasonably large players in this area saying that they do not believe in this; they do not believe in the paper on which it is written. So we have to have certainty about what it is, there are facts so that we do not suddenly find ourselves in a situation with a lot of problems about who has quite legally.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145900	That is absolutely right, and of course I have listened to that too. As I said, as I usually do, I will be fairly responsive to the work of the committee which is now about to begin. And if there is a need for some of these texts to be bored out, so that there is not exactly that confusion, that is, if we could make it sharper, so that there is a stronger understanding of the text that I now think is present, then I think it is quite clear that we must be open to it. I will certainly be open to helping it if it is needed. But I can hear that there are some different views on that particular text.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145953	Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030145955	Well, I definitely think it's needed. And I am very pleased that the Minister is now saying that we will be working on making a little more precise wording in relation to this, because that is what several rapporteurs have said we need. This is an area of great concern to the Danish People's Party. We think it is important to be the master of one's own life, and we do not want the elderly and the relatives to be deprived of anything, compared to what is best possible to increase the quality of life of an elderly person who suddenly needs home help. Can the Minister assure me that there will never be a story after 1 January 2015, when we see these horror scenarios of some elderly people who are completely deprived of their home help because they have said that they are not able to participate in a rehabilitation course?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150042	I can assure you that the bill makes it clear that the municipalities cannot refuse aid on the sole grounds that the citizen is unable to carry out a rehabilitation programme. This is just like what is intended, and indeed it is also what we have used a number of meetings at meetings where the rapporteur has actually been present, namely to get some good wordings that should not be a source of misunderstandings. But I can certainly hear that there is a need for the text to be printed out a little more and, as I said, I would like to make myself available in this regard, because it should be the case that there are no misunderstandings. Now there has also been talk of the Elders cause, and there are others who, funnyly enough, have a different approach, precisely that it is very important for them that those they represent come under the proposal and not be forgotten. Mrs Mai Mercado mentioned the Alzheimer's Association, and their hearing answer is a little different, I just want to say in all silence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150149	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150158	Thank you to the Minister for the speech, and thank you for confirming that Enhedslisten has only participated in a negotiating meeting and then, as the Minister says, a little bit of coke went into it so that we were not invited to the subsequent negotiating meetings, after which it can also be concluded, and it is to Mrs Mai Mercado's briefing that the Enhedslisten has not left any negotiations or refused to accept responsibility, or which other beautiful rhetoric one might otherwise find to use on that occasion. Thank you for the Minister's clear statement that there should be no coercion in this regard. My question to the Minister is: does the Minister think that the current wording that has been made, if the citizen does not manage it and so on, is adequate? Is the Minister still satisfied and does the Minister think that the wording clearly takes account of the citizen's right to self-determination?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150252	That is absolutely correct. In fact, it is also made clear in the legislative text that a citizen cannot be refused home help on the sole grounds that the citizen is unable to carry out a rehabilitation course. This is the case, and Mrs Astrid Krag actually also mentioned that when it comes to entering and assessing home help, it is a concrete assessment by the municipal council. That is also what has been proposed here. But I just want to get away from the whole idea of coercion. I have mentioned it, and I just want to say that it is also in other contexts when you offer psychological assistance, or whatever it may be of similar things, that it is just impossible to force someone to do something that he just doesn't want and wants to do. I think I have made it very, very clear, both with the answers which have been given by the Ministry and also in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150402	Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150405	That sounds really good. The problem, then, is that the Ankestyrelsen in the so-called Hillerødsag has approved that one can do so. It's as simple as that. The state of law is today such that the municipality can deprive the citizen of home help on the grounds that the citizen will not contribute to a rehabilitation course. That is the state of law, and that is what we have to deal with when we have to make a legislative proposal. I agree with the Minister that the principle of the Service Act is that the municipality should make a concrete assessment of the citizen's need for help. But now you want to introduce a whole new parameter that states that the prerequisite for getting the help is that you go through a training course. After all, it has nothing to do with an assessment of the citizen's needs if you take away the help because the citizen cannot/will contribute to this rehabilitation programme. That is why the question is: who decides, according to the text produced by the Minister, whether the citizen is able to implement it? Is it the citizens who decide it, or is it the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150517	But that's the way it is, sir. Finn Sørensen that the individual assessment is made by the municipality, for example. when it comes to home help. That is the case today, and that is also the case after we have adopted the legislative proposal. And then, as I have said a number of times, we will be able to clarify and clarify this in the legislative text. We simply make it clear that the municipalities cannot refuse aid on the sole grounds that the citizen is unable to carry out a rehabilitation programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150554	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150557	Thank you. I heard the Minister say that we had to get away from coercion and that it was important, and I was pleased about that. For one of my anchors was precisely that I wanted the free choice to live here so that a citizen who had chosen to have a private supplier could also have the private supplier, and that if they have a rehabilitation offer, they are the ones who come and take care of it. Is that something that we can work with into the text?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150628	I am very pleased to hear that, and to accommodate it, I would like to go that way if it is possible that we can meet each other and that the Left can vote in favour of the proposal. So I will look forward to that between the treatments and, of course, look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150647	Then there is a brief comment from Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150651	Thank you. I was pleased that the Minister took up the crucial provision, which I think most of the rapporteurs who are in this Chamber and who are taking part in the debate are a little concerned about, and this applies solely to the wording. This means, of course, that if we keep the current wording, we can, in contrast, conclude that a decisive factor in the possible loss of home help is that they have said no to rehabilitation. That is, of course, the concern that most of us in this Chamber have, and that is why we would like to have the floor alone. Because if you have to refuse to give home help, then it should not be because of rehabilitation, then it should be because of all sorts of other things that might be in the way. So that is why we are quite specifically proposing the disappearance of the word alone, because then legal certainty is present with the citizen concerned. We must also remember that it will probably be quite exceptional for the elderly to say no to rehabilitation, because most people probably want to be able to take care of themselves in their own homes. So I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150745	I agree that most people have a desire to be able to take care of themselves, and that is exactly what this is all about. I think most people are aware of this too; it is about helping themselves. As I said earlier, if some of the texts need to be bored out, I and the Ministry will make them clearer, of course also make us available for it. At the same time, I would like to say again, as I have actually said a number of times, that if there is a need to clarify the ideas that exist, that is, that the municipalities cannot refuse only because of the fact that the citizen is unable to carry out a rehabilitation course, and if that is to be changed a little, then I think it should be done. Because it has to be the case that things have to be clear in the text. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150845	Sir. Peter Laigaard there was perhaps another comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150851	I can only sign that the Minister is still considering these matters here too. We must then also find a concrete formula to ensure that older people have legal certainty, including the very weak ones, who may not really be able to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150902	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150908	I really wanted to ask the Minister if he would not guarantee that there will not be a single example from the municipalities that older people will be forced into rehabilitation, but now the text has to be drilled out, I understand that the Minister has said that, and I think that is really, really, really nice. It may be a little joke to say that I think we are some parties who have tried to do this in the course of this process towards the submission of this bill, but, well, if we get it drilled into committee, then I'm quite fine with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030150942	It is an outstretched hand and a good service, but I would just like to remind Mrs Mai Mercado that we have actually had debates on these texts and that the parties of the Folketing have also been invited for a technical review. Of course, you can choose not to come, but by its very nature it is also the case that this was the argument which Mrs Mai Mercado used a moment ago with regard to Mr Le Pen's report. Finn Sørensen doesn't get the influence. So everyone has just been invited to look at the lyrics, drill out the lyrics. But let's look at it; let's see if there's anything that needs to be clarified with regard to these texts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151024	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151030	We were invited, and I also remember that a few times we actually kicked in the door of the ministry, such of our own free will, because we could see that there were some problems with this. I think that is a very good thing; I would very much like to welcome the extended hand, and I would really like to sign up to the Minister to listen today and to give it another tour of the committee. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151054	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151124	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Tina Nedergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151131	Thank you. The government proposes with the bill which has been put forward here that cohabitants should have the same access to adopt together or, for example, to adopt together. to adopt one's child; or to adopt one's child; or to adopt it as a stepchild's adoption; or to adopt it as a married couple today; or to adopt it as a stepchild's adoption; or to adopt it as a married couple. We in the Left believe that this is a sensible proposal. If a couple have lived together for a long time as married couples, but without the papers, this relationship can be as stable for a child and create as good a framework for a child as a marriage relationship can. In the Left we have the point of departure that it is essential that the child, in so far as it is necessary for adoption, is placed in the place where the child will be best located, and an institution such as marriage should neither encourage nor prevent one from doing so. We therefore agree with the Government's intentions in the draft law. Unfortunately, we are very critical of individual parts of the bill. There is a reservation on our part about the fact that as couples who adopt children, they should not meet the requirements for marriage. When you are a married couple, it means in practice that you are not married to others, because it forbids legislation, but I can see from one of the ministry's answers to a hearing answer that in this case you will actually be able to live together for many years, but married to a third party and then have access to adoption. We in the Left are even very critical of that part. In fact, we also believe that this discrimination actually loses part of the intention of the bill, since it is a goal in itself to have equality in Denmark between couples and married couples in terms of their fundamental rights as human beings. In addition, we believe that it is not as crucial as the second one that a little more words may be needed on how to interpret cohabitation in the mention. I can see from comments on the bill, and of course we also acknowledge that the government attaches great importance to the fact that you have been living together at the same place of residence for 21⁄2 years. This is also a very good starting point, but I do think that it is not a condition, however, that we should try to discuss whether or not there are other things that could rightly be taken into account, as we are in relation to, for example, the Minister. foster families make very rich demands. These may be excellent demands, but at least they are tougher than the requirements here. What is important to us at first reading is that we fully agree with the intentions of the draft law. We believe that it is absolutely right to give cohabitants this right to adopt and, above all, we consider it relevant insofar as a couple have been living with the daughter or son of one party for a few years if, for example, they have been living with the daughter or son of another party. has been a widower or widower that, in practice, the new parent also acquires legal authority over the child, as if he had been married. So, on the whole, we find it very positive that the government has tabled this bill, and I would have liked us to have done so ourselves. But we also hope, of course, that the Minister will be sympathetic to these points. It is almost a condition for us to be able to support the proposal and, secondly, it is more a matter of getting closer to it may also be in questions and answers in committee. I certainly believe that we can reach an agreement. We in the Left will certainly be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151552	Thank you. It is not customary to ask questions to the other rapporteurs from up here. It's usually something you do down from your place, but now it doesn't have the character of that type of question, but of course I'm really interested in hearing about what it is that the Left imagines when it was mentioned that there are other criteria in relation to the foster families. But, of course, we will have to discuss this further in the committee's work. We will also have plenty of opportunity to talk about this with each other there. What is really the question when we deal with this is whether you become a better mother or father from being married, and there I am completely in line with what has been said from up here: of course you are not. This isn't about the papers. And, of course, as a Social Democrat, I do not think that marriage in this context is essential in itself. What matters is how you are as a human being and whether you are able to care for a child, whether your relationship is healthy and stable, and whether you have a deep desire to carry both those pleasures, but also the very many duties that result from having responsibility and also legal responsibility for a child. Today, it is a little absurd because we do not actually distinguish between whether a couple is married or not, if the relationship no longer works. If it is the case that you break up and there is a need to pay child support or to agree on association around the kids, then we do not distinguish. It does not really matter whether people have been married or not; it is the same set of rules that apply. But we'll make a distinction when things go well. It's actually a little weird. Some legislation has somehow followed with time. As people began living in Polish, we have changed the legislation, but some of it has not changed. Today, it is simply so flat out that you cannot adopt with each other if you do not have paper on each other that simple it is or if the people we are talking about could, by the way, be approved for adoption after a tour of the church or the town hall. That's what we want to make right with this bill. The proposal simply means that it will be possible for non-marital cohabitants to adopt together. As it is today, one party in a paperless relationship can then be allowed to adopt even more absurdly, but then it is as sole adopter. You are considered a single applicant if you are not married to the person you are in relation to or live with. But that doesn't mean that the partner doesn't count in the assessment. That's what they do. But you get approved as an exclusive adopter. He/she may not be involved in adopting but is assessed as to whether or not he/she is fit to be part of his/her residence and all that. This is, of course, all very positive, but why on earth not also provide the opportunity for him to take legal responsibility. The partner's gonna be a parent anyway. We then propose that the same rules apply to married couples and to couples living together, which means that you have to have lived together for 21⁄2 years in order to be approved for adoption. This means that we ensure that the relationship must be stable, both to the delight of the adoptive parents, of course, but most of all to the delight of the adoptive child. In doing so, we are ending the discrimination between adoptive children that exists today. The proposal also means that it is possible for cohabitants to adopt each other's children with the effect that it becomes a common child, that is, what is called the adoption of stepchildren. So these are both foreign adoptions and the cases where you live with someone who has your own child, for whom you would also like to be a legal parent. We believe that this bill basically benefits both the adoptive children and, of course, the unmarried couples, because it means that the adoptive children are guaranteed two legal parents, whether they will live with a married couple or a paperless couple, and then, of course, because cohabitants now have the same rights and obligations in relation to adoption as married couples have. That is why the Social Democratic Party can of course support the government's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151944	There is a brief comment from Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030151948	Thank you. The rapporteur chose to ask me some questions when the rapporteur was up as rapporteur. It would have been easier in short remarks to me. However, I should just like to say very quickly that I believe that we have actually come very, very far if it is the case that we can reach agreement with the government and the governing parties and, hopefully, a broad majority in the Folketing that, in order to obtain the right to adopt as cohabitants, the same conditions must be met in order to enter into marriage. In fact, I was just aware that the Adoption Board is also involved in this field and is working on it a little or at least mentioning it in their hearing answer, namely that they actually assume that cohabitants have to live up to the rules that they also impose in order to enter into marriage. In order for a couple to adopt, they have entered into a marriage, and there are certain conditions for this, such as: that you should not be married to others. It's kind of funny that it doesn't apply to cohabitants who adopt them, they're supposed to be married to somebody else. We don't have to discuss it, because then I would have liked to stand up on the platform if I were to be honest. I would like to ask briefly whether the Socialists would be interested in trying to engage in dialogue to try to find a framework for this, which would also facilitate the adoption appeal board's ability to handle those tasks when they are presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152127	Well, first of all, I would like to say that it was actually also to clarify what it really was about. I think I now understand a little more what it was all about. I could not just see what it was like with regard to those criteria, but it was because I was thinking about the adoption of a stepchild and I think the rapporteur was thinking about the adoption of a foreign child. So now I understand what was talked about in the first part. I would say that, of course, we are open to discussing these matters. I always think that when we are dealing with children, it must be the case that we think as widely as possible in the Danish Parliament and that we think all perspectives into it. Because I really think that's how we do the best for the child. So I think we should use the committee work very carefully in relation to this. Then the rapporteur asked about the position of the Social Democratic Party in relation to the appeal section. We are, of course, open to looking at the elements raised by the Left in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152214	Then there are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152226	Thank you. Politically, there has been a lot of debate over the last year on adoption. The focus has been on the subject because there were some factors that were not appropriate in the area of adoption. Primarily, there was the whole question of the best interests of the child, how it could be ensured that it is the key element in implementing a successful adoption. For the Danish People's Party, there is no doubt that consideration for the child's best interests must be at the heart and must also apply when we are today discussing adoption between cohabitants. For us, adoption, both foreign adoption and the adoption of a place-child, must be something that can ensure the safety and stability of the child in everyday life, where, as a starting point, there must be certainty that the framework in which the child lives must be characterised by the fact that it must not be easy, that there can be a break-up and marked change. Other family patterns can certainly give children a safe and good upbringing, but for the Danish People's Party the marriage is something special. Marriage should continue to be the starting point for family life with children, and we do not believe that a paperless relationship with marriage can be equated. An equivalence of paperless conditions proposed by the proposal can be regarded as an advantage, and we do not think that should be the case. Should that be so, I could ask the question: Why keep marriage as an institution? I may be concerned that the adoption of this bill could lead to confusion in the life of the child involved. What happens if, for example, a biological mother and her partner, with whom she is not married and has only known for a few years, simply breaks up? The child is adopted by this one, the mother finds a new man who, after perhaps years of cohabitation with the biological mother, wants to adopt the child, etc. etc. What if the biological father suddenly shows up and wants to adopt his own biological child? There are many scenarios that can suddenly appear and that I think will make a child's upbringing more restless and unstable. The Danish People's Party also opposed the introduction of immediate divorces. It may well be that it allows adults to break quickly with each other without perhaps trying to preserve marriage despite the difficulties that may have arisen, but this can affect the children involved in particular. We believe that there is a risk that the best interests of the child may be neglected when parents can quickly break with each other, and we also see this danger with this proposal. We believe that, in order to ensure the best possible and most stable adoption, this should be done between two who are married to each other. One can understand that there may be a desire to adopt the other party's child or children in order to ensure them the best possible, but we actually find that a relationship that has only existed for two and a half years without marriage does not, as a starting point, guarantee the stability that we want to safeguard the child. For the Danish People's Party there is something very special and binding about the decision that two people make when entering into marriage. It is a landmark in life, just as it is landmark to have children, including those you have adopted. In our optics there is, as a starting point, a greater degree of bondage in the traditional marriage. With reference to the aforementioned law on immediate divorces and the possible adoption of this bill, we think that it is developing into a bit of a slippery path, where it is the needs and wishes of adults that are prioritised rather than the best interests of the child. We want to express our opinion that marriage as an institution is something very special and that children, biologically or adopted, have the opportunity, in marriage in particular, to be guaranteed a foundation for a hopefully good life. I cannot help thinking that when a partner wants to adopt his girlfriend's child and thus also secure it legally, why not marry? What would actually speak against it if you love the parent and you love the child that you want to adopt?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152630	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party is opposed to exclusive adoption. Because it is the case today that cohabitants can actually adopt together and form a family. Legally, it's just the one parent who does it. This then means that there will be children and it is there then today that is at risk of having only the right to have their one parent, even though they live for many years with two who are cohabiting. Does the Danish People's Party consider that single adoption is problematic? It's just...
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152717	I would just like to make it clear that I also hope that Mrs Pernille Skipper listened to my speech, which indicated that we have full respect for the diversity of family patterns. But we must also say, on the basis of our ideology, what we think is optimal. And we believe that something of a slippery slope is actually emerging. In fact, I was trying to outline a scenario too, which may have been thought, but in a few years maybe not so thoughtful. That is why I say again that it is the best interests of the child that we need to think about, even when we are dealing with this proposal, and then we have to deal with this bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152745	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152749	I very much agree with the points made by the rapporteur, both that the Danish People's Party has the right to have its own position. Actually, that's what I'm trying to raise a question about. Is it really the best interests of the child to exclude children who are adopted by two parents, in fact two parents, from being legally entitled to two parents because they are cohabiting and because only single adoption is possible today? I ask whether the Danish People's Party does not find this problematic and whether the optimal ideology of the Danish People's Party means that only married couples can adopt, and only married couples can be proper parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152842	I do not like that expression with proper parents, for there is hardly anything else, no matter what family pattern you have. We just have to deal with this proposal where it is outlined that you live as two people, cohabitants, and that you have apparently chosen not to marry and that you want to adopt the other's child so badly. Again, I think it is the best interests of the child that we should put highest, and I do not think we are doing that in the best way possible with regard to this proposal, and that is why we have the position that we have then expressed today and I had no doubt that Enhedslisten would have a different position.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152911	There is a brief comment from Mrs Tine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152914	Thank you. Will the rapporteur not elaborate on what the slippery path, which the rapporteur believes to be able to identify, is actually about?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030152930	Well, I'd love to. I actually gave an example of that, and that is that we can suddenly find ourselves in a situation with a child where there are more who will actually be able to say that they want to be parents of the child. Now I can again give the thought example that you are a woman and live with a man for a shorter period of time because I really don't think 21⁄2 years is that long. Then it happens that her partner or girlfriend adopts the child, and if they break up, this person is still gone the child's father. If she then moves along with a new one, who may influence the whole child's upbringing and who says he wants to adopt that child, then it is actually not possible. And another loop on it is, what if suddenly a biological father shows up saying he actually wants this baby? There I think it will all of a sudden be on the grounds of vosks and not on the grounds of the child. It may well be that we are saying today that it is not conceivable. I am just afraid that in a few years' time we will be in a situation where we have some of those scenarios, and I am not prepared to back that up today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153023	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153026	But would the rapporteur not agree with me that using the term slippery is often a matter of quantity, that is to say, suddenly you see a great many cases of families crashing together or something else. Can the rapporteur again try to elaborate on what the word slippery means in this context? One theoretical example can be identified, but does the rapporteur seriously believe that more and more relationships will break together to the detriment of the child only because we are introducing this amendment to the adoption law?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153103	Well, I don't have to deal with why people really break up. It has to be said that there are a great many people today who are being divorced 46-47 per cent. Danish marriages are breaking up, and I think that in principle is deeply tragic. However, when the rapporteur asks about this with a slippery slope, I would like to say that I have outlined it in this way, and I would just like to say in peace that for us marriage is something very special, and that is why we believe that it is an institution that must have a special status and that we must do everything possible to preserve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153133	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mie Bergmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153146	[Sound emission]... amendment of the Audit Act so that cohabitants can adopt together. The old adoption law came into force in 1972, so it's time for an update. Since 1972, the development of family patterns has changed, so this bill introduces the possibility that cohabitants, on an equal footing with spouses, can adopt including the adoption of the other's child, i.e. the adoption of a place child, and the requirement is that the cohabitants adopt together so that the conditions are met. I have noted that the Children's Terms are satisfied with the bill, as it takes into account the modern forms of cohabitation. Over time, it has become common to live together on marriagelike conditions. In the 1960s it was impossible to rent an apartment without having a marriage certificate in hand. It's not like that today. As you know, times change, so the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Mach from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153301	I shall be very brief. SF can, of course, support this bill, as it helps to make adoption legislation more up-to-date so that it escapes with today's family patterns, which are based both on marriage and cohabiting couples regardless of gender. Of course, for the sake of the child, it must be assumed that there is a stable relationship and there are already requirements in the rules in force, namely the two and a half years of cohabitation. Fortunately, this bill is also supported in all the consultation responses, and also what is most important in this context is the best interests of the children's organisations, among others. Children's Terms and Children's Council. One small important thing that the adoption authorities are also looking at right now is whether you can change the 21⁄2 years of cohabitation in those situations where a female couple is so formulated in the Minister's consultation note that they must have a child and be parents together. So, can you change the practice in that case? This is something we would very much like to discuss further in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153410	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next in the series of speakers is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153419	Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. It happened all of a sudden here. As several have mentioned from up here, it is quite common today that you are not necessarily married, even if you start family and bottle children in healthy and stable surroundings. It also happens that both married couples and cohabitants break apart and children get caught up, unfortunately. On the other hand, there are also lots of people who live quite fine and safe and nice in both divorce families and rainbow families with step- and cardboard parents and all kinds of other related things that only benefit the community. That is the reality, and that is why, in the view of Enhedslisten, this bill does little more than bring legislation into line with reality by ensuring that it is not the status of marriage, but the stability of the family that is crucial to the possibility of adoption. Then the legislation in this area will fall into disrepute with other parts of family law, and I also think that one of the basic prefaces we are gradually talking about when we talk about family law and family law is first and foremost the child's best interests and consideration for this. According to the draft law, stability is guaranteed by the fact that couples living together must meet the same requirement as married couples today, in 21⁄2 years' prior life. We must therefore be sure that, as far as possible, this is a family that can provide continuity in everyday life and life. If I have the time, I will return briefly to the fact that it may also be a little too rigid in some cases. Most importantly, we believe that this bill strengthens the rights of the child. What matters to us is not that couples living together are treated in the same way as married couples. What matters to us is that the children of cohabiting couples have the same rights as the children of married parents. It is about the child's right to two parents, at least even. It is important that cohabitants not only have the opportunity to adopt together, but are also excluded from being soleadoptants. In other words, if you are two people who want a child together, that child must in future have the two parents, and they must have the right to both parents, regardless of whether love breaks and you choose to move apart later. If we keep the current legislation, for a child of cohabitation in the future there will be a risk of losing one of its two parents if they break up, and with this bill there will be two parents, and the child will have the right to both of them. That is why the Enhedslisten supports the proposal. I would also like to mention, as the SF rapporteur did, and as has also been mentioned in the hearings, that we have a huge problem with this requirement of 21⁄2 years in relation to the children of two mothers. We have solved it far along the way with the agreement on co-maternity, but it is therefore a huge problem for those women whose children have stable family life and who choose home insemination for one reason or another. They have to wait two and a half years for the child to have both his mothers. We simply cannot be aware of this to the children, and that is why I am also looking forward to some sort of solution to this problem. I think it's something we almost all know in here is a problem out there in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153820	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153824	I would like to put a very brief question to Mrs Pernille Skipper. It's about a quote, and I repeat: that the child is entitled to two parents, at least even. ▪ How many parents can a child have maximum?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153846	Well now I don't live quite in the world that the Danish People's Party sometimes lives in, where families are father, mother and children. Well, sometimes you have doubts about whether there can be more than two children, and that they also have to have different genders, because then you fill all the boxes. So families today are many different things. There are families where, as a child, you have two mothers, but also, in practice, a father. There are families where you as a child have cardboard, place and everything in both grandparents and parents. And I think that what this is all about is that as far as possible we have a family law that allows children to have the right to what is really their family, and not what the Danish People's Party has an idea of being a family in such an old-fashioned view.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153939	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030153942	It is unbelievable, as Mrs Pernille Skipper knows what the Danish People's Party believes in this area and can put it into practice here, so say that we have an old-fashioned view, and it may be that it is perhaps very good in this context. Mrs Pernille Skipper did not reply at all to how many parents a child can actually have. I would like a very specific answer to that. Then perhaps I also think that Pernille Skipper has had his ears closed a little while when I gave my speech, because there I actually say quite clearly that there are more family patterns that can give children a safe and good upbringing. I think Mrs Pernille Skipper must sign for that. So for the whole person who was looking for talk that you want it to be a woman and a man and a girl and a boy: I just think it's quite in the air to say something like that. In fact, I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper should answer the question I am asking: how many parents can a child really have?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154036	I'm actually trying to answer the question, you know, I'm actually trying to say that I think it's an old-fashioned way of seeing families if you're gonna put numbers on and boxes on what can be families. And there are children who have more than two parents in the real world. That's what family patterns are today, and you can have that. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. So I'm actually trying to answer the question. I have also heard that the Danish People's Party recognises that there are more family patterns. I just see that the Danish People's Party votes against any form of legislation that makes sure that children who grow up in the different family patterns are actually also entitled to their family and their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154124	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the next one in line, and that's sir. Peter Laigaard, as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154133	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. After all, the bill refers to the fact that Section 5 of the adoption law states that it is a prerequisite that persons can only adopt together if they are married. That's why couples who live together without being married can't adopt. We know very well that the family patterns have also been put forward by other rapporteurs here from the Chair of the European Parliament, which has changed a lot since 1972 when the adoption law came into force. The divorce rate is around 50 in Denmark. Of course, we can very much regret this, but it is just a fact that people are living in the way they have chosen. At the same time, there are also a number of other considerations, such as: the hereditary area that means that people don't just have to remarry who can keep them from doing this. We are pleased with the bill that is here. This is precisely what has been guaranteed in the past for registered partnerships in the context of adoption. We are also pleased that the demand for the 21⁄2 years will take account of the stability that a relationship has to contain. In practice, people will probably think about it before they start adopting. Mrs Pernille Skipper raises a problem about it with the same sex, and I can see there that when you have already planned it from the beginning, it does not sound quite right that you have to wait 21⁄2 years. That does not sound quite right, so it must also be something that needs to be looked at. But in principle, in the Liberal Alliance, it is fair enough that there is a certain amount of waiting time. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154313	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wanted to make a brief comment. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado as the last rapporteur in the series of speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154322	I can say quite briefly that in the Conservative People's Party we support the bill. It has been discussed a great deal from the platform here today that it is the child's best interests that must be of decisive importance. We agree with that. When it comes to the question of breaking up or uniting the family, we believe that this is something that helps to bring the family together, because we just have to realise that the time is for new family forms. I do not think that we should be dictating what is right and wrong, whether or not we should enter a marriage. From our point of view, you are neither more nor less family if you live paperless instead of being married. As far as I am concerned, I can say that I myself am a stepchild adopted, and I can now stand and be quite happy that my parents have my mother and stepfather, as they were then married. I've never given it a thought that if they just had boyfriends, I couldn't have been adopted. But what was at least the case in my case was that I grew up in a family with both a mother and a father. Conservatives can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154425	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the Minister for Children, Gender Equality, Integration and Social Relations to pick up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154434	Thank you so much. I would like to thank you for the discussion we have had and also for the comments that have been made on the legislative proposal. The adoption law has been continuously modernised and adapted to the way we live in Denmark, as a couple of rapporteurs have said. First, registered partners were allowed to adopt, and later, when it became possible for people of the same sex to marry, the adoption law was also applied to these couples. I am also very pleased that, with this latest shot on the trunk, we are now also giving cohabiting couples the opportunity to adopt together. We have become aware of the need to table two amendments to the draft law. See, it is really fast to make amendments already. One amendment concerns the law on citizenship, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. This is an impact change to ensure that foreign children adopted by cohabitants automatically acquire Danish citizenship in the same way as foreign children adopted by spouses or singles. The second amendment seeks to clarify that cohabitants are given custody by adoption. The amendments will be tabled as soon as possible. I would just like to say that I am really, really pleased with the broad support for the legislative proposal, which hopefully means that the proposal can be adopted and enter into force on 1 January 2015. With these words, I would like to thank you very much for a good debate, unless, of course, there are questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154620	There is a brief comment from Mrs Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154626	Thank you. As I said, we in the Left would very much like to support the proposal, but we have a concern that the couples living together should not meet the demands of marriage, including not being married to a third party. I really hope that the Minister will discuss this with us, because we would very much like to reach agreement with the government on this bill, but they have concerns. I would like the Minister to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154700	I would like to enter into a dialogue. I would also like to look forward to it being a little more specific, as I think the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned. But from what I have heard, there are some reasons for some of those things. For example: there can be very special reasons why you do not want to divorce, even if you do not live with your mate and have not done so for some time. There may be some very special cases where an applicant is married but lives with someone other than the spouse and wants to adopt with his or her partner. This may be the case, for example, if the applicant does not wish to divorce or has initiated a divorce proceedings which have not been concluded and where the closure of the case is delayed. These may also be some other nuances, as the rapporteur has said, but I am, of course, willing to enter into a dialogue on some of the different nuances of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154803	Tina Nedergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154805	Thank you. Well, there may well be reasons why you're not divorced. These are just the reasons that concern us a little bit. In fact, we find it a little strange that a couple living together should be interested in adopting a child together if they still have obligations. There are also legal obligations to be married to a third party. That is why we certainly need to find out why we do not need to have that concern. I would say to the issue of divorces that drag on, that then it is because you do not want them. Because it has to be said that it has become easy for any couple who wish to break up their marriage today to do so. And among other things... Therefore, it does not make sense to distinguish between couples and couples in terms of adoption, because it is so easy to get out of a marriage too. But thank you for your statement. We look forward to further discussions during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154903	I'll look forward to it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154908	Then it seems that no one else has asked for the floor. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154930	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030154944	Thank you. The bill here consists of two parts: one part is about simplifying the measurement system for helping to cover additional costs for children who have reduced functional capacity or an intrusive suffering, and the other part is about correcting a few errors which are in the Service Act and which are about children and young people who need special support. It's a very complicated measurement system we're using today. It is simply the case that we are all down and counting in eighths of a standard amount, etc., and that means that we should try to be realistic and say that it could be made simpler. The government then proposes here just to try to abolish the measurement system and instead do it in such a way that parents can get paid the actual probable additional costs, and then the amount is rounded up to the nearest whole crown. It is in itself a good simplification...[Sound emission] The proposal also has a clarification that the condition for obtaining aid to cover additional costs is that expenditure cannot be covered elsewhere, i.e. under another legislation. It also makes very good sense, but the clarification has not been included in the past. In the Left, we are happy to support initiatives that can help ease the administrative burdens that we have around our system, and therefore, of course, we also support this simplification of the measurement system. We just need to say that it is actually interesting with the corrections that are now being made to children and young people with a need for special support, because it is good that we have network care families who will again be able to complain to the Ankestyrelsen if they find that there is a decision on the cost of meeting the child's needs and they are not satisfied with the municipal decision that has been made. That is fair enough, and we shall have it re-examined. There is also the restoration of the legal basis for setting rates for board and lodging, and there is the restoration of the obligation to sign for intercommunal notifications. Finally, it has also now been written that the penalty is removed from the provisions of the Services Act. So all in all, it is actually very good that we should clear up a little bit and get some relief from the administrative burdens, so overall the Left is well pleased, we support the proposal. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155241	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has signed up to short remarks. Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil as rapporteur for the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155250	Thank you. As a Social Democrat, I am fundamentally of the opinion that people with disabilities must have the same opportunities to participate in society and realise their potential as everyone else. That is why I am also pleased that, with the disability policy plan of October last year, we finally had 10 years in my view of the VKO impasse in this area. The plan means, among other things, that Denmark has now finally acceded to the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on Disability, and therefore people with disabilities and other citizens can now complain to the UN Disability Committee if the Convention is violated and all redress procedures in Denmark have been exhausted. In addition, the plan means, among other things, that we have set up an anti-discrimination unit and we are working to increase accessibility in general housing, cultural services and public transport. I would also like to say here that I am very pleased that we have agreed with the rate-pool agreement to allocate millions of kroner to projects which improve the situation of disabled people in various ways. Having said all that as an introduction, I think most people who have read this bill will know that one has to make such an introduction because there is so much technique in this bill and, in fact, so little substance that if one does not make such an introduction, there is very little to say. This is technology, and it is a step in the right direction, and it makes it easier for some people to fight with a system; it makes it easier for some municipalities to fight with an otherwise incalculable amount of bureaucracy. And then I don't think you can boil much more soup on it. It is a fine little technical proposal and it is a step in the right direction. Social democracy can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155423	Thank you. There was now a question from Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil who could apologize! )
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155432	That is the loving greeting that the rapporteur sent to the VKO. I had the impression that we had a positive, good tone when we started, and then there came such a spanking that there had not been one in the ten years in the field of disability. Can we not agree that it was in Bendt Bendtsen's time as Minister of Business that the disability convention was signed in Denmark? And yes, it is true that last year an additional protocol was then adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155509	Yes, we can easily agree on that, that is to say both the first part and, in particular, the part concerning the fact that the Additional Protocol came under us first. I think we should spice up the afternoon a little, and then I really think there is reason to welcome the fact that we have actually made a relatively massive effort with our entire disability action plan, and I think that, in fact, would hardly have been born under the VKO if I had to make a good guess. So Bendt Bendtsen must of course be honored for the things Bendt Bendtsen should be honored for, but I think that the disability action plan everything else has just grown in our backyard, and I think there is good reason to be proud of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155542	Mrs. Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155545	We are pleased to do a great deal together in the field of disability, including most recently in the wagering pool agreement. So I would now like to maintain that we are good at doing something together in this area, and then we do not have to take more or less of the credit of the parts that are, and many things have happened, including the last ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155608	We have made a very good agreement on the rate pool jointly with each other and, by the way, in a very good negotiating climate, but think about how we were able to extend a debate on an otherwise unlikely technical proposal so that we actually had it forced into the disability debate. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155622	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl as the next rapporteur, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030155628	I can then start by saying that I agree with the former rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, that we have made a very good wager pool agreement together. This bill has been a long time along the way. There has been the Reichsaudit, which made a report in 2012, and we have held consultations on the subject and also asked several questions. The Ministry's review of the municipalities' audit reports has also shown, just as the National Audit Office has concluded, that there are generally many municipalities which have errors in the areas of additional expenses and lost earnings. There has been a great need to get this done here, as several people have also pointed out, including parents who have been associated with the Disability Centre Copenhagen, who have written to us on the Social Committee. This bill has been submitted for consultation on 23 June 2014 with the deadline for replying on 5 August. It has then been in the middle of the summer holiday period, and that is probably why no more consultation answers have been given. However, the draft law simplifys the measurement system for helping to cover additional costs for children with disability or intrusive suffering in Section 41 of the Services Act and clarifies the scope of the additional cost allowance. This is done by changing the measurement system so that the benefit paid is determined on the basis of the probable additional costs and rounded to the nearest full amount of DKK 100, and by specifying that aid under Section 41 of the Services Act is subsidiary to aid under other legislation and other provisions of the Services Act. The purpose of this bill is to establish a closer link between the actual needs of each child for help to cover additional costs and the benefits paid and to facilitate the administration of the scheme by the municipalities. There will then be simplification in the form of the abolition of continuous recalculation and instead we will have an annual recalculation. This is something I would like to ask the Minister, in other words, what consequences it can have for families who have a child with a disability if they can get into financial trouble and find themselves in some situation where they cannot afford to pay for it here. So the Minister may reply to that in committee. In addition, there are also changes in the rules on children and young people with a need for special support. This implies the restoration of network care families' right to appeal against decisions on costs, the restoration of the legal basis for setting rates for board and lodging, and rules on lost earnings for network care families, and the restoration of the obligation to sign for intercommunal notifications. And then the penalty will also be removed from the penal code of the Service Act. In addition to that, I would like the Minister to reply in committee to the question of when a guide to this law will be sent out, as the Ministry has written that more examples of additional costs will be given in the forthcoming guide, which could be covered if the conditions are otherwise met. Often we experience from in here that guides come out too late to the municipalities, and then mistakes happen. I have asked about the annual recalculation, and I would just like to say in conclusion that all in all we find in the Danish People's Party that it is a step in the right direction. And then we also have an obligation to follow up on the National Audit Office and the citizen's requests we have received about the additional expenses. We look forward to the cooperation of the committee and hope that this will come about very well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160021	I would like to thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Radical Left, Mrs Mie Bergmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160032	Thank you. We were born equal and yet not. Some children are born with or suffering from significant and lasting disability or intrusive chronic and long-term illness. As a society, we have a responsibility to give those children and their families as good opportunities as possible. One of the ways to do this is to help cover the necessary additional costs if you support children under the age of 18. This is a good and important step, but it has also been shown that the system we have built up has become just a little too cumbersome, so we want to simplify that. In future, the amount should be rounded to the nearest 100 DKK, so that the municipalities no longer have to round to the nearest 1/8 of the standard amount in the somewhat complicated measurement system. At the same time, we want a closer link between the measured performance and the concrete need for help by reducing the level of over- and under-compensation. On the other hand, we do not change the minimum threshold for when support can be obtained. Therefore, in 2015 it will amount to DKK 4.596. per year corresponding to DKr 383. per month. The Radical Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160158	I thank Mrs Mie Bergmann and we will move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the SF, Mrs Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160206	Thank you. SF sees as our colleagues with great sympathy for the bill, which can help simplify the measurement system in the municipal case. After all, we know that current legislation is experiencing both complex and administrative difficulties and, above all, unclear for citizens. There are a few things that we have attached ourselves to in the hearings and that we really want to discuss in the future work of the Committee on Social Affairs, namely that which Danske Handicap organisations, among other things. points out that there may be a risk that the proposal will put citizens at a disadvantage than it is today, because in future there may be uncertainty as to whether the costs already incurred, for example, will be borne by the public. price increases and new types of expenditure can be expected to be covered subsequently. The Institute for Human Rights, which, moreover, considers this simplification to be positive, points out that families with very little economic room for manoeuvre risk having to bear additional costs for themselves for up to one year before they can be reimbursed retroactively, and recommends that an option be added, in exceptional cases, for a new fixing of the additional cost allowance before one year has elapsed since the last establishment. We would very much like to be able to discuss this in future work, because we think it makes sense that families with a tight economy should not bear the costs themselves for so long. Finally, we need to clarify the question of how families who have re-evaluated their additional costs before the proposed entry into force have been re-evaluated. We look forward to the further work in committee and think it is a good legislative measure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160342	Thank you to Mrs Trine Mach. Then it is the next rapporteur and that is Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160348	We in the Enhedslisten can well support the relatively modest proposals for simplifying the rules on additional costs for parents who have children with disabilities. As the SF and the Danish People's Party say, we are also concerned that some parents will be in a position to get caught up in this, with the fact that you no longer have a legal requirement to be able to get a refund immediately, how many additional costs you can get refunded, if the situation changes. So this means that it can now go as far as 1 year before you can get such a recalculation. So it sounds like we can co-operate with Dansk Folkeparti and SF to search it further in the committee work, and that's really fine. Having said that, I would like to call for more ambition in this area. For it is quite right, as several rapporteurs have said, that this system of helping to cover the extra costs of a child with a disability is extremely complicated, incredibly bureaucratic and very, very difficult to find for the parents in question. In relation to how many politicians I have heard, including myself, who advocate simplifications and advocate debureaucratisations, I simply do not think enough is happening. Just to mention a few of the different paragraphs that are in play, we are talking about section 41, which we are looking at here in the Service Act, § 44, § 45, § 83, § 85 and § 95. In addition, there are rules in the health system and rules in the education law, and there are some third rules if you need help in the leisure scheme. It's a jungle for the parents, and I understand, because I'm not even sure I would be able to find my own way around it if I had a child who had that need. It also means that we are going to see some pretty absurd situations. The muscle loss fund described an example of some parents who had been given help to their child in the leisure scheme, but when the child was going to the birthday while it was in the leisure scheme and left with the classmates, one was not allowed to take the helper, for the helper had to stay in the leisure scheme because the help was not allocated for that purpose. I just think it says all about the fact that we have a very good opportunity to do much more than what this proposal proposes. The muscle-wind fund has been out with a very good proposal, which is that you make a single measurement of the needs of the individual child and come all the way around the child, what kind of help this child needs, regardless of schooling, when it comes to recreation when it comes to the home in everyday life, so that it is not the parents who have to run the root between the many different administrations. If we could then also ensure that pay and working conditions were the same, so that the same helper could be used in the different contexts, that would be very, very good. So I think there is much more to be done in the area we are talking about here. This does not change the fact that even tiny improvements can also be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160700	I would like to thank Mrs Stine Brix and give the floor to the next speaker, who is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr Stine Brix. Peter Laigaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160712	Thank you. I'll be brief. It is a good thing, as a liberal party, to be able to say that we are very positive about recommending in advance a proposal for this minor amendment to the Social Services Act, which would simplify the measurement system and so on. After all, the consultation answers are generally very positive, you can see when you read them through to the changes. I see just one municipality which notes that there may be some problems with some reimbursements, but, as I have said, we are very positive about the proposal, and we are looking forward to seeing a series of such proposals which can be simplified, especially when, as is apparent from this proposal, they do not have a cost for the state, the region and the municipality. So, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160752	Thank you, sir. Peter Laigaard, and then we go to the Minister for Children, Gender, Integration and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030160810	I would also just like to sign off on the comments that have been made to the draft law and also say with pleasure that there is so much support among the parties. As has been said a number of times, the bill creates a closer link between the individual child's need for help to cover additional costs and the benefit paid. In addition, we make the rules easier for the municipalities to administer, which has been sought after both municipal and, as Dansk Folkeparti also mentioned, by the Reichsrevisionen. Finally, I would also like to mention that the proposed changes largely align the system of additional expenditure for adults, which in itself facilitates the administration of the system. I am very pleased that the legislative proposal will, of course, solve some of the challenges that exist, and of course I am also very pleased with the support that I started by saying that there is a need to correct the errors that unfortunately have arisen in the rules of the Services Act on vulnerable children and young people. I am also looking forward to the examination of the legislative proposal in committee and, of course, I am also making myself available for questions and comments in this regard. The Danish People's Party mentioned some, and so was the SF, and Enhedslisten together with the Liberal Alliance specifically mentioned that it would be good to have a look at this area. I fully agree with that. After all, we are also looking at regulatory simplifications in the area of adult disability, and that is the path we are going to take. Now Mrs Stine Brix mentioned some very specific paragraphs. Of course, I cannot relate to them right now, but I think it is worth looking at because it is really, really difficult. Some of it can be solved. We have seen examples of this in the past, which is why I would also like to take the initiative to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to look precisely at whether there is further need and opportunity to look at other areas too, and then you can take Mrs Stine Brix's paragraphs with you. I cannot promise, of course, that it will be them, but it is quite clear, I think, a path that we should take.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161029	I can see that there is one brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161036	Thank you for the Minister's speech. I would like to ask, in relation to what I asked, namely the guidance, whether it will come out at the same time as the legislative proposal is adopted? Then I received a request from a mother who asked me if I could ask how many months it is reasonable to wait for an answer to your application when you have applied for additional expenses for your child.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161107	But I would hope that, like the other two questions, we can also take them in the course of further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161116	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161118	It is very good that the Minister invites us to the Minister and I have also discussed it earlier because, just as Mrs Stine Brix says, this area needs some good changes, but we must remember that the simplification of rules is good when it does not lead to any deterioration for citizens. So I would like to know if the Minister knows anything about when we get an invitation. I know that we have received an invitation regarding section 100 of the Service Act, but when will we get an invitation regarding the other so that we can jointly find some good solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161200	But now I have just invited less than 45 seconds ago, so of course we go to the Ministry and look at when there is a hole in the calendar, and then the rapporteurs of the various parties get the habit of an invitation. It is quite correct, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl also says, as we have done with other areas. We are doing this on the basis that, of course, we all agree that the simplification of rules is right, very good, that is the path we must take and that, of course, it must not lead to any deterioration for the citizens; that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161239	Yeah, and then there's one more question. It's Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161243	Thank you. I am also looking forward to discussing this further with the Minister and the other rapporteurs. But perhaps the Minister can already make just a few comments on the recommendation made by the Institute for Human Rights, namely that one can make an exception, so that families with a very small economic space should not have their additional costs assessed at 1 year intervals, but can have them assessed after a shorter period, for the sake of not having to bear any excessive additional costs if one has a very, very tight economy, as is the case with some families in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161319	I have also taken note of some of the things that are, and that is by its very nature also one of the things that we have the opportunity to talk to each other about between the readings and also in the committee procedure. And as Mrs Karina Adsbøl rightly said, when we go in and look at something, for example. It is not the case that it creates an even worse situation or a more difficult situation for others. So, as I have also said in relation to the other questions that have now been, I would like to look forward to making myself available for further work between the treatment procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161353	There are no more brief comments and the Minister is finished. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141030161414	Then there's nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 31 October 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I can refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
