ParlaMint-DK_20141128100000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and Morten Marinus (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 12 (What can the Minister say about the negotiations on a new public service contract with DR and about the desire to maintain the DR Entertainment Orchestra during the coming period of the agreement?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100022	The debate is open. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100051	On the basis of Sterling's bankruptcy in 2008, the bankruptcy cover of the Travel Guarantee Fund was extended to cover flights, i.e. flights alone, without at the same time buying hotel accommodation or anything else at the other end, which makes it a package trip. This then meant that it became mandatory for established air ticket providers in Denmark to offer consumers bankruptcy coverage through the Travel Guarantee Fund. Subsequently, it has happened that Østre Landsret interpreted the concept of establishment narrowly, i.e. when a company is established in Denmark, which has resulted in the scheme being limited to airlines with a physical sales office in Denmark. The consequence is that, overall, there are far fewer travel providers subject to bankruptcy protection rules than originally intended. This also means that there are far fewer consumers who can recover their expenses in the event that the airline goes bankrupt. That is why it has been decided to set up a committee to look at whether the system could be changed so that it would operate according to the original intention, namely a high level of consumer protection in the event of airline bankruptcy, and now we have a legislative proposal based on what the committee has arrived at, and there are up to now several representatives in the committee who think it is a good proposal. The only problem is that the committee members who think the proposal is good are the representatives of the ministries, whereas those who think the proposal is bad are all representatives of the industry and also of the Consumer Council. So you have managed to knit together a bill that none of those involved here, namely the industry on the one hand and the consumers on the other, think is good. I mean, it's impressive in itself. What is being proposed in concrete terms is that the Travel Guarantee Fund should be extended so that it also applies to foreign airlines, but only foreign airlines that have more than 25 000 departing passengers per year from Danish airports, and this is, in fact, a considerable number. Then it is proposed that the Travel Guarantee Fund should set up a central website to which travel providers should then refer and from which consumers can buy their bankruptcy cover. And then it is pointed out that the rules on car rental abroad are being communicated by a Danish provider and the rules on differentiated travel guarantees for charter service providers must be abolished. One should not read down very far in the consultation answers until one can wonder at the very process of the proposal. In fact, very large letters are spoken. What is being written is, among other things, that the proposal will entail substantial administrative burdens both for travel providers and for the Travel Guarantee Fund. The rules for consumers will become more opaque and the consumer protection effect will therefore be negligible. Furthermore, the imposition on foreign airlines could mean that they opt out of Danish airports, and a large number of other problems which can be read about in the comprehensive annexes to the proposal. In the left, we wonder. Why does the government propose that we force a change in the system when neither the travel industry, the consumer organisations nor the Travel Guarantee Fund itself will support it? After all, there are those who must live with the rules and benefit from them. The Left cannot support the proposal. The Left calls on the government to resume discussions with the parties so that we can have some useful and edible solutions on the table, and it is clear that the Board of Directors of the Travel Guarantee Fund, which also includes the Consumer Council, has even offered to take on the task of finding a solution that can work more appropriately for all parties. We think the extended hand should be accepted by the government, yes to the offer. The proposal is an end, it has to go back, the government has to take it off the table. At least the Left cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100504	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Is Mrs Karin Gaardsted the Socialist rapporteur? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100521	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of our business rapporteur, Thomas Jensen, I should like to read out the following speech: in recent years, unfortunately, we have seen several airlines go bankrupt. This has meant that Danish consumers have had to wave goodbye to holiday trips and that at the same time they lost the money they had paid for the trip. This is completely unacceptable to consumers, and therefore the purpose of this bill is for consumers to be offered access to bankruptcy cover when buying air tickets. The reason for the proposal is that in 2012 Østre Landsret interpreted the current rules in such a way that only airlines with a physical sales office Denmark were covered by the Consumer Protection Scheme. This meant that the airlines covered by the scheme were put at a competitive disadvantage compared to those not covered by the scheme. At the same time, it was difficult for consumers to find out where and how they could buy their bankruptcy cover. Consumers must be guaranteed easier access to bankruptcy cover and all airlines must compete on equal terms in Denmark. Therefore, the government is proposing to extend the current regime so that foreign airlines with more than 25 000 departing passengers per year from Danish airports will be covered by the scheme. At the same time, it is clarified that bankruptcy cover must be offered to consumers by establishing a central website for consumers to purchase bankruptcy coverage directly from the Travel Guarantee Fund. The travel service providers covered by the law shall clearly refer in the travel document issued to the central website from which the consumer can purchase bankruptcy cover. This ensures more uniform conditions of competition for airlines operating in Denmark, as well as good and effective consumer protection. Finally, the draft law makes a number of minor amendments, including: the provision relating to car rental abroad is repealed by a Danish provider and the differentiated guarantee for charter travel providers is abolished. The draft law has been tabled on the basis of recommendations from the committee which sought to find a solution to the problem. The committee is divided into their recommendations, but with this bill we follow the majority position. The legislative proposal balances the concerns of consumers and companies in a good way, while at the same time creating more fair competition and ensuring consumers against losses resulting from the bankruptcy of travel companies. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party are proud to be able to offer Danish consumers better protection and thus greater security, including in connection with air travel. At the same time, we think it is important that this happens in a way, so that there is still room for business in Denmark as well. That is why the Socialists support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100830	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100835	Now the rapporteur is talking about ensuring that consumers have easier access to bankruptcy cover and that this is a good and effective consumer protection. Then I would ask the rapporteur to imagine the following situation: the rapporteur is going to London with Norwegian. You choose travel and airline online, provide all relevant personal data and travel data, enter credit card information, get a confirmation of your trip, and you pay DKK 795. on his credit card. Then you are referred to a new website, namely the Travel Guarantee Fund's central bankruptcy cover page. Here you first have to read about who can buy bankruptcy cover, whether you are covered at all and what the bankruptcy cover is. Next, you have to provide all your relevant personal data and travel data, then you have to provide a booking identification, then you have to enter your credit details, then you get a confirmation of the bankruptcy cover, and then you pay 20 DKK. on this website. Hands on the heart: how many think the rapporteur will spend time on this, and does the rapporteur imagine that if she was going to travel she would spend time on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128100956	In fact, I think that is a very good question. We had a delegation in the committee yesterday where we discussed these things. I would say that I think that is one of the things the committee is going to look at, but at the same time I would say that it is voluntary to have bankruptcy cover. I thought about yesterday whether it would be possible to do so directly when you book your ticket, but we have to realise that there are many Danes who also book their flights on foreign airline operators' websites. The question is whether we can demand that foreign websites include a marking that you can take out the insurance directly while booking your ticket. I hope that we will be able to clarify this when we do the committee work. We need to make this as flexible as possible. I am very prepared to do so. One might say that by making a special website it is done the same for everyone, which means that people do not get so insecure when entering the different airlines' websites because there are different ways of doing so. However, I am quite sure that we will take it up during our committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101118	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101121	I asked whether the rapporteur himself would go to another website and read what it includes and enter his personal data and travel data, provide booking identification, provide credit card information, wait for a confirmation and then pay 20 DKK if the rapporteur is going to have a stroll to London with Norwegian for 795 DKK.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101147	I'd like to answer that. Yes, I would, if I were the least uncertain whether the airline I had chosen was now also a valid airline. So, yeah, I guess I would. But I say here from the platform today that in our committee work we will do everything we can to make this as flexible as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101206	A brief comment. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101212	Mrs Karin Gaardsted refers to the fact that the draft law was tabled on the basis of a majority in the committee's work. What is the majority? Who is included in that majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101227	I can't answer that right now. I admit that from here on out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101232	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101235	Is it not a matter of the fact that the ministries have now been strongly represented in this committee? Is it not the case that the majority has actually emerged from the fact that the ministries have had an influence on matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101255	I cannot actually answer that, but it may also be some of the things we are just picking up when we do our committee work. Because we are actually interested in having a system that is much better for consumers than it is today. We are also interested in the fact that it must still be very good to be able to be an airline and operate from Denmark. So our desire with this bill here is to make a strengthening, not to do something that is cumbersome or stupid or cannot be accepted by anyone. But we must also accept that there may be parties here that are not fully taken into account as they would have wished. However, it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101339	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101351	As far as I remember, there was a well-known politician who said many years ago that the way to success for a politician is certainly not to have a goal of making everyone happy. If you have a goal to please everyone, you end up with failure. This bill makes everyone unhappy, so it's very difficult to see the success, I would say, but the government has obviously chosen to make it anyway. For this is the way to failure when a legislative proposal is put forward which no party in the travel market likes either on the consumer side or on the business side. Nor is the employee side, among other things. HK has a seat in the Travel Guarantee Fund. In fact, the Board of Directors of the Travel Guarantee Fund has returned in November and I think it was on 3 November that it sent a letter to the Minister for Business and asked for perhaps 6 months' work to try to come up with some kind of draft of what could become common understanding among all the travel partners, both those on the consumer side and those on the business owners side. There seems to have been no sensitivity to this, and of course we in the Danish People's Party should regret it. We think it is common sense to do everything we can to find a solution that is sustainable also in a long-term perspective. What we are discussing here today is an incomplete law. It is a law which does not deal with any of the problems that exist in this case, among others. The whole situation with this new website that we're all going to. Now I noted that the Socialist rapporteur felt that she would at least go on this page No. 2 and then re-enter all its player information and then buy a travel warranty ticket for maybe 5, 10 or 20 DKK. In fact, quite a few would have done so in the real world. I think it's promos if you measure it in SA' ticket hatch at least. So I think it's fantastic that we have managed to find someone from the Folketing who thinks you'll do it. Now it is not long since I had the pleasure of buying five tickets with Ryanair for my wife and my three children. You enter a lot of information on Ryanair's website, a lot of information on the passport number, addresses and names, etc., and you have to remember to have a middle name if it's in the passport and all these things. Should I then start going into a new website and type in my entire family's cpr data and everything else? It will, of course, be a registration virus which is not in the interests of consumers, but is a major confusion and nuisance. The same applies to the fact that many people are already covered by their various insurance schemes. Some, for example, do. Some Codan insurances now I don't have to advertise them and they have at least a special insurance cover if you experience on a foreign trip that your tickets become worthless because of bankruptcy. There are also some who have it if they pay their tickets via credit cards, international credit cards, and of course there are also many who are aware that you can actually get a tax credit if you have a loss of more than DKK 2 000. in connection with the return journey from a journey you've been on. So there are many options already today. So if this becomes a reality, some people will end up in the name of insecurity choosing to buy another supplementary insurance for something they may already be insured against. It is not for the benefit and benefit of consumer safety or the confidence in the websites that you operate with. We in the Danish People's Party think this is a very, very complicated and hasty bill, we do not think it is right to adopt it. We believe that this entails considerable administrative burdens, it also leads to signal confusion in relation to consumers, in relation to which websites they have to discuss what additional services they have to choose. And then we also find there are problems about the risk that many of the small airline players, perhaps large on the world market, but who have relatively few routes out of Denmark, perhaps one per week, simply opt out of Copenhagen Airport because they are now about to pay extra costs if they have over these 25,000 guests on their flights per year. So I think there are so many challenges and so many things about this bill, which at least in our optics is an act of haste, and we cannot in any way support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101828	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101832	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur: now that the rapporteur says that the consumer can become very uncertain about which website to access, how can this fit in with the fact that we are proposing a central website, in other words one website where the bankruptcy protection of all companies is located?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101902	Well, it can be from that point of view, for example, that you as a consumer go online looking for some flights via Travelmarket.com or some of the others who are on the market, and then you choose and say hoof, here's a flight, I'd like to connect myself to that. Then you go to the airline's website and fill out all the information to buy the product you intend to buy. Then you don't want to have to go to another website to buy an additional insurance via a central website, which is controlled from somewhere else and where you have to connect to another system. Of course, you want to make your trade in one place on one digital platform, on one website. And that is what this draft law certainly has not taken sufficient account of in my optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101945	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128101947	I agree that the consumer wants it to be as simple as possible. That is what we want. We are trying to see if we can find a model in which we ensure that more Danes are aware that they can take out bankruptcy insurance, at least more, than there are today, when we have sometimes unfortunately seen families sitting in Turkey, etc. and couldn't get home from there. What I do not quite understand is whether the rapporteur thinks that we can demand of all foreign airlines that they should have a box on their website stating that the Danes can insure themselves here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102029	This is, of course, one of the fundamentals of this draft law, and the rapporteur says so himself: Mrs Gaardsted's party, the governing party is about to find a model. We think that these things should have been done before this bill was put forward for discussion here in the Danish Parliament. We have a completely agreed board of the Travel Guarantee Fund, which says this is no good. And it consists both of representatives of the consumer side, i.e. from e.g. Think, and by representatives of the tour operators and other sides. So I think it speaks for itself. The dialogue has simply been lacking, it has not been completed before this bill has been tabled in the Folketing. So it's in my optics lawless.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102112	Mrs Ida Auken, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102114	On the one hand, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party wants a system whereby foreign companies do not flee Denmark because it is too complicated, and on the other hand, they want to demand that all airlines incorporate it here on their websites, whether it is Emirates or Quantas or some others that may fly relatively few people out of Denmark. How can it be connected at once?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102139	It may well be that what we are asking for is a common solution from all market players, and that is what the players themselves have said they are willing to negotiate. This is what appears from the letter that we have actually received as an annex, I believe, a letter dated 3 November 2014 from the Board of Directors of the Travel Guarantee Fund, in which it is friendly to ask for this bill to be postponed and to give them the chance to make some suggestions as to what the market players themselves see as the best solution, not least in order to ensure a less administrative burden. This is where we put our lot in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102219	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102221	Could it be because it is very difficult to find a solution which, on the one hand, is very simple for consumers, because it is just a website where it is all incorporated specifically for Denmark and, on the other hand, does not make very great demands on foreign companies? Could it be because the two things, like when the rapporteur stands and speaks, contradict each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102250	It could be that it is because it would be quite so successful, compared to if you consider with this bill that a lot of Danes who want to buy travel and plane tickets, after entering all their information on the airlines side and booking their tickets, entered all their personal information, passport number and I don't know what, then have to go to another website to buy an additional fee of DKK 10 or 20. That is the scale of the problem. And that is why, of course, we are saying that this is simply not good enough. It is not in the interests of consumers, nor is it in the interests of businesses, because additional administrative burdens arise. That is why we have been asked to have this bill withdrawn, so that it had not been tabled and a solution could be found between the parties involved. That is what we support from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102345	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102354	If something has become clear from today's debate, it is of course that what consumers are concerned with, namely cheap bankruptcy cover, simple website and something that only applies to Denmark, is certainly not what the travel industry is concerned with, which the airlines are concerned with. They want to avoid having special rules for Denmark. They would very much like to avoid having to recreate their major international websites, so there is something special for Danish tickets. That is one of the problems in its entirety. We could mention many others. A committee has had two years to discuss this solution. They couldn't find a solution to it. Conversely, as a government, we faced a problem that was said that when it was a Danish company, you were covered, but you were not covered if it was a foreign company. We thought that was a problem, and we didn't think that we could offer the Danish customers. So, yes, when you have waited two years for the players and they have talked back and forth, you sometimes have to act and make a legislative proposal. What happened when we tabled the bill? Vups, then all the players came out of the bush, and then there were no limits to the willingness to negotiate and how much they wanted to find a solution to this. That is the point in its simplicity. If we hadn't tabled this bill, they wouldn't have come out of the holes with their solutions. And I think so, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen agrees. I would say that back in June, when we had a meeting on this, the solution that is now on the table was nodded by both the Left and other parties present. Either you slept in class, or you sat there and nodded to it, because I was at the same meeting. It is interesting that you may not listen to the meetings you are sitting in when you actually give the impression to a whole ministry and your negotiating partners that you think it is a good solution. So I have to say that if we think that we want a special Danish solution, then we need to find a balance by covering airlines selling flights out of Denmark. We've set a minimum limit of 25,000. We think it's all companies that sell tickets for over 25,000 trips a year that should allow for this bankruptcy cover. It is clear that it has been the case today that you went in and looked at the companies' website, but many companies do not really want to advertise bankruptcy coverage. It's just not such a great sales trick that it says in front of your website: If we go bankrupt by the way, you can buy an insurance policy here. That's why we know it's been hidden really far down on the pages. It has had the meaning that about 150,000 have bought a cover every year. That's not a lot of people compared to how many travels we have. Now, in this bill, we are asking for it to be quite clear. And once you've found out: Hey, that's the link, and it's in the same way on all the other websites or at least clearly accessible; then you know that you can just go and look. Then, of course, it's a little bit annoying that you have to get the account card back up and type in the number one more time. But that is the way it is, and I wonder if there will be some who can make a smart solution to it, too, if it is something that we expect many to use. So, all in all, I have to say that we have been in a situation where the players have been unable to agree at all for two years, and since we are presenting this bill with our proposal for a solution to an unsustainable situation, yes, the negotiating will will get under way. It is my hope that this could mean that in this legislative process we can come up with something that brings the two parties, who were very, very far apart, closer together. So of course we are ready to discuss both with the parties of the Folketing and with the industry again, but don't make it sound like there has been no dialogue. So it's been there for over two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102738	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102741	After all, the Radical Left is also on paper a kind of liberal party, and the fact that it is liberal is also about believing that people can find out things for themselves without politicians holding their hands and that there can be solutions on the market that do not have to be governed by public policy and so on. And the Radical Left believes that such things apply, for example. fire insurance, burglary insurance, shell insurance on the car, liability insurance, dog insurance and all sorts of things you can find out privately. But now we can understand that when it comes to insurance against your travel company going bankrupt even if the offers exist, even if they are out there, one simply cannot have that one does not have a state scheme here. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102832	It is true that we have a great deal of confidence in people's intelligence, and that is also why we believe that they can actually find out how to click a link on a website and buy a scheme which, because we make it together, is much, much cheaper. Sometimes the common solutions are just cheaper, which means that if the consumer can get a travel guarantee for DKK 5-20, we clearly think it is preferable rather than pulling $150, $200 or $250. Out of the pockets of consumers. It is simply sometimes the case that the common solutions are cheaper than what the market can come up with, and that is actually the case in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102906	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102908	No, it's not cheaper. It's not cheaper for this insurance scheme to cover all over the industry. If, for example, in the case of an airline which is large and well consolidated and has a large equity capital, there is a very small cost of insuring against bankruptcy for that airline. If, on the other hand, it is a very irresponsible airline with high debts and so on, it is very expensive to insure against bankruptcy in that company. When you rubbing it all, it will be a big deal, and you run the risk of irresponsible nagging those responsible, which makes it all more expensive. So it's not cheaper to make somebody pay for somebody else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128102947	I know that the Liberal Alliance believes that everyone around is nastier and that you are never concerned about finding common solutions. For the Radical Left, it is crucial that we find a solution which, for the consumer and there we think it is actually right to put the consumer at the centre of the debate is the cheapest. And it's cheaper to get a solution for about 20 kr. than it is to have to go out and give 120-130 kr. And then competition will, of course, go down on what fares come down on the other end, when we know that companies also have to add something to bankruptcy cover.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103020	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103024	Well, it sounds great when the rapporteur says that the Radicals and the government choose to put consumers at the centre, but they are, after all, the centre of the hurricane's eye, because many of them do not really understand what kind of product they are buying. It's one of the biggest problems with this, that it's imperceptible. Already today, a great many of those who buy a plane ticket and go on a journey are covered by various insurance schemes and deductions, if travel costs more than a certain amount, etc. There's a lot of places where you're covered. People are also covered if they have taken out individual insurance. Now comes a new product with which to risk getting even more confused. And that's one of the biggest challenges of all. Then the rapporteur says: well, it has been a major debate for two years with the various players. That is absolutely correct. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur after we have received a letter via the Minister on 3 November asking for 6 months ■ what the real challenge is in so trying to give them the 6 months to make proposals. Then there is actually an end date on that task. Instead of sitting maybe 3 years it is better to sit for 2 years and 6 months after all. And otherwise we can pass a law that turns out not to be appropriate, not that you, not to be correct, and then we will have to change it again in a year, for example. Why is it that the Radicals are not helping to give the parties to the agreement this extra chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103151	Well, I'm sure the Minister for Business and Growth would like to have a dialogue with the industry. The rapporteur can, of course, ask the Minister himself when he gets up on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103203	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103205	But I do not think I was given an answer to the question I put to the Radical Left, which is, after all, the party to which Mrs Ida Auken belongs now: is it not reasonable? In other words, can the Radicals not support giving a six-month chance when everyone in this area says that we can actually deal with this; if we get this six months of work, we would like to make a suggestion as to what is going to happen so that everyone can agree on it? Then it may well be that the process has gone too far before that. I do not wish to deny that, as the rapporteur is right. But why is it that the Radical Left cannot support this timeout in six months? That's not gonna happen to the world. It's actually a healthy process.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103249	The Danish People's Party, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby said so in his first comment. Well, today it is completely incalculable for the consumer. There are totally unequal conditions of competition for Danish companies and foreign companies, and we have therefore put up with this situation for over two years because we were so far apart. One side said: we do not want any regulation at all. The other side said: let us build up a fund which will come up in somewhere between 1⁄2 and 1.5 billion. kr. Then you're really far apart. You've had two more years. I'm not standing here today refusing to let the industry talk and give it time during this legal procedure. I'm just saying, for me, there has to be a solution. It's the government's responsibility. That is why, of course, we are putting the solution on the table that the parties have not been able to reach, and then we are listening to what they are saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103337	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103340	I just want to hear what an impression it makes on the radical rapporteur when the majority, who reaches a recommendation, consists of representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport, the Competition and Consumer Protection and the Ministry of Business and Growth. When it's the majority and the minority are the representatives of the industry who actually have to live with these rules, is that something you attach weight to, that is, what the government officials of the Ministry think, or do you attach more weight to what the industry and the Consumer Council think?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103417	But when the industry and the Consumer Council are so far apart that one side will have a system that costs between 0.5 billion. kr. and 1.5 billion. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And that's what happened in this case. So I think that is the right thing to do for a responsible government. And then it has to be said that it is fine that they are coming forward now and have had a whole new willingness to negotiate because we have put pressure on them. I am quite happy about that, and I look forward to seeing if they can come up with a solution. They have not been able to do so for two years, because, as many of the rapporteurs have just outlined, there are many dilemmas and it is difficult to find the balance that ensures both consumers and does not give companies unequal conditions of competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103458	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103500	That is to say, you have someone standing on one side who means one, and then you have some standing on the other side who think otherwise. That is how I must understand the radical rapporteur. Then you could either choose to do what one party wants or what the other party wants, or you could try to lie down somewhere in between and make them both somewhat equally unhappy. What I just understand the government has done is that a whole fourth solution has been chosen. Something has been chosen that no one at all except the Ministry's own representatives can see the sense in. Is that the way compromises are made in the present government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103542	At any rate, I know that we in the government are making proposals for solutions. The Left can point to the problems and say that there are some in one camp and some in the other, but you never come up with a real solution. So I would very much like to hear the proposal from the Left to resolve this dilemma, which is quite complicated, so that one side does not want any arrangement and the other side wants a scheme to somewhere between 0.5 billion and 0.5 billion. kr. and 1.5 billion. kr. What is the Left's proposal to solve the problems instead of just complaining about the solution that we others are trying to come up with and that lies somewhere between the two positions?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103616	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Sir. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103626	Thank you. I shall begin by pointing out that I am speaking on behalf of our rapporteur, Mr President. Steen Gade. The reason for the proposal is, of course, a follow-up to the Committee on the Travel Guarantee Fund's recommendations; specifically on the basis of a court decision that has shown that foreign operators have not been covered by the Travel Guarantee Fund's security for individual customers, as was the idea behind the 2010 Act. We are now trying to rectify this by including foreign companies with more than 25,000 travelers annually. After all, the proposal also eliminates the unequal competition that was actually established at the last amendment of the law. We note that the bankruptcy cover is functioning very differently today, which is why the law provides for a common model for the purchase of bankruptcy protection, to which all companies must refer on their website. As you know, the scheme for 2010 also covered car rental, but the scheme did not have any specific significance and is therefore proposed to be abolished. I think we should also note that the package travel area is, after all, regulated by an EU directive and is therefore not covered by this amendment to the law; a directive which is, moreover, under review in the European Union. Then I think we should take note of the fact that the changes at the end of 2010 were an attempt to make it better for consumers. The proposal that we are debating today on whether amendments are strictly an indication of the fact that this was not quite good enough. The hearings from e.g. Consumer Council and Others suggests, and it is to put it in nice North Jutland that there is a potential to do better. In the SF we will therefore take a positive step into the further work of the committee in order to ensure even better consumer protection in the field itself, and it is in this light that we think it is necessary to continue to work. If it turns out along the way that the Minister is prepared to do something else, then we would like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103900	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128103913	The draft law here is, in fact, an end to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr B 117, tabled by Mr Enhedslisten almost two years ago, which led to a report in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, which led to the setting up of this working party with the participation of the industry and which led to the report which, like the draft law, forms the basis for it. It has been a long journey and we do not think that the draft law meets the intentions of our own resolution. It's kind of the way we look at it. We are happy to admit that the industry has certainly not lived up to the expectations that one could rightly have of the industry. I would even say that the industry has missed an opportunity here, has messed up because you have not been able to do so and it is absolutely right, as has been said, to agree on anything. That is why the government does not need to put forward a bill that is far from the purpose, at least the purpose we had to go into this whole problem, because the aim was to improve consumer protection in the event of bankruptcies in the travel industry and, in particular, among airlines. We do not think that this objective is achieved because, on the one hand, there is the limit on the 25 000 travellers per passenger. We do not think that it is necessary to argue with a certain amount of justification that the draft law here makes it more difficult than it is today to take out a bankruptcy guarantee, although I admit that it is difficult today. That is why it is self-inflicted on airlines too that they stand as they do, and it is also clear that the airlines would prefer to be free of this system. But from there on, to create a system where you have to click back and forth between websites and pull up the information one more time, we do not think it is sensible. The original motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten was, after all, a mandatory one. ticket for travel out of Danish airports. The proposal was based on the fact that the existing system did not work, and that is also the reason for setting up the working party. The scheme did not work, and I would like to admit again that the airlines certainly do not do much to make it work, rather on the contrary. The scheme did not work because there were simply too few passengers using the scheme, and this has not least been revealed by the bankruptcy of Cimber. And with the ruling in Østre Landsret from July 2012, it was also established that foreign companies such as Norwegian, which, although providing flights out of Denmark, are not established with a physical sales office here, do not Enhedslisten admit that it is difficult to make national special rules in an area that so much works internationally, as the air traffic does. But we are also of the opinion that some should be the first, and we have always not been able to understand, even when we talk to the industry, why it is not possible to use it as a sales argument, that here we are actually offering bankruptcy insurance. This could be used to attract foreign travellers to Danish airports and Danish airlines, but the industry has a different view of this, I must admit. It is true, as has been said, that there is a request from the Travel Guarantee Fund from 3 November, which warns strongly against the proposed bill and offers, as it were, to resume the work of the Committee. There is no doubt that the proposed bill acts as a whip or a threat to what you would call it, depending on where you are now placed in the system which can help to achieve a result. After all, we think that the Minister should accept the extended hand; that is the way to look at it. In any case, Enhedslisten is primarily interested in increased consumer protection, and we do not believe that L 67 here, which we are now discussing, fulfils that objective. So we reserve our position. The Minister must convince us that he can twist his arm in the business, if I may say so, and thus get a sensible result from talking to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104355	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104400	When you prepare to give your master's speech etc., you read what the ministry writes, among other things. on economic and administrative consequences for business, and there we may have a slightly different attitude to how much it takes up. You're gonna let it go. The Ministry writes: The scheme is considered as a whole to be an administrative relief. And then you'd have to be happy. When you read SAS's hearing answer, you can read that SAS considers this to be an ill-thought-out, incomprehensible and useless legislative proposal which will contribute to unnecessary bureaucracy and significant cost increases. Does the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten think, sir? Henning Hyllested that the Ministry draws a fair conclusion when among other things. is such a hearing answer available?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104455	No, you can't say that. On the other hand, it has to be said that the industry has had their chance. That is also what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. The industry has had a chance, and somewhere you've missed it. But that should not make anyone say: unfortunately, there was a shot in the gay, and it did not succeed. That's why we're saying, "Pick up the glove or accept the outstretched hand, now to use that language, and talk to the industry again." That's why we reserve our position on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104534	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104538	After all, the travel industry, including representatives from the Consumer Council, has tried to make a joint request, even the Danish Cyclist Federation are co-signators of the request. And the answer that has come from the Minister is: I believe, however, that the travel stakeholders are far from each other in relation to this issue, so from this point of view, it is my view that it is still most appropriate to propose amendments to the law on a travel guarantee fund as planned. Mr. Henning Hyllested, that the Minister of Business accepts an outstretched hand with that answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104615	The Minister himself must answer whether he thinks it is an outstretched hand or what it is. If it is not an outstretched hand, we must help along the way and say: Well, we think we should consider it as an outstretched hand. But it is clear that it must of course be seen in the light of the fact that the industry has had the chance. Then you can always judge whether they should have another chance. In our opinion, it is not good to implement a law that does not have, what to say, just a little bit of support in the industry. But I must also say that, for the Enhedslisten, it is essential that consumer protection is improved, and we do not think that this bill does so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104700	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104712	The general aim of the draft law is to extend the current scheme for the bankruptcy of air passengers. The Liberal Alliance is fundamentally sceptical about the regime that we already have, in which the state has established a certain regime, which the airlines are forced to become part of. The Liberal Alliance is not convinced that the benefits of a State scheme are greater than the damage caused by the scheme. Airlines are not uniform companies. Some are well-powered, others are driven badly. Some have low risk and high equity, others have high risk and large loans. Under the present system, skilled companies pay for the risks, mistakes and bankruptcies of the less skilled companies. The scheme therefore creates the perfect conditions for the problem that has been called moral hazard in English. All skilled airlines lose on the scheme and all bad airlines win on the scheme. The current system also affects consumers. The airlines can only get capital somewhere, from consumers. Therefore, when bankruptcy is to be covered, consumers are hit by higher prices. The Liberal Alliance also notes that a minority in the committee that worked ahead of the bill wanted the scheme to be completely abolished. It is by no means certain that the State is best placed to address the need for bankruptcy recovery. Already today, there are several private alternatives. For example, consumers are covered by a guarantee scheme whose travel is purchased with certain debit cards, e.g. a MasterCard or an American Express. The specific legislative proposal we are discussing today does not solve any of the problems mentioned. On the contrary, the proposal seeks to include more companies and consumers in the scheme, which is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Mikkelsen as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128104933	We need clearer, clearer legislation in this area, because what are the challenges we have? Yes, we need better consumer protection than there is today in this area. It is also important, I think, from the political point of view, that there is some sort of compensation in the distortion of competition between the companies that we know will pay, and also with regard to to tour operators. Then there should also be a sensible, fair distribution of costs when talking about the administrative challenges that exist, also in relation to the proposal here for the website, and then, of course, it should be a simple system for consumers. There I think it is thought-provoking that when a committee has been set up by the government in such a complex area as this one, as the radical rapporteur said before, there are many different opinions about this, and it has been discussed for many years, it is interesting that the government does not listen at all to the industry and the players. You don't listen to the industry at all, you don't listen to the players. After all, a solution is chosen which is opposed by all the players. Then it is amazing that we should set up a committee to discuss matters and then we should not listen at all to what is being said. You don't get a more simple system with this system. We are not going to have a more reasonable competitive situation either, so it should therefore be an end in this case, an end in the sense that we in the Conservatives believe that legislation is needed in this area. We also believe that there must be a compulsory regime for all travellers, but most importantly it must be administratively simple and then there must be equal competition between tour operators and travel companies in this area. So the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128105133	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128105144	Thank you for an exciting debate. Let me start by saying that I think it is important to remember what the purpose of the whole proposal is. The aim is, of course, that we have had numerous incidents, in which a travel company, including now airlines, has gone downstairs and home, and where a large number of people have been left involuntarily at some destination and have not been able to return home again. When there have been those incidents when that has happened, there has been a lot of political goodwill in that something should now be done, because of course we cannot have such a situation, and that is why we have had a travel guarantee fund which has worked well in terms of the sale of package travel. Now there has just been a change in the pattern of consumption, so that people sort of put together their plane tickets and their hotel stays and everything else, and then the question is, how do we get this fence in? This has been the issue that we have asked a committee to evaluate and then discuss for a year, and they came up with the following result, namely that they could not agree. On the one hand, the airlines, who say roughly the same thing as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur did here today, are saying that people have to deal with this themselves, it is a risk that is out there, and why should an insurance policy be put in place at all? That is the one point of view, and that is what the airlines stand for. If you have that view and take it as a starting point, then as a political party you must also be ready, on the day things go wrong, not to stand up on TV and elsewhere, but I do not believe for a moment that a majority of the parliamentary parties will do so. That is why you might as well come up with a system where you actually make sure that people are covered. What has then been desired by consumers has been to create a compulsory system, a compulsory system in which everyone paid in and which then came to cover a guarantee of up to 1.8 billion. This is a very expensive system, for which there has not been a majority. After having been sitting and talking to each other for a long time and discussing the position of the matter, it has to be said that no agreement whatsoever has been reached, and what is being done? Yeah, you do, for example. the fact that, as Minister for Business and Growth, the parties responsible in the Folketing are convened and informed that this is what has come out of the committee's work. June 6:00 p.m. 11.30 I held a meeting with the Danish Parliament's parties on the Travel Guarantee Fund, to which I had called, and where all the parties appeared and were present, minus the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and the SF, and where, as I do right now, I explained what the position was and what we did. What we then agreed was that we would put forward the proposal which I have now put forward in the Folketing, that is, when the parties could not agree, because it was, after all, better than not having anything at all. That was the starting point, and that was nodded at 6 June at 6 p.m. 11.30 to 12 noon met with me. I have then been able to see that a letter has been sent to me by the Travel Guarantee Fund stating that, despite previous disputes, they now believe that they are going to shelve the disputes, and that is excellent, and I have also agreed to meet them. But I have not said yes to stopping the legislative procedure, and that is because I would like to hear a little more about what they really have to say. And no one will be happier than I, if it is that they come up with something, a proposal where they say: we have certainly agreed; we have come up with a completely new and better model, and everything is now good. Well, it will generally raise the level of happiness around, because it's much, much better. But it is not the case that their sudden impulse here should cause us not to put forward anything that is equally beneficial to consumers, because the proposal we have put forward here is better for consumers than what is the current state of affairs. Then there have been many comments about how difficult it is to think things are going to be. I think it was sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, who listed up how incredibly many data you had to enter and everything else. It is, after all, a little by pleasure, how to set things up, because the website has not yet been invented, and I wonder if you can make it quite simple and easy. It can be done elsewhere, so it does not have to become so GDR, that is to say what has to be done to obtain bankruptcy cover. So I'm actually that confident enough for it to be possible. What you have done in all your simplicity is that you have said that instead of the individual company being required to find out, you make one common page compared to that where you make a link where you can then go over and get your coverage. It is the least difficult administratively that we have been able to come up with, and it has been precisely for the sake of the debate that has been going on about going to foreign companies and buying many of the products that are now being used. So it has not been a question of sloppyness, and it has not been a question of haste or anything else, but it has been what has been the best possible. These considerations, which are also of a technical nature, were also presented at the June meeting, so that is not entirely new to the parties of the Folketing, I have to say. So I would like to say that I would like to meet the people concerned again. I very much hope that they will be able to reach a position, a proposal that they can put forward in agreement and which can fulfil the purpose of why we are here today, namely to protect consumers in the best possible way, so I would very much like to give it a chance. However, I also hope that the Parliament will be able to support, in a broad majority, the fact that one has an interest in having legislation in this area where consumers can be further safeguarded, and here I would like to remind all the parties of Parliament of what has been said in the various contexts, in the situations where unhappy passengers, tourists, Danes around the world are stranded at all sorts of mysterious destinations and have not been able to return home. There are very, very few who, like Ole Birk Olesen, have been so brave to stand up and say that is the logic of the market, and they should have thought about that themselves. There are very, very few parliamentary politicians who have done so; most of them stand up and say that something must be done now, and the responsible government must do so. So that has been the starting point, and that is why the government has put forward a proposal that we are dealing with now, and I hope that the parties of the Folketing will have that aim when we go further in relation to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128105916	There are three who have asked for short comments to be made. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128105922	Thank you. It's nice that the minister wants to talk to the industry now. I think that is good and positive. The letter to which I refer is a letter from 3 November 2014 sent by the Travel Guarantee Fund, which is, of course, the one that has to administer all of this. There are representatives of SAS, HK Service Capital, Danish Cyclist Federation, Consumer Council Think, Danish Aviation, Danish Industry, Travel Organisers in Denmark and the Danish Travel Agency Association. And what you write is among other things.: The draft law in no way reflects the committee's work in the second half of 2013 and the first half of 2014, which is highly unsatisfactory. The model that the bill reflects has not been discussed in the committee, but was presented to the committee by government representatives at a time when committee work should have long since been completed, but for months no meetings had been held. That is why I think it might be a little nice to say that it is all due to the industry that could not reach agreement. Can the Minister confirm that this is the course of negotiations that has taken place in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110031	No, I cannot confirm exactly how the meetings took place in committee, because I did not attend those meetings. I have received a feedback that there was no agreement in the industry. I have been told that the positions were frozen: on the one hand, the airlines wanted there to be no system and, on the other hand, consumer organisations wanted it to be a compulsory system in which we had to build a large fund. And it was not possible to reach a compromise on it. The fact that my talented officials then put some compromise together, which is, after all, a step forward, should not be burdened with them. It shouldn't be like that. Then I just want to say to that thing that I've been wanting to talk to them all along. As I receive that request from the Travel Guarantee Fund, one of the first things I am asking for and which should be in relation to my recommendation that I hold a meeting with the industry. I have that in my calendar, and I have answered that promptly the moment I received the letter about it. So there is
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110126	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110127	So, there I have to refer to the letter sent by the Minister himself on 10 November 2014 he has at least signed it himself. It says: Thank you for your inquiry and interest in the issue. However, I believe that the stakeholders in the field of travel are far from each other in relation to this issue... Against this background, it is my view that it is still most appropriate to propose amendments to the law on a Travel Guarantee Fund as planned. It is not true that the Minister has said: let us sit down and talk about it. This is a cold cloth on the face, a rejection of an outstretched hand. It can't be interpreted differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110208	No, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, it is not the case that some organization should be allowed to dictate when I make legislative proposals in the Folketing and whether I do so or not. It's not like that. That is why I would like to say in response to your request that I should take a legislative proposal from the Danish Parliament, when I also have an agreement with Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen's party to put it forward that it is not something I do. I don't just do that like that. But I say yes to that and I do so to take a meeting with the industry and discuss with them, also constructively, whether a solution can be found. I do so in the same spirit as I say that we should not dictate when we have legislative programmes on and whether we should have them or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110242	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110244	I have to correct the Minister, who in his speech came to say that the Liberal Alliance does not believe that there is a need for any insurance policy here. There may well be a need for this, and there are already insurance schemes. There are, of course, in most areas where we people can be affected by accidents that we ourselves are not responsible for. Some of those accidents are much bigger than the fact that the airline with which we booked a trip goes bankrupt. It's a much bigger accident if you crash with a car that's $250,000. Worth it. Then people take out insurance for that car. It's also a much bigger accident if your house burns down. Then people take out insurance for it. They do that all by themselves. There is no legislation to do so. There is no legislation to allow them, for example. must take out a shell insurance on a car. We should also be able to believe that people can do this. The offer already exists. That's kind of just what we're saying. People have to take out the insurance they want to take out.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110350	I would now say that there are examples in the insurance legislation that insurance is compulsory, including, for example, liability insurance, when driving a car. So I think that a number of examples can be found that we, on the part of society, have made that demand. But here it is actually still gone voluntarily. It's totally voluntary. We are just opening up the possibility of being allowed simply and inexpensively to insure against bankruptcy. You can stop if you don't want to. But we just want to give the opportunity to some more than today, because it has been shown that a large number of people are not covered by it, as a result of the change in travel patterns and the way we act on the Internet. That is the reason for it. So, quite simply, we just want to offer a market to the good people so that they have the opportunity to choose for themselves. I'd say it should be a lot in the spirit of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110447	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110449	A liability insurance policy is different. A liability insurance for driving a car or having a dog is an insurance for use if you are going to do damage to others. It is true that we in the Danish Parliament have adopted legislation which says: if you are going to do a great deal of damage to others with your car or if your dog is causing damage, you have to have insurance so that we are sure that anyone who causes damage with their cars or if the dog is causing damage can make up for the damage. This is about people who can insure themselves against the accident that their airline goes downstairs and home. There is solidarity in the scheme so that the airlines that are run irresponsibly receive money from the airlines that are run responsibly. It is not voluntary for them whether they want to be part of it. And the airlines are telling the Minister that they would rather not be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110538	It is true that they say so, because they want it to be simpler for them, but it is more consumers that we are trying to take into account in this legislation. I have to admit that is the starting point, that is to say that we are going to do it for consumers. Then I would say that you can find other examples of this. For example, the Danish Parliament has recently decided that we should pay for a scheme against floods and storms. Every consumer and everyone who has an insurance policy will pay for this, despite the fact that we who live on the fourth floor will probably not be flooded right at the first. And so it is; you have been able to insure yourself in the past too, but that is where the Parliament has been, I think, even voted with Liberal Alliance votes to go in and cover it with solidarity. Perhaps it is also sometimes very sensible to have a goal of solidarity. It helps to make society stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110630	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110634	The Minister is quite right that the industry has very conflicting views. And it can be said that one of the areas where there is a great deal of disagreement within the industry is precisely whether a scheme should be voluntary or whether it should be compulsory. In my rapporteur's speech, I pointed out that we were initially in favour of making the scheme compulsory. And when you have such a disagreement an industry where they really stand in separate ditches, you have to choose sides. I do not understand why, if you want to choose the consumer's side, you do not opt for the compulsory system. It maintains a voluntary scheme and claims to improve it. I doubt whether it is an improvement, but it is still gone a voluntary scheme where you have to sit and click on some websites and find out and have the information up again. Why not choose side, make the scheme compulsory and force the airlines to have it completely advanced on their own website so that the bankruptcy cover can be ordered while booking your ticket? That would be real consumer protection, and that is also what the Consumer Council thinks about in their hearing response. So Minister: why not really choose the consumer's side?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110759	But I thought I had also covered the consumer's side nicely and well in relation to the proposal I have put forward here. Because that means that all airlines with more than 25 000 travellers a year are covered, and there you should have most of it, so the offer and the opportunity were there. What the Consumer Council thought, and some others suggested, is a system in which we have to pay a five-per-travel or something else so that we have to build up a fairly large guarantee fund. There has been concern about the economy and perhaps also little about some competitive parameters, which has meant that we do not think this is the best model that the Consumer Council has come up with. That's why we thought we'd found the right way with this model. But I am listening, and I am listening constructively to what Mr. Henning Hyllested says, and I am happy to continue to discuss with him how to get the best possible coverage for consumers. I promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110903	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110905	That sounds good. Of course, I accept that and I would very much like to discuss it. I was just trying to point out that if you're out there, where you're messing with anyway, yes, in this case, the whole business, you might as well go in and choose sides and say that we'll take some of them at least. I think that would be a good thing, and I could also expect the Socialists and the government to choose the consumer's side. You can do that with the Enhedslisten, and then we have a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110933	I thank you for the guidance on what to do, in the case you have messed up with the whole industry. I understand, sir. Henning Hyllested experience with. But my aim had now been to make it a little broad and neat and orderly. As I said, however, I am happy to listen to the advice of Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128110953	Thank you, Minister. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128111015	The debate is open. Sir. Kim Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128111040	Thank you. It's a poetry bill from the Minister of Industry, who is here for the first reading. Of course, it contains a great many important things, including technically detailed and complicated things. The main objective is to increase consumer protection in the context of financial advice and then to strengthen management skills in financial companies. Furthermore, the aim is to increase transparency, transparency and, above all, to implement a number of amendments to the Payment Services and Electronic Money Act. It is sensible to ensure that customers who receive financial advice and guidance receive better protection. We have learned a great deal from the financial crisis, and the fact that there must be openness and real responsibility is one of the lessons we have learned from the financial crisis. It is important that all parties, both customers and financial institutions, are fully aware of the agreements that are being concluded and, above all, of their consequences and obligations. We think this is sensible, and it is therefore also right that liability for treatment should be established in breach of the rules of good practice. This ensures customers buying financial products better against losses resulting from the deliberate negligence of financial undertakings. This also reduces the incentive for some to engage in such behaviour. Another element of the proposal is the clarification and extension of the provisions on the guarantee of business relations to apply to loans granted by mortgage credit institutions and to third parties' mortgages outside the profession. We are also positive about this. Then there is the additional element of requirements to clarify what directors of financial boards and management should be able to do. It's about their suitability and integrity, demands on the board's collective knowledge, competences and experience and such. It is an expiry of the CRD IV directive, and in this way it is a matter of obligation. It could be said that it is the general meeting of the financial institution in question that is responsible for who you choose and that you therefore have a responsibility to understand what the persons concerned represent before choosing them. However, we recognise that, with the complexity of the financial sector and the responsibility that that sector has towards society and individual individuals, there may be a need to ensure that there are some competences that are represented. However, I would now like to ask the Minister to make a note and to send it to the committee, so that, in the context of the business, growth and export committee dealing with this bill, we will have a note on whether the Danish implementation in this area is harder or weaker than that envisaged in the directive and whether it is implemented in any way other than that in other EU countries. I believe that we can agree in itself that it is important for us to ensure that there are as equal conditions as possible across national borders as possible. We also welcome the openness of the FSA. This also applies to supervised companies. All we have to do is keep the proportions in this. We have seen examples of the fact that the FSA has published facts on their website about smaller institutions which have violated rules which are, it is said, petty and deceptive, but which may have major consequences for the reputation of the institution in question in the local area. We have to say that we must ensure that there is reasonableness and proportionality in things. We can be a little concerned about changes in the law on payment services and electronic money. It may be sensible to reduce bureaucracy in this area, quite clearly, but we do not entirely agree that the amendments proposed in Section 3 (3) of the proposal. 2, is exclusively of a technical nature. There are some consultation parties who are concerned. It is a concern that we must have exorcised and that we must have clarified in the work of the committee, and we will allow ourselves to return to that. Then we must also say that the financial sector has been subject to a great deal of detailed regulation in recent years, and we are probably beginning to think that this industry needs calm in order to be able to take care of things and concentrate on its business, and that is why we will have enough to try to regulate a little less in the future once this has been done. In those words, I would like to express our sympathy to the proposal in committee and we will be constructive to clarify the points I have raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128111647	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Karin Gaardsted as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128111656	Thank you for the floor. With this bill, the government is carrying out a thorough review of the legislation for the financial sector. During the financial crisis, we saw the consequences of the non-regulation of the financial sector. Banks succumbed, and the judicial after-play is still in full swing. That is why it is important that we adapt the law so that the financial sector can hopefully act more responsibly in the future. The Social Democrats want to create a good framework for business so that growth and jobs can benefit Danish employees and Danish society. It is important to create the right framework for business. That is why I welcome this proposal. I do not want to go into all the details of the draft law, as it is quite comprehensive, but I would like to highlight the key elements of the draft law. We must ensure better protection for consumers who receive financial advice. We do, among other things. the principle that if the undertaking has acted contrary to the rules of good practice, it may be included in the assessment whether the undertaking can incur liability. I think that is very sensible. Of course, financial advisors must take responsibility if they do not advise customers responsibly. In recent years, we have seen boards of directors in the financial sector that were not their responsibility grown up and that did not have sufficient insight into what they were responsible for or in what, moreover, was their role. That is why the draft law ensures that new board members in banks and mortgage institutions must be trained much better for their important task and role, as it is of great importance to society and to the private economy of citizens. They must, because it is obvious that it requires some specific competences to sit on the board of financial companies. The boards must act responsibly, and now we ensure that all board members must learn the basic rules, for example. risk management, risk types, liquidity and solvency. With this approach, we can hopefully ensure that the boards of directors can give the board more professional counter-play and thus ensure accountability in the management of the financial institutions. Furthermore, we now give the board the obligation to establish a policy of diversity. We do this because it is important for a board of directors to have many different competences. We believe that there should be greater transparency about the FSA's assessments of companies under the supervision's responsibility. That is why the legislative proposal ensures that the obligation to publish is extended to more companies. The obligation to publish creates more openness for businesses, which will be of great benefit to, for example, the European Union. customers and also shareholders. It must be safe and secure to spend electronic money. That is why we want to improve consumer protection in this area. We do, among other things. by requiring greater security of outstanding electronic money. In this way, we reduce the risk of users losing money if a company goes bankrupt. In conclusion, this proposal creates more security for consumers when they receive financial advice. And then we take steps to ensure that the financial institutions act more responsibly towards the customers and act far more responsibly in carrying out the important social task they perform. The Social Democrats are committed to creating better and more effective business legislation, and this is something we will ensure by means of this bill. The Social Democrats can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112103	The draft law we are discussing here is, after all, a legislative proposal which is much more positive than the draft law we have dealt with in the past by the government. So, of course, the Minister should have that praise. After all, this draft law deals with a number of changes to financial legislation, which will then help to improve confidence and consumer safety overall in relation to the advice that will be given, for example, in guaranteeing parts of its values for other interests, and also in a large number of other cases, for example in connection with the basic course referred to here for board members in the financial sector. In the Danish People's Party we are also positive about that element, but we also think it is important to point out and now the Social Democrats' rapporteur mentioned how well it was, and so we agree that we do not believe that it is growing all the way into the sky, and that just because you take part in a so-called basic course for board members, you are fully inclined to be able to engage in a very professional management of a company. There is more to be done, among other things. a comprehensive experience and also industry knowledge of what you are on the board for. So a basic course is good, but it is not something that in itself moves the big thing. It does, however, in relation to the fact that we can see with this bill that we are getting clarification of the places where we can incur direct liability in relation to the fact that we have given wrong or unconcrete advice to people who have been involved in this. It is also the case that there is a change in relation to these inspection reports from the FSA concerning a number of companies • financial institutions or others within the FSA's area of responsibility. We also find this very positive in the Danish People's Party. In general, it is a law that contains many different small elements. Some are, of course, more informative than others, but we in the Danish People's Party believe that overall it helps to improve consumer safety, not least with regard to customers in financial companies. We can also support the proposal. However, I also think it is important, before I go down here from the platform, to point out that, in this way, we are in favour of the Capital Requirements Directive, in other words CRD IV, as the rapporteur of the Left said, as regards whether we are going further than other neighbouring countries, other EU countries under the same directive, the same regulation. It is about the note which the Left has expressed the wish to receive from the Minister and we think it is quite appropriate that we should have a note on that side of it. This will, of course, be reflected in the committee's work in connection with the draft law in the Enterprise Committee. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112401	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112407	Since several others have reviewed the content of the bill, I shall be brief. For the Radical Left, it is important to protect consumers when they are able to afford their economy. This bill strengthens consumer protection. It is also important for us that the managers of the financial companies are well dressed, and that is why we are demanding a basic course for board members in banks, mortgage institutions and insurance companies. With the proposal, we also create more openness about the work of the FSA, and we think that is the right way to go. Last but not least, the proposal helps to ensure consumers better in terms of payment services and electronic money, which we also think is good. So all in all, it is a good bill that the Radical Left supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112455	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karl H. Bornhøft as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112509	Thank you. I should like to start by stressing that I am speaking on behalf of our rapporteur, Steen Gade. Today's bill is basically a quite nice and reasonable offer of solutions in this area. We also need to recognise that, unfortunately, the need for the changes has been documented and that it is part of the conditions that we have in place. The changes that are being proposed here mean, among other things, that: changes in financial legislation as a follow-up to the recommendations of the replacement committee. And I should just like to say a few words about some of the recommendations. The recommendation against acts contrary to the rules of good practice on liability in line with current practice helps to eliminate the uncertainty. That's nice and good. Consumer protection in the field of guarantee has been increased to extend it to the mortgage of third parties and to loans granted by mortgage credit institutions. It's nice and fine. Basic training for board members in financial companies is introduced in order to strengthen the competence of the boards of directors. Unfortunately, the need has also been documented here. Greater transparency is introduced in the FSA's reports. It's nice and handsome. And then there is a proposal to reduce the risk of loss of payment services. It's quite fine and all right. As is clearly shown, our position on the proposal is very positive. We are happy to continue working on this and we would like the focus to be maintained on strengthening consumer protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112704	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112713	It is, of course, a proposal on which there is broad agreement here in the Folketing, and it is also a necessary proposal. I shall not delay it, but just say that Enhedslisten also supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, no, it was originally, but it's Mr. Olsen. Ole Birk Olesen, who the Liberal Alliances perform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128112736	The draft law before us consists of a number of different elements, which unfortunately have little to do with each other. Some elements may Liberal Alliance understand and support, while other elements are problematic. The draft law is primarily an expression of an increasing regulation of financial undertakings. It is important to remember that we in the Folketing very easily achieve a situation in which the regulation of financial companies becomes too extensive and opaque. Untransparent regulation can be worse than no regulation. When rules and legislation become too comprehensive, the incentive to get around and find gaps in legislation is increased. The result can be a worse situation than before you regulated. As regards the legislative part to strengthen consumer protection rules, we are generally positive. This applies both to the changes in liability and guarantee agreements. There also seems to be good arguments for working with greater transparency in relation to the companies supervised by the FSA. With regard to the stricter requirements for the management of financial companies, there may be reason for the fact that when taxpayers take on a particular risk on behalf of a particular industry, or when the members of the industry of politicians are placed under joint responsibility to finance each other's bankruptcies, so that they and taxpayers can, in the utmost, be liable for losses, the state can also make special demands that would not be acceptable in other industries. In this respect, however, the draft law seems to go too far when, for example, companies are required to design a policy of diversity. The Liberal Alliance is also sceptical about the proposed changes concerning payment services and electronic money. Here the use of real price regulation is extended by avoiding so-called unfair prices and margins. Price regulation is always a dangerous instrument to use, and therefore it is very problematic that the bill wants to increase its use. All in all, the draft law is a great deal of elements in very different and technical areas. We will look forward to following the examination of the legislative proposal, where we are sceptical of several elements, but can also see positive elements elsewhere in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128113006	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128113013	The proposal contains a very broad range of different initiatives, collections and updates of various sensible, I think, business policy measures. First of all, the title is, of course, that we will have better consumer protection with the proposal, and also that we will have a look at the whole debate on liability and that we will get something done about the boards of financial companies. So the main features, if you look at the eight or nine different elements in the proposal, are quite reasonable. Then there are some areas that we would like to look at more closely with regard to competition situations. Some transactions are regulated in relation to transfers and so on, and we have some questions for that too. In general, however, the Conservative People's Party is in favour of the proposal and expects to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128113114	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128113123	Thank you for receiving this proposal. Clearly, as has been mentioned by various rapporteurs, it is that we can strengthen consumer protection rules, that we can strengthen the requirements of the managers of the financial companies, that we have the FSA's inspection reports published, and that we also have some appropriate changes in payment services in and around electronic money, all of which reflect common sense. Of course, when you make such a comprehensive legislative proposal, there are also a large number of technical issues. We have also been asked how close to directives and other things we are implementing, and all these things we will of course respond to and work on in committee work in the best and most constructive way, and we look forward to having a sensible dialogue with the parliamentary parties about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128113228	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm making a small stay because we need a minister, unless the Minister for Business and Growth will take over the next proposal. I think I have to interrupt the sitting here. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 11.40.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128113947	The sitting is resumed. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Andersen for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128114025	Left rapporteur on this proposal, sir. Finn Thranum cannot be here this morning, so I have promised him to read the script. In Denmark we have representative democracy, and that is among other things. That is why we have room in this Chamber. This is also why many people across the country spend much of their time alongside their work on political work in municipalities and regions. We must support this opportunity, both at home and in the countries around us. In order for us to be able to live up to the idea of representative democracy, we must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to stand for election, but we must also ensure that everyone who is elected has the opportunity to perform the political role that goes with the election, regardless of whether it is at local, regional or national level. The political office can sometimes take place on top of one's other work. That is why we in Denmark have the right to be absent from our work because of the political office for which people are elected, in a municipal council or a regional council. That is also the case if you are elected in Sweden or in Germany, but you work in Denmark. This ensures part of this bill, which we are now dealing with first. We in the Left believe that all obstacles to political office must be broken down; everyone must have the same opportunity. It should not therefore be an obstacle to the exercise of political office to work in another country. To remove this obstacle is a step in the right direction in relation to the agreement reached by all parties of the Folketing in April 2013 to reduce the number of border barriers in the Nordic region. It is very gratifying that this is happening now. With all these reasons in mind, it therefore goes without saying that the Left is in favour of the proposal. The second part of the proposal is also about our representative democracy. The representative democracy depends to a large extent on trust in the elected representatives. That is why it is crucial that we ensure that there is as little risk as possible of questioning the legitimacy of democracy in municipal and regional councils. We must also ensure that there is not the slightest doubt about the position of responsibility in political governance in municipalities and regions. The current derogation system, which includes, inter alia: non-council and non-regional council members may be members of committees, may give rise to such questions and doubts. We want to avoid that risk and prevent anyone from questioning legitimacy and creating doubts and mistrust about political governance in municipalities and regions, so we are also in favour of the proposal to abolish the possibility of this exemption rule. It is important to add here that the abolition of the current derogation regime is not considered to prevent the involvement of interest representatives and experts in the political work at committee level. We must, of course, maintain that possibility. It is also important to add that the exemption option has only been in play in very few cases, if any. Therefore, the derogation system is not considered to outweigh the risk of doubting the legitimacy and accountability of democracy, and the Liberal Party is therefore in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128114405	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And we go straight to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128114415	Thank you. The bill we are now considering consists of two parts. The first part of the proposal ensures that cross-border commuters can be free from work to perform their political duties in municipalities and regions. The second part of the proposal is that no derogation should be granted to non-elected persons to be observers or members of political committees in municipalities or regions. The proposal also means that no derogation can be granted from the mayors and regional councillors who are respectively chairman of the municipalities' economic committees and the regions' executive committees. On the part of the Social Democrats, we give priority to Nordic co-operation. We do this because the Nordic countries are stronger in the international context when we stand together than when we stand separately, and because over 20%. of our exports go to the Nordic countries, making the Nordic region an important export area. Our ambition is that it should be possible to move, commute, work, study and operate across borders in the Nordic countries. When Denmark takes over the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2015, we will therefore put the removal of border barriers in the Nordic region at the top of the political agenda. Fortunately, in this area we have a broad political consensus in the Folketing. Back in April 2013, all parties in the Folketing, as you know, entered into a joint agreement to reduce the number of border barriers in the Nordic countries. The agreement contains a large number of initiatives, including: the proposal on the exercise of political office by border commuters, which we are now following up with this bill. The bill empowers the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to make agreements with other countries that local politicians in another country are entitled to absence from their work in Denmark to the same extent as Danish local and regional politicians do today. This means that a Swede who works in Denmark but lives and is politically elected in Sweden is treated as the Danish municipal politicians, so she is free from work in Denmark to carry out her political duties in Sweden. In practice, it is a matter of buying oneself free from work or changing one's hours. However, the prerequisite for the agreement is that this should be done under so-called reciprocity. This means that the countries with which Denmark enters into agreements must also have a similar set of rules for Danes working in that country. On the part of the Social Democrats, we think it is a good proposal that helps to remove border barriers in the Nordic region, so that it becomes easier to commute, work and study across borders in the Nordic countries and at the same time to do its political job. There are approx. 20 000 people commuting across the Sound every day, and they must be given equal opportunities to participate in democracy and to carry out political tasks, and we will ensure this by means of this bill. The second part of the bill is that it is now possible to grant derogations to non-elected politicians to be members or observers on standing committees and executive committees in municipalities and regions. We are removing this derogation so that only elected representatives can sit in the committees mentioned. This ensures a clear position of responsibility and responsibility in municipalities and regions. That is why the Socialists also support this proposal. With these comments, I can therefore say that the Socialists support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128114820	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128114830	After all, the draft law we are discussing here is a proposal in which both the Socialist and Liberal rapporteurs have explained what it actually contains so fairly clearly and precisely. I shall not start the same thing, because if all eight rapporteurs do so, it will be a relatively long procedure. Basically, however, the bill refers to an agreement that the government has entered into with all parties of the Folketing back in April 2013 on the removal of border barriers in the Nordic region. It is also clear, as others have said, of course, that this draft law actually ensures that a better understanding is created of the fact that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. working in Copenhagen and living in Malmö, it may be quite reasonable that you have the same working conditions as elected representatives, as if you lived in Copenhagen and worked in Copenhagen. So there are, of course, some differences, and they will then be eliminated by this bill, which specifies that you must have the same rights and obligations. The second element is, of course, about the abolition of derogations and so on, and there it seems strange, as the law is up to now, that a mayor can make a constitution, which then means that one should not be chairman of the Economic Affairs Committee itself, or a Regional Council President can make a constitution in which he should not be chairman of the Executive Committee himself in a region. The job is something that they get their mayor's salary to deal with, and then one can say that it was okay, if at the same time the mayor went down accordingly in salary, but I do not think that the mayors have been particularly interested in that. So they have received their mayor's salary according to the number of residents of the municipality, and then they have been able to pay one to take the chair on their own main committee. And that, of course, is not what is of interest to a people's government. It is, of course, that a mayor, who is the supreme and elected one and who has also been able to create a majority in a municipal council or a town council or a regional council, is, of course, the one who is in favour of the decisions that move on to the agendas of the committees and councils on which he sits. So this bill may not be the largest we have dealt with in the Danish Parliament, but it is certainly a bill which is both clear and precise and which is also sensible so that the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115048	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the radical rapporteur, sir. Helge Vagn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115057	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. With this bill, we are strengthening cooperation in the Nordic region by giving equal opportunities for elected representatives, for example. Sweden can actively participate in democracy in Sweden, although they work in Denmark and of course also vice versa. It is good for democracy and it is very good for Nordic co-operation. At the same time, the draft law will clearly place political responsibility on the standing committees of the elected representatives when only elected politicians can sit in these committees in future. Moreover, only the mayor and the President of the Regional Council will henceforth be able to chair the Economic Affairs Committee and the Executive Committee. That is very sensible. Political responsibility in municipalities and regions is then very clearly placed. That is why, of course, the Radical Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115148	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we go to the Socialist People's Party rapporteur, Mr. Karl H. Bornhøft.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115156	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. SF supports the bill because it makes it easier for more people to be active in local democracy where they live. And as we get more and more cross-border commuters in Danish society, we obviously run into more and more German and Swedish citizens in particular who want to engage in their local communities. And the basic thing is that we should not hinder that. On the contrary, it is important that we appreciate the desire of these citizens to be active, both because we in the Danish Parliament say on all solemn occasions that it is important that we vote and stand for local elections, but also because these foreign citizens can raise the particular problems that, for example, have to face up to. border commuters have, in relation to public transport, road traffic, schooling and care problems, etc. in their local city or regional government to the benefit and pleasure of themselves and also occasionally for Danish society. With regard to the weakened possibilities of dispensing with the requirements of the governing law for membership, I would like to say briefly that we do not have any specific comments, as long as officials can continue to be called as observers and experts to the committees and there are no restrictions on the composition of the so-called 17 paragraphs. Four committees. In short, with some enthusiasm, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115329	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, and then we go to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115339	Thank you. Yes, enthusiasm is a big word, but it's also good on a Friday. My sufflur is sitting here reminding me that it is a question of abolishing border barriers; that is what I had now included in the speech. I am not going to go into detail on the proposal, as previous rapporteurs have done very well, but I am particularly pleased that, when we talk about the first part of the draft law, it is perhaps in fact the first concrete example of the fact that it was a good agreement we made here in the Folketing with the government, about a determined work in relation to abolishing border barriers. We must be honest and say that it is only a small corner of the very big problem that we are now addressing, but it is always a good thing; it is a good start at least. So all right with that part of the bill. This also applies to the second part of the draft law, in which it is actually wrong in principle. It is strange how it has in its time been able to sneak into the legislation at all that there could be a derogation from a fundamental principle that it is of course the elected representatives of a municipal council and of a regional board that must then also manage the office, and that one cannot simply leave it to the unelected. So it's fine that we get rid of it. Then it is also very good in the current debate on the regions and their future to stress the importance of having elected representatives in those bodies and that they are the ones who run the store. And since it does not go beyond the possibility of openness on the part of a regional board or a municipal committee, that is fine. Perhaps there were many citizens who would like to see greater openness in the work, both in the committee work and in the board work in the regions and municipalities. But it is, of course, like another discussion: whether legislative changes are necessary to ensure this, and we can always return to it in a different context. So Enhedslisten would also like to contribute to the good mood by saying that we support the bill fully and with some enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115550	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115559	The Liberal Alliance can also support the bill. It contains two elements: one is one that guarantees commuters between Denmark and Sweden the same rights to perform their municipal and regional offices alongside their work that non-pendants have. On this part, however, I would just like to say that having legislation on it is more of a spell and a declaration of intent than anything that has a real effect in the real world, because there is no one who can enforce that a person who sits on a job interview, for example, and who spends a lot of time on municipal work, may not be employed in that job for the reason that he spends a lot of time on municipal work. It may also be that such a person is actually fired from his job because he spends a lot of time on municipal work. Then the employer can just say that it was for another reason, and not because he spent a lot of time on municipal work, that he was fired; there is no possibility of checking that. So in our optics it is more the expression of a declaration of intent and a symbolic law here than that it is something that actually has an effect out there in the real world. But then there is the second part of the bill, which is that non-council members and non-regional councillors should not be allowed to sit on the standing committees of municipalities and regions. We think that's a right way to do it. There must be a clear and clear position of responsibility in this and it is clear when we make sure that the people who sit in the committees are also people who are elected to sit in the municipal council or in the regional council. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115758	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, and then we go to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115804	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party supports this bill. We think it is a good idea for cross-border commuters to be able to obtain not only in Sweden but also in Norway and Germany the advantage and right that we then give them by removing the border barrier that the same conditions apply in Denmark and in the border country, namely that, if you are to do political work, the same rules apply in both countries. That must be fair. That's fair. It is to develop democracy, and we can only support that. In the Conservative People's Party, we also feel the same way with the second part of this draft law, which deals with exemption, that of course, and of course, it must be the mayor who sits at the top of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, just as in the region, the President of the Regional Council is sitting at the top of the Executive Committee. So we think it is a good thing that this derogation is removed, so that responsibility is placed where it should be. The other small things in the bill, we also support. So full support from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115902	I would like to thank both the Conservative and all the other rapporteurs. Then the Minister has the opportunity to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128115911	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs. After all, it is all the parties in the Folketing that are behind the agreement on the removal of border barriers. That is why, of course, it is also a good thing that all the parties are now contributing to this bill to start the concrete work. When you are the Minister of the Interior, you are also a kind of minister of our democracy, and both parts of this bill have the fundamental aim of promoting democracy, in other words, both to enable you to participate in democratically elected assemblies at local level across national borders and to ensure the security of democratic legitimacy and accountability. That is why I am pleased with the support. As I have said, the sole purpose of the bill is to ensure that employees are entitled to leave their jobs in Denmark as a result of the exercise of political office at local and regional level abroad. With the bill, the government wants to promote the possibility for border commuters to be represented in municipal and regional councils. It is a prerequisite for a representative democracy that those who meet the conditions for standing for election should have equal opportunities for political office. This proposal opens up further strengthening of Nordic co-operation, and, more specifically, as the President will be aware, there are discussions with Sweden to conclude a mutual agreement on the right of local politicians to leave work. The aim of the part of the bill abolishing the possibility of granting specific derogations from the law on the administration of municipalities and the Regional Law is to avoid the shortcomings in principle which these derogations may give rise to. By doing so, the government wants to ensure that democratic legitimacy and responsibility are taken into account both in municipalities and regions. Moreover, these are exemptions which have been found to be very low in use, and therefore it does not seem to be a major intervention either. I look forward to the committee reading and, of course, I am available to answer any questions which the committee might wish to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128120109	Thanks to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Municipal Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128120126	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128120155	Today we are discussing B 25, which is a draft parliamentary resolution on a Danish military contribution to the NATO mission taking place in Afghanistan from 2015 onwards. Let me start by saying here that we believe that the resolution tabled by the government is both a good resolution and a very articulate resolution in the way in which the Danish contributions are examined. The proposal that we are going to discuss is, of course, the continuation of a Danish effort that we have had for many years in Afghanistan, an effort which has both been necessary but which, unfortunately, has also sometimes been very difficult and which has also meant that there are some who have paid the ultimate, the highest price because we have lost Danish soldiers in Afghanistan. It has been a long and difficult path for Afghan society to reach where we are today and, as the motion for a resolution also shows, there will still be a risk of setbacks in parts of Afghan society. This is clear because the challenge facing Afghan society is, of course, that there are still groups and people who want to overthrow democracy. There are also major regional differences in Afghanistan, depending on where you are, and therefore it is of course crucial that we continue to make a contribution which will then now have more training and advice than we have seen in the past. Let me also say today that, of course, we also have some questions about the resolution, which we will also discuss with the government and address during the committee work. One of the things that the Left has been interested in during the whole part about the deployment of the helicopter contribution has been whether the deployment of the EH 101 helicopters is sensible in relation to the situation in which the helicopters are located. After all, we have been able to see that the helicopters have been operating for several months since they were deployed, but unfortunately we have also had to see that there is a helicopter that has been damaged and we are not yet aware of the extent of the accident. Of course, this raises some questions about what the future helicopter contribution should be, and not least about the consequences of the fact that there is a helicopter that is no longer operational in Afghanistan. It also raises the question, of course, of what economic consequences it will have for Danish defence in the future, but as such it has nothing to do with the resolution we are discussing here today. However, the Left will go into the work that lies ahead of us, namely the work of the committee, with the clear support that we continue to have a contribution in Afghanistan, and we also note that the implementation of the resolution we are discussing here today is clearly in line with the Afghanistan strategy supported by a broad majority in the Folketing, namely all parties except the Unity List. It is, of course, also very important, in the view of the Left, that we aim to have as broad a majority behind our military contributions as possible and also behind the efforts we make when we send out soldiers. So, with these comments, we will acknowledge that the resolution is both good and, above all, detailed. We would like to sign for this to the two ministers of the government here today in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128120553	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128120609	September 11, 2001, was a landmark day for most people. The World Trade Center and the US Department of Defense Pentagon became targets for cynical terrorist attacks. The world changed that day, and 13 years later, events are still shiningly clear to most of us. Directly following the terrorist acts of 11 September, the ISAF International Military Security Force under NATO command in Afghanistan was established in December 2001 and at the invitation of the Afghan Government. The mission of the ISAF was to assist the Afghan Transitional Government in maintaining security in Kabul and other areas of Afghanistan. Denmark, as the NATO alliance from the outset, has actively contributed to international action in Afghanistan with extensive political, military, development, humanitarian and police support. The Danish military contribution has focused on the capacity building of Afghan institutions and security forces in and around Kabul, as well as the deployment of support contributions. For us in the Socialists, it is important that the efforts in Afghanistan are about ensuring that Afghans themselves can take care of the security of their own country. I myself have had the opportunity to visit soldiers out in the world, out there, where our soldiers actually make a really big difference. I have also been to Afghanistan with the Defence Committee. Here I saw for myself that the Danish soldiers are doing a professional and dedicated job, be it in the mentor role, in staff functions, in logistical or in other support. The role of Denmark and the defence in Afghanistan has changed over the years, and it is now of a very different nature than in the past. The Afghan army has become much more independent and dares to take greater responsibility. The Afghans have gained a strength and a belief that they can actually do it themselves. It is precisely one of the aims of Danish action in Afghanistan, namely to prevent the country from becoming once again a haven for terrorists, but also to contribute to the growth of a stable and more developed Afghanistan, which can take care of its own security and continue democratic development and promote respect for human rights. By the end of 2014, the international security force ISAF's efforts in Afghanistan will be completed, and then full responsibility for the country's security, political, economic and social development lies with the Afghans themselves. Safety as a whole has improved, but the security situation remains fragile and there will be a greater risk of setbacks. Afghanistan will therefore continue to need the international community to assist with significant support. In view of the continuing need and after the invitation of the Afghan Government, NATO will launch the Resolute Support Mission on 1 January 2015 as a replacement for the current ISAF. We support this in the Socialists. The focus of the mission is training, advice and support for the Afghan national security forces and not a combat mission. Training, advice and support will be targeted at ministries, higher education institutions, specialised military capabilities and strategic staffs. Efforts will be adapted to needs and in the light of developments in tasks. As the tasks are completed, the Danish military contribution will be reduced or re-priorityd according to the needs of the task areas. NATO and Afghanistan have unanimously stressed the importance of NATO's continued support for Afghanistan's security. Over 40 NATO and partner countries participate and are expected to have a total strength of around 12,000 people, of which approx. 160 people are from Denmark. For the Social Democrats, it is important that Denmark remains a significant contributor to creating security and development in Afghanistan. It is still important to help create a stable Afghanistan and a more developed Afghanistan, bearing in mind that Afghanistan will not be the home of terrorists again. In those words, we in the Socialist Group would like to support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121014	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121026	The Danish People's Party has supported Denmark's participation in the war in Afghanistan all the way. Now it's over, and now the Afghans need to concentrate on building up their own defenses so that they can take care of their own security. To build their own defenses, they need our expertise in a wide range of areas. These are advisers at the officer's school in Kabul, at their defence academy and at their special schools. In addition, Denmark has been asked to provide instructors to build air transport capacity and to contribute with health personnel and military police. It is quite natural that Denmark contributes in this context, and therefore the Danish People's Party supports B 25 wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121110	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So is it the radical rapporteur? No, it's not. Then it is the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen; then perhaps the radical rapporteur will come later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121136	We support this proposal, even if I have to say that I do not particularly agree with many of the observations made by previous rapporteurs. I don't think I'm covering reality. We came in with a lot of ambition that we should support a democratic government with Karzai in Kabul. Karzai proved to be deeply corrupt. We got into a lot of contradictions with regard to criminal organisations, with regard to the Taliban, no one knew who really was the Taliban, no one really knew who the enemy was, and instead of standing up like the great liberators, we were seen as possessors of the general population, and therefore it is not surprising that Afghanistan's efforts must all be described as a failure. But when that is the case, we must also get out again in a proper way. We are pleased that we have pulled out and that NATO has acknowledged that it will not be admitted openly, nor will it be admitted here in Parliament that it has not been a success. That is why we have decided that we must get out of here again, and we must do this in a proper way. This then means that we have a responsibility to train the security forces and to help the Afghan security forces themselves to take responsibility for their own security. It requires far more than military training, it requires political reforms and so on, but the fact that we have an opportunity to ensure the safety of the general population ourselves is an important task, and it is therefore right that we should have this in the Afghanistan plan that we are behind, and therefore, of course, we are behind it here too, because it is the only reasonable thing, that is to say, that we support getting out in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121359	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121407	I do not believe that, after 13 years of failed war in Afghanistan, the Folketing should continue Denmark's participation in the war, and therefore Enhedslisten also votes against the motion No. B-25 to send Danish soldiers to NATO's efforts. Thousands of civilians, ordinary people, have been killed in Afghanistan. The Afghans have not got a democracy, the Afghans have not got a safe society, and everything, too many Danish soldiers have lost their lives or have been hurt on the body and soul of the war. As politicians, we should learn from the mistakes made in Afghanistan. We should learn from the mistakes rather than continue the military effort. In many ways, the latest elections in Afghanistan were a disaster. It has shown that there is still a long way to go for democracy. Democracy cannot be achieved by coming from outside and waging war. Democracy in a country is based on what the people themselves want, not on what Denmark, the United States or others want. If you asked ordinary Afghans what they want, I'm sure they will answer peace and stability and the opportunity to live a life without fear of violence and poverty. We need to consider how best we in Denmark can contribute to this, and I think it is by stopping the military presence. In the Enhedslisten we voted against Denmark going to war in Afghanistan, but the majority of Parliament's parties voted for the war. I do not think it is too much to demand that politicians who send a country to war should also have a plan that they should also take responsibility, but I do not believe that this has been the case in relation to the war in Afghanistan. There has not been a well-thought-out plan for what Denmark was doing in Helmand. Recently, many reports have come out about the problems of the war in Afghanistan. In Denmark it is among other things. Captain Mads Silberg, who has told how the Danish effort has been used in local power struggles, and how a clear analysis of what the Danish soldiers could and had to do in Afghanistan has been lacking from the outset. I still do not see what is meant by continuing NATO's military presence and efforts. It is a recurring analysis that the presence of NATO forces in Afghanistan strengthens Taliban position and support. It is high time to invest in political solutions and negotiate a peace with the Taliban in Afghanistan. It doesn't help to keep sending Danish soldiers. Instead of continuing military action in Afghanistan, I think it is time to clear up and take political responsibility for the mistakes that have been made. This means that we must have an investigation into the Afghanistan war and that Denmark must put a new foreign policy line in which we do not go along with the wars of aggression in the future. And if Denmark goes to war, there must be a completely different political responsibility. Unfortunately, in Afghanistan, there have been plenty of cases of torture, violence and civilian killings that have not been dealt with properly. Denmark has consistently tried to evade responsibility for the prisoners that have been taken. Afghan interpreters, who have risked their lives for the Danish defence, have not received asylum in Denmark and have not received the helping hand they had been promised, and the Danish soldiers who have come back with wounds on their souls have not always received the help they have needed. There are plenty of things that Danish politicians should spend time discussing should spend time solving in relation to the war in Afghanistan. But we should not send Danish soldiers again. So in the Enhedslisten we are voting against extending the presence of Danish soldiers in Afghanistan, and we call on the other parties to stand by the fact that the problems in Afghanistan cannot be solved by war. The way forward is political solutions, and the consequence should be that the Danish soldiers are dragged home.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121851	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128121908	Thank you. It is always a serious decision to send Danish soldiers to international missions. It is this time too. This is at the invitation of the Afghan Government and at the request of NATO. Two essential prerequisites are thus met. If it is then perhaps an easier decision than it is so often, then it is because the objective here is quite clear. We must support the improved security situation in Afghanistan. We are sending skilled Danish soldiers to train the security forces, the military personnel who are in Afghanistan, that is to say the country's own forces. We have to train and teach them, make them better. We must help to build the security systems that they must have as a prerequisite for the development of that society and for democracy, security and peace to come in the long term. That's what this contribution in its substance contains. Therefore, there is reason today to welcome the fact that Denmark is being asked to contribute to the improvement that can bring about in the long term another civil society in Afghanistan. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance fully supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122058	Thank you, sir. President. The issue here is, of course, the Danish military contribution to NATO's mission in Afghanistan. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal. We think it is absolutely right that we do what we can to enable the Afghan Government to take responsibility and deal with the situation in Afghanistan. In this context, we also think it is reasonable that we should contribute to further training and training of the Afghan military so that they are able to deal with the challenges they are facing. With these comments, I would like to say once again that the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122134	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now a radical rapporteur has been added and will be allowed to conclude the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122144	Well, then I can try what it's like to be the smallest party. You never know what fate awaits you one day. But it's nice to have the last word. Yes, yes, then the Danish People's Party sits and laughs, and that is quite appropriate right today with it can happen to anyone. With the motion for a resolution, we agree to send a Danish contribution to the NATO Support Mission in Afghanistan. The purpose of the Support Mission is to support the development of Afghan security forces. This in itself is not a new type of task for Denmark, for it is a direct continuation of the task that we have solved over the last few years, which has just been about arming the Afghans to carry out their own security. But it is still a new type of task because we are taking a step further back. Where we have previously done what one might perhaps call side-man training in the field, i.e. been with the Afghans out where the fighting is fought, now it is more important to train, train and advise at educational institutions in the ministries. So we are still getting away to make a significant and weighty contribution, but it gets another, more withdrawn character. This seems to us to be a very good extension of our efforts, and it is a very logical move towards the Afghans taking full responsibility for the security of the country. In those words, the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122309	Thank you to all the rapporteurs. Then the ministers have the opportunity to conclude. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122320	Thank you very much. I strongly hope that the radical rapporteur will not return to this situation in the foreseeable future, I have to say at the outset. In addition, however, I would like to thank all the parties that have indicated that they will support our resolution and perhaps make a few comments on the situation in Afghanistan. It is after 14 years of massive international presence in Afghanistan that the Afghans from 2015 can and will take full responsibility for the country's security and political, social and economic development, and this means that it is quite a different effort from Afghanistan, and that cooperation between Denmark and Afghanistan also enters a new phase in which our role will be fundamentally different from that of the past, with a significantly smaller military contribution and a significantly larger civil contribution. One might well say a little popularly that we have now come a long way in winning the war in the sense that the Afghans themselves can take over the security and politics of their own country, but that it is now a question of winning peace. During my visit to Afghanistan earlier this month, I met, among others. with President Ghani and so-called Prime Minister Abdullah, and more representatives of civil society. I would like to say, without having to develop into a very big discussion about our entire Afghanistan effort... we have had it sometimes... that I may think it is too simple not to call our Afghanistan efforts a success or to call it a definite failure, as both Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen very clearly does. I also talked to representatives of civil society about, for example. The fact that our efforts from 2001 and 2003 onwards have actually enabled 8 million Afghan children to attend school. Out of them is 30-40 percent. Girls who wouldn't have been able to go to school at all. One of the things I found most encouraging during my visit was civil society's description of the new generation of Afghans. We have actually been there for 14 years, so there are Afghans who have been born and went to school and had their entire schooling after the Taliban fell. For them, the last 14 years have not been indifferent. Nor do I think it is for the future of Afghanistan that there is now a generation of young people who have been trained and where the girls have had the opportunity to join. Even when we look at the posts to be filled both in Parliament, in the government and in the administration, we can see that women have joined. It's just to give an example that I don't just think you can call it a failure. Then I would very much like to admit that not everything that has happened in Afghanistan has been a success. But I think that we need to have that balance in it and also the nuance that it is not the case that it has either been a failure or a success. Something has gone well, and something has also gone less well. That is also why I am pleased that all the parties that have been behind our efforts in Afghanistan have agreed to draw up an experience collection to learn exactly what we have been successful with and what has not gone so well and which we can hopefully learn from in future efforts. There is no doubt, no matter how you look at the past, that when we look forward, there are major challenges, political, economic, social and security. I would like to take this opportunity to convey a great deal of thanks and appreciation to both President Ghani and Prime Minister Abdullah, who expressed a very great deal of gratitude to the Danish people and the Danish Parliament for our continued commitment, our continued willingness to provide support to Afghan society. They are very aware of the great task they face and, as far as I can judge, they are very, very interested in and determined to be able to deliver the political leadership that Afghanistan has so much lacked. Unfortunately, the security situation in Afghanistan remains fragile, and there is also a risk of setbacks, which is why we consider it important from the government's point of view that, in the first critical years after the ISAF mission, we continue to support the Afghans' own efforts to win peace with training, advice and support, as several rapporteurs have mentioned. This will be done through participation in the Resolute Support Mission and a significant development effort. Finally, for the sake of good order, I would like to refer to the status of force agreement which was to be concluded between Afghanistan and NATO and which constitutes the basis of international law for the Resolute Support Mission and for the Danish military contribution. The new Afghan Government signed the agreement a few days after its accession and a large majority in the Afghan Lower House approved the agreement on 23 November. I can then tell you that yesterday it was also approved in the House of Lords, and that is why only the mere formalities with the signature of the President and the publication in the Official Gazette of the Afghan Parliament, known as Gazette, are now being completed. It is therefore my very clear expectation that the process will be completed before the Resolute Support Mission starts on January 1. Finally, let me stress that we in the government hope that there will continue to be broad political support for the Danish military contribution, for NATO's efforts in Afghanistan, but indeed also for the other and now heavier efforts. This is important for the Danes we send out, and I therefore look forward to the favourable treatment of the motion for a resolution by the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122918	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128122921	Thank you. I have to say that I very much agree with the Foreign Minister that things have gone less well in Afghanistan, as the Minister has just said. Now we are discussing a proposal to continue the military presence in Afghanistan. In Norway, it has been decided to set up an independent commission of inquiry to look at the efforts made by Norway in the Afghanistan war. In Denmark, it has also been decided to evaluate the efforts, but the Minister and the other parties, bypassing the Enhedslisten, have decided that it should be the Defence and Defence College of the Ministry of Defence that looks at the military part of the effort. In a situation where we can see that something has gone less well, should we not set independent eyes, independent eyes to look at it and perhaps find faults that can be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123021	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123023	It is important to learn from your experiences, both the good and the bad. As far as some of the places where we are concerned about things that should not have happened are concerned, we have set up a proper Commission to look at that part of our Afghanistan efforts, the so-called Iraq Commission, which also deals with elements of our Afghanistan efforts. Then we have started another lead, which is about looking at what has gone well and badly in the interplay between having a military effort and at the same time a civilian effort. As Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned, it can be difficult with one hand to have a strong military effort and with the other hand try to build trust and bridge the civilian population. What experience do we have with this? Where did it go well? What did we do to make things go well? What experience do we have with where things have gone badly? What did we do there? There we have made a • you can say mix of external contributions and internal contributions. We have set DIIS to gain international experience in this field of mixing civilian and military interventions. We will put external consultants from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to evaluate our development efforts in the light of the overall effort, and finally, with the help of the Royal Danish Defence College, the defense will analyse the military efforts in the same light. When we have put the emphasis on both involving independent fresh eyes on this and at the same time involving the employees and the administration who are doing the work, it is of course because we sincerely want to learn from our experiences. There should be no political judgment. It's a good one, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen and myself, if I may say so. What is important here is that our administrations learn from the processes, because I really believe that all those who have been involved in Afghanistan's efforts on the political side have had only one wish, and that was to contribute to peace and reconstruction of the country as soon as possible. That is why I also believe that we are getting more out of involving all the forces and knowledge in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, while inviting people from the outside to look at it with fresh eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123231	Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123233	Thank you. I very much agree that learning is very important, but how do you learn best? I was with the Defence Committee in Afghanistan to visit the Danish soldiers just over a year ago, I think it was, and there it came, among other things. In addition, some of the places in Helmand, where most Danish soldiers have died, are areas that have now been decided not to try to defend any longer, where they have been accepted that the Taliban control them. Therefore, it is well worth discussing whether it was sensible in the past to send Danish soldiers to the death to defend the areas that have now been decided to give up and which are accepted that the Taliban controls. It is a difficult evaluation to make, but my point is just: is it smartest to put the very people who made the decisions to consider whether it was good, or could we not give fresh eyes to look at what has been chosen to do in Norway?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123328	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123329	I actually think that the very concrete example, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen pulls out here, very well illustrates that this kind of evaluation is not a very rigorous professional evaluation. It is always easy to look back and see that we should not have taken the battles that we lost, that we should have only taken the ones we won. The reality is not that simple, and it is not to neglect the fact that wrong decisions have been taken. We are all doing so; it is also happening in a war, but to say that I think we can make a good distinction between those issues which need a thorough political discussion at a more fundamental level, including whether it makes sense to use military contributions, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also sets out in his rapporteur's speech, and then those who are about what we can say when we are down there and work can say about the efforts we are trying to develop the country civil, economic and democratic on the one hand, while at the same time we have a great deal of military effort going on. This is a big discussion. I think that any angle to this, including in the Parliamentary Chamber, is appropriate. It is the largest military operation that Denmark has carried out since the Second World War. I think it may even be bigger than the one we did there, but it is at least the biggest war effort we have been in and I think we need to learn from the experience. However, I do believe that it makes sense to include all the knowledge and resources in the ministries that have been involved, while at the same time getting independent people from outside, who can look at it freshly. With this combination, I believe that we will have the best basis for evaluating our efforts and also for passing on the experience we have gained. I therefore believe that we will make the most constructive contribution, and that must be what this is about in terms of ensuring that we never send out Danish men and women without being sure that it makes a difference in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123525	Thank you to the Secretary of State. And then I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123534	Following on from the remarks made by the Foreign Minister, I would also like to make a few comments on the proposal for a Danish military contribution to the Resolute Support Mission. It is important to make it clear that the Danish effort now goes from having previously been a combat mission to now becoming a training and counselling mission. The guiding principles will be that we should help train and train Afghan forces so that they are able to ensure the security of the country, and it is also an emphasis that Denmark is now contributing a wide range of efforts to Afghanistan, but that defence will continue to carry out its part of the task. At the entrance to 2015 we will have approx. 160 persons, broken down by advisory functions and other functions in the Kabul area, as well as a transport helicopter contribution in northern Afghanistan. It is good people we send out, and it is good that there is such broad support in the Danish Parliament for their efforts. Today is also an opportunity to thank all the Danish soldiers and other soldiers who have made a great effort in Afghanistan over all the years. This applies to those who have come home strengthened, but it also applies to those who have come home with wounds on their body and souls, and of course to those who sacrificed their lives in Afghanistan, so that that country can develop in a positive direction and so that the rest of us can live in peace and security. So to all of them and all of their families and relatives I would like to say a big and warm thank you today. They have made a difference, and Denmark will also do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123744	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123805	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128123852	Thank you. The debate we are going to have today is a really, very important debate. For while many people in Denmark are sitting in front of the television screens and watching the pictures of IS beheading people and ethnic cleansing, massacres and slaughtering innocent civilians in northern Iraq and Syria, Turkish television shows Turkish soldiers who are talking with warriors from the IS on the Turkish side of the border, after which the criteria of IS move freely back across the border and attack the Kurdish city of Kobani. While we have a UN that has decided that all countries must oppose foreign warriors and prevent them from coming in and fighting for the extremists in IS in Syria or Northern Iraq or Iraq, we have a situation in which it is assumed that Denmark's close NATO allies Turkey has given IS 150-200 foreign warriors in a prison exchange. Perhaps there has even been a Dane, the assassinate suspect from the Lars Hedegaard case, among the prisoners exchanged. At least the man's gone missing. While the border with the Kurdish city in northern Syria Kobani is airtightly closed to food, medicine and reinforcements in violation of UN clear requirements, the border between Turkey and Syria is open to IS warriors. Right now we have a situation in which, of course, we in Denmark expect a close ally to comply with international agreements, comply with the agreements we have concluded, following the UN recommendations to combat foreign warriors. At the same time, we have a situation in which we cannot get clear answers from the Turkish Government. In other words, the Turkish Government is making a fool of Denmark right now. This is an important debate we have in the Parliamentary Chamber today. It is about a close ally that is failing Denmark if the government fails Denmark, whose government fails the fight against the IS and therefore we should discuss how we in the Folketing will respond to it. I hope we can have a good debate on this very, very serious situation and that together we can come to the conclusion that we should increase the pressure on the Turkish Government. We should increase the pressure on a government that is currently making a fool of Denmark and is currently failing to fight the extremists in the IS.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128124146	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128124158	Let me begin by stressing the great threat and challenge posed by the terrorist group ISIL. The international community has reacted decisively and effectively to this threat with a broad and comprehensive effort, an effort that is escaping with the Danish approach, ranging from a strengthened Danish contribution towards violent extremism over diplomatic and economic instruments to a military contribution to the international coalition. With an active diplomatic effort, Denmark has supported the establishment of the broad international coalition from the outset. We have provided substantial humanitarian aid to the victims of ISIL's brutality. We are working to create development and stability in all the countries that are currently contributing with extremists. Finally, we contribute militarily to the repression of ISIL, where the United States has the leading role. In the following I would like to report on the state of play of the international action against ISIL, including in relation to the important role played by Turkey. In Iraq, as you know, ISIL took advantage of the intransigence of the previous government and the lack of involvement of Sunniara and Kurds in the political process to strengthen its position among the Sunniara. The new Iraqi Government has declared that all its population groups will be fully involved, and we have already seen concrete positive signs of this. In my view, it is incredibly important that the international community adheres to the demands of the Iraqi Government for it to continue its inclusive course and for it to carry out absolutely necessary social reforms. A united Iraq is an essential condition for the success of Iraq and international action against ISIL. When it comes to military action against ISIL in Iraq, despite difficult circumstances, there are bright points and the basis for cautious optimism. The coalition's air strike has slowed the progress of ISIL and limited the group's freedom of operation. The air strikes have created space for Iraqi and Kurdish forces' operations, which are now experiencing fragile progress. On the Danish side, we make a significant contribution to supporting Iraq in the fight against ISIL, militarily on the basis of B 123, which a large majority across the Folketing agreed. Our fighter aircraft actively contribute to the fight against ISIL and support the efforts of the Iraqi security forces on the ground. In addition to fighter aircraft and state contributions, the Folketing also decided to provide a capacity-building contribution for the advice, training and training of Iraqi and Kurdish security forces. On Saturday of last week, the defense sent out the first minor training contribution to Cyprus to prepare the training efforts in northern Iraq, and the first Danish soldiers arrived yesterday in northern Iraq, where they are making preparations before the rest of the unit arrives. The contribution will be part of the UK's training of Kurdish security forces until February 2015. In Syria, the United States, together with a number of Arab countries, is conducting air strikes against ISIL and has also supported the Kurdish rebels with weapons. The attacks have most recently prevented ISIL from taking over the Kurdish city of Kobani. In general, it has to be said that the situation in Syria remains very critical and that the militant extremist groups are unfortunately still gaining ground at the expense of the moderate opposition as well as the Kurdish groups. ISIL poses a threat, both to Iraq and Syria, to the countries of the region and to the international community. The group has substantial resources from modern weapons, large-scale money resources from looting, hostage takings, tax collections, oil sales to a very well-oiled propaganda machine. It is therefore important that we continue to counter ISIL in a wide range of areas, not only military but also by weakening the group's funding, its recruitment base and its propaganda. The Government's action plan against violent extremism, recently launched, is a significant contribution to this. We will also continue to contribute internationally to the fight against foreign fighters in close cooperation with our partners and allies. An important element of international action remains the need for it to include a wide range of countries actively participating. The coalition has grown significantly in recent weeks and months and now numbers over 60 members, who contribute in various ways to the effort. It is particularly important that the countries of the region support and participate in the efforts. This is clearly in their own interests, since the ravages of ISIL threaten them and their fellow believers first and foremost. In addition, it is important that international action is not seen as a struggle between the West and Islam. The brutality of ISIL is opposed to all Sunni Muslims, and one is tempted to say especially Sunni Muslims in terms of the number of people killed who do not submit to ISIL. Turkey has a special role to play in international action. In recent years, the country has strengthened its efforts to combat the influx of foreign fighters to Syria and Iraq and is home to the moderate Syrian opposition and the Syrian Interim Government, which is also fighting ISIL. At the same time, Turkey has given Kurdish peshmega forces access to Kobani and has opened the way for training the moderate opposition forces in Syria to take place in Turkey. These are positive measures that constructively contribute to international action against the terrorist group. It must also be borne in mind that, in view of its long border with both Syria and Iraq, Turkey is particularly exposed to ISIL, which among other things. As a result, according to the UNHCR, Turkey has received a total of 1.1 million refugees from Syria. At the same time, however, it is no secret that ISIL has managed to exploit access via Turkey to recruit foreign fighters from a wide range of countries. There have also been reports of oil smuggling from ISIL-controlled areas through inter alia: Turkey, and it is important that Turkey actively responds to these serious challenges. We in Denmark have pressed for Turkey to play an active and constructive role in the fight against ISIL and will continue to do so both bilaterally and via the EU. As regards the specific case of the Danish citizen who is suspected of the attempted assassination of Lars Hedegaard, I have of course noted the hypothesis, which appears to be based in particular on media stories, that the Turkish authorities should have handed him over to ISIL as part of a prisoner exchange. I must stress here that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has still not received any official information on this, either from Turkey or from other sources. I cannot therefore, as Foreign Minister, engage in speculation and, above all, not in such a serious matter. However, whatever has led to the release of the person concerned, I would nevertheless like to state that it is highly unacceptable that the Danish authorities have not been informed of the release and the circumstances surrounding it. As I have said before, the government considers this to be a very serious matter and we will maintain the pressure on the Turkish authorities to clarify what has happened and why the person has been released. There should be no doubt about that. There has sometimes been the view that Denmark has not been willing to put pressure on Turkey in the matter, and that was also a bit of the tone I heard in Mr Tugendhat's speech. Nikolaj Villumsen's speech. I would like to make that clear once and for all. At the meeting of the Foreign Policy Group on 23 October and discussed in the Board again on 25 November, there was support for a three-track approach which focuses firstly on keeping bilateral contacts with Turkey on an ongoing basis with a view to pressing for information on the matter, secondly, on doing the same through the European Union and, thirdly, in the Council of Europe. In both Ankara and Copenhagen, including most recently at the invitation of the Turkish Ambassador, the government has continued to press for information on the timing and basis of the release. The matter has also been raised in the European Union in the context of meetings of the Enlargement Working Group both in Brussels and in capital format on 28 and 29 October, and I myself informed both the newly joined Enlargement Commissioner Johannes Hahn and the new High Representative, Federica Morgherini, last week. She will follow up her bilateral contacts with Turkey. As regards the Council of Europe, as the first step, the Ministry of Justice raised the matter in the so-called PC-OC Committee on 18 November, when we in Denmark asked for answers to our entirely legitimate questions in the matter. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is expected that a new meeting of the Council of Europe's Anti-Crime Steering Committee, CDPC, will be followed up at the beginning of next month. In other words, the government has put considerable pressure on Turkey in this matter, and it has undoubtedly put Danish-Turkish relations under severe pressure. But we still have to remember that this is not the only case or the only cooperation we have with Turkey. There are many interests at stake and we must, of course, ensure that the steps we take have the desired effect. As I have said, Parliament has been informed of the steps that the government believes are the right ones to take in the matter, and those steps have been supported and I would like to thank you for that, but the crucial thing is still to get a full explanation from Turkey, and it is pushing the government to get it. In conclusion, it is also important to say that Denmark also has good overall cooperation with Turkey, including in the field of police and criminal law. in the fight against foreign fighters, and also in multilateral contexts, Turkey plays a positive role in relation to global action against violent extremism. Turkey is an important partner and it is in Denmark's interest to cooperate with it. Finally, I would like to remind you that the aim is to get hold of the alleged perpetrator for extradition to Denmark; here too it makes sense to keep the channels of dialogue and cooperation with Turkey open. The fight against ISIL is one of the most important global challenges we face today. There is no doubt that the effort will be both comprehensive and long-lasting. It is therefore essential that, in close cooperation with the other coalition countries, including our partners in the region, we address this threat together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128125337	Thank you to the Secretary of State. And then the rapporteur for the proposers has the opportunity to comment on the Foreign Minister's response from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128125408	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Now we are in the situation that, when we have this debate today, there are some things that we all agree on here in the Folketing. We all agreed that IS must be stopped. We all agree that we want to stop the foreign warriors who come from Denmark and other countries to Syria to Iraq and join the extremists from the IS. The situation is just that we have a problem with how to get our close allies in Turkey to work in the same direction. A week ago, I was inside the Kurdish territories of Syria. Here I am speaking with the leader and commander of the Kurdish self-defence forces Redur Khalil. He told me that they had huge problems with foreign warriors who came in and attacked them attacking their self-defense forces who tried to defend Christian, Arabic, Kurdish villages against the extremists of the IS. Funny enough, all the dead IS fighters they found had their passports stamped in Turkey. They had simply got the stamp checked before they were allowed to cross from the Turkish border into Syria. Two dog signs had even been found from the Turkish military on two IS warriors who had been killed 80 km inside Syria. When you are finished in the military in Turkey, the normal practice is that you hand in your dog tag and therefore do not have it afterwards. Whether this has been the case for these two is hard to say. The reality is that time and again there are examples of IS freely crossing the Turkish border, while we can see that a Kurdish city like Kobani is besieged. But not only Kobani is besieged, all the Kurdish territories are besieged. We visited a refugee camp, the Newroz refugee camp, where there are Yazidi refugees from Northern Iraq. They fear for the winter, not just because there is a lack of funds for humanitarian aid, but because Turkey simply keeps the border closed so that emergency aid cannot cross the border and enter these areas. The situation is, of course, that it is true that the Turkish Government was pressured to open the border to Kobani and deploy 150 peshmega forces. Then they closed the border again. When Turkey opened it was not because the Danish Foreign Minister had pressed for it, it was because there were thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, anti-IS demonstrators, on the streets of Turkey. Of them, about 40 were killed. So while Denmark was quiet that the border with Kobani was closed, people in Turkey were killed to protest against the Turkish Government holding its hand over the IS. We have a very, very serious case. We have a serious case because the Turkish Government will not cooperate with Denmark in the Hedegaard case. The Foreign Minister said this quite clearly: Denmark has decided to put pressure on three points which will be followed in practice, but this has not helped. The Turkish Government has brought nothing new into the matter. That is why we have to discuss today what we will do. This is a very, very serious matter. An assassinated Dane may have been extradited to IS in a prison exchange. This is a serious matter for Lars Hedegaard; it is a serious matter for Denmark because it is a breach of an agreement; and it is a very, very serious international matter because we have an ally that may hold hands over IS and even support them with foreign warriors in prison exchanges. We have a situation where Denmark is being fooled and where it is time for the Folketing to act. We need to find a way to get information from the Turkish Government. That is why I hope that today in the Folketing we can have a good debate, but also get support for action. Specifically, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I would like to make the following points: proposals for adoption: the Parliament notes that the Turkish Government is failing to fulfil its international obligations to Denmark in the case of the missing assassin in the Hedegaard case and that Islamic extremists have allegedly been able to exploit Turkey as a transit country into Syria. Against this background, the Folketing instructs the government to increase the pressure on Turkey to meet its international obligations in the fight against crime and the Islamic State. • V 7).
ParlaMint-DK_20141128125910	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128125913	I listened with great interest to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and share the view on many of the critical points relating to Turkey and the way Turkey is running. The debate here is, of course, about the fight against ISIL, and then I have to say that it struck me a little that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen does not mention Assad in one word. Assad is completely absent from Enhedslisten's speech. Is this an expression of the fact that the Enhedslisten believes that Turkey is a bigger problem in the fight against ISIL than Assad is?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128125951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128125952	No, by no means. In the Enhedslisten we are totally opposed to Assad and total opponents of ISIL. Those fights are equally important to us. We see it as two oppressive regimes. One is in Damascus, and the other is raging in Syria and northern Iraq. There we have the situation that both of them must be combated. We believe that this should be done by supporting the democratic forces that are fighting them. The problem is, of course, that Turkey is working against the struggle that is taking place quite specifically. I know Erdogan always says that his main priority is to attack Assad. Funny thing, Isaac doesn't attack Assad. They are attacking the Kurdish territories of Kobani; they are attacking the Kurdish territories of other parts of Syria. It is thought-provoking that there is this situation, and I therefore believe that a vital condition, if Denmark wants to make a difference in the fight against Assad and the fight against IS, is to support the democratic forces and put pressure on Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130054	Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130056	I don't really think I'm getting an answer to that. It is as if the focus of the Enhedslisten is that we should bash Turkey, that Turkey is the main problem in all this. Turkey can certainly be criticised and we must criticise Turkey. But does the Enhedslisten not think that President Assad is a much, much bigger problem and that it is more important that we focus on fighting Assad if we are to fight ISIL?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130128	I do not think that one excludes the other. I think so too, sir. Holger K. Nielsen agrees with me. I want to fight Assad and I want to support the democratic forces. I believe that the best way to do this is to support the democratic and diverse forces in the Kurdish territories. It is the Christian Arabs and Kurds who have decided to fight together against Assad and who are desperately trying to defend themselves against the attacks of the IS. When we have a debate today on Turkey's relationship, it is because Turkey has been making fools of us in the Hedegaard case because Turkey is keeping the border with Kobani and the Kurdish territories closed while they are holding that weapon for the extremists from the IS. It strengthens Assad; it strengthens IS. This is quite unacceptable behaviour, which we must, of course, have discussed. I am happy to have plenty of discussions on how, in addition, by supporting the democratic forces in Syria, we can contribute to the overthrow of Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130224	Sir. Lars Barfoed has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130228	I have also listened with interest to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's speech and, of course, he shares it a long way along the way, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen says about the enormous challenges facing the region, the criticism of Turkey, and I also listened to the proposal for adoption presented by Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, who said that pressure must be increased against Turkey. It sounds very good if it is the case that it could bring about what we really want to achieve, namely to have the alleged or at least accused assassin arrested and extradited to Denmark. But what exactly is it like? I'm just curious. What exactly is that like, sir? Nikolaj Villumsen wants us to increase the pressure on Turkey in such a way that we can achieve the objective we want to achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130317	Thank you. Well, that's a really good debate. In other words, the situation is that we in the Folketing have had a discussion in Foreign Policy Name the three proposals that the government agreed to put pressure on. We have all said that it was a good idea to do so. We were worried by the Enhedslisten about whether that was enough. Now it was done and we can see that the reaction is nothing. At the beginning of the week there was a meeting with the Turkish Ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He didn't bring any new information. Now, on Fridays, we are discussing what to do about it, and there is the simple proposal of the Enhedslisten to say: let us put increased pressure on Turkey; let us put increased pressure on the Turkish Government. How is this supposed to happen? I think we should discuss this in foreign policy mention. I have good suggestions on how to do that. I have a suggestion that, for example, a case could be brought before the Court of Human Rights. On the side of the Enhedslisten, we have also proposed that we should be able to withdraw the Danish NATO contribution. It may be that others have other good ideas. The crucial thing for me is that there should be increased pressure on the Turkish Government, which has so far deceived Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130427	Thank you. Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130429	I therefore agree that if increased pressure could lead us to achieve the objective of having the person in question handed over to Denmark if one can find the person in question at all, then that is very sensible, but I still need a concrete proposal that can lead to it, and I think that when one presents such a proposal for adoption, one should also say as a contribution to the discussion we should have about it: we propose that it be done in this way and in this way. I don't think I hear that. Now it is mentioned with the Danish NATO contribution, but that is not what makes Turkey think: Wow, now we must get our act together and find the person in question and hand him over to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130509	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130512	The situation is, of course, that the proposal we are now discussing on the part of the Enhedslisten, which I am really surprised that there is no support for, is to increase the pressure. I have made two specific proposals, very moderate ones. One is to go to the Court of Human Rights, in other words the Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe. That is the perfectly logical thing to do, in a situation where we have a country like Turkey which is making a fool of Denmark in an agreement concluded through the Council of Europe. The second option is to withdraw these NATO contributions. There may be other options. If I had written the two proposals, it could be rejected because precisely the two proposals did not allow any party in the Folketing or all parties in the Folketing to suffer. I'll do it constructively. I just think that we should put pressure on, and I think that we owe it to the Danish people, that we conclude that this pressure must be increased when the Turkish Government continues to fool Denmark, in a situation where a little pressure has already been put in place which has proved not to be good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130612	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pind from the Left for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130613	Thank you for that, Mr President, Commander, congratulations. May I ask sir? Nikolaj Villumsen, if he regrets that at an early stage in this process he did not support the Left's demand for exactly that, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen now wants only part of the moderate insurgents, namely support for arms so that they could have combated the situation that it has now evolved into.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130639	Thank you. President. - I call the rapporteur. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130641	No, the situation is that what you can conclude is that the free Syrian army is more or less non-existent, that many groups from it have jumped to the extremists in the IS. It has always been our concern that there was a split opposition in the so-called free Syrian army, and if they were given weapons, they could end up in the hands of the extremists in the IS. Unfortunately, there are examples of this. Those weapons are now being used to attack Christian Kurdish and Arab cities, which are desperately trying to defend themselves. If you are to give weapons to an area where there is a conflict, you have to think very carefully. You have to be sure that those to whom you give weapons are democrats, and you have to be sure that they will not use them in the wrong way. The proposals from the Left have been wisely rejected in the Enhedslisten. The examples from other countries that have followed the proposals of the Left have been really, really boring. But now we have a situation where we can see that there are some who will fight against the IS, who are democratic and diverse, and they deserve our support. It is sad that one month ago the Left voted against the proposal from the Enhedslisten to exactly support opposition to the IS attack in Kobani.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130753	There is a new comment to Mr. Søren Pind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130754	Should I understand the policy of Enhedslisten so that if you are a Kurd, you are a good, decent and decent person, if you are moderate democratic Syrians, you should certainly not be supported, because then things are going very wrong and the attitude expressed here by Nikolaj Villumsen has no involvement in the situation that has arisen? For example: Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, however, has been out in reflections on whether it had not been a good idea to deliver weapons in the past, and even the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had some of the same considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130824	Thank you. President. - I call the rapporteur. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130826	We have a situation in which the Enhedslisten has been screaming and shouting for three years in Foreign Policy Name and in all other contexts where Syria has been discussed and where we have said: Open up to the Kurdish territories. The majority of the Folketing has refused to do so, and the government has refused to put pressure on it. The Enhedslisten is not saying that only the Kurds are decent people. We say that we will not resolve the conflict in Syria if we have not secured the rights of minorities. There are 40% belonging to the minorities in Syria. I visited Syria last week. I met Arabs, I met Christians, and I met the Arab militia, which is part of the defence forces in the Kurdish territories. These are the people the Left has refused to help. They have refused to help Christians who are currently conducting a desperate defense struggle. In concrete terms, Enhedslisten proposed this. The Left voted against. I find that sad to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130920	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Pind, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128130942	A very broad debate has been convened today, I think we can say where we are going in the fight against ISIS, Turkey's involvement in this case, the Lars Hedegaard case and local rebel groups in the Middle East. The intention is to give the Enhedslisten the opportunity to botanise on issues which we have previously discussed in various consultations, during meetings of Foreign Policy Name and during the discussion of B 123 here in the Parliamentary Assembly. In relation to the fight against ISIS, where Denmark is contributing F-16 aircraft in Iraq, I would like to express the continued support of the Left for the military mission. I have been able to see how certain parties have become more reserved in their support here just two months after we dealt with the matter in the Folketing. I am surprised, because it has been clear from the beginning that the fight against ISIS would be long and at the same time challenge the image that has been drawn of a pure battle between good and so-called evil. This has not least been the case in the debate on ISIS, which, according to all I can judge, is one of the worst terrorist movements we have yet got acquainted with. This does not mean that the fight against ISIS is without paradoxes. We have recently seen the description of some of the extreme groups that are indirectly allied in our fight against ISIS. Of course, we have not fought to support them, but on the other hand we have to say that the slowness, the slowness with which the West reacted to the situation has created a situation which is totally unsustainable and which now makes us have to react the stronger. That's why it's probably hard to be picky now with who you're working with. In other words, the situation is largely due to the fact that the more moderate forces in Syria, formerly dominant in the conflict, have been outmaneuvered and marginalised and, in my view, entirely and solely because of the lack of support, among other things. very directly from the Enhedslisten. In addition, it is generally recognised that the Iraqi Government has failed to include its political opponents in the country's leadership. These are well-known sizes, and there is no greater reason to go into that question. But this is where we find the main reasons for the patchwork of rebel groups we see today. For the Left, the conflict in Syria, which has since ended up spreading to Iraq, has been about choosing from its beginning the least poor solution in a situation where there have been only bad solutions. We have long advocated Western engagement in the region before the situation escalated further. It has taken its time, but we are here today, where an international coalition led by America is actively fighting ISIS by military means. We welcome this because we believe that it is also in Denmark's direct interest to stop ISIS and ensure peace and stability in the region. If in doubt, the debate on fluctuating asylum numbers and Danes fighting for ISIS has not been followed. Whether it's too late is an open question. If nothing else, it is at least the hope of the Left that what happened before we resorted to military means of power will stand as a disgrace over passive foreign policy, which, among other things, is. led to what the United Nations described as the greatest humanitarian disaster in recent times. Today, when the Enhedslisten chooses to link the Hedegaard case to Turkey's role in the fight against ISIS, one might have the idea that it suggests that the government has been reluctant not to compromise the Danish relationship with Turkey at a time when our soldiers are active in neighbouring Iraq. To that I would just say as part of, I myself would say, an active opposition, that our view in the Left is that the government has taken the Hedegaard case seriously and reacted, as we thought was justified. Finally, let me remind you that, despite our considerable international commitment, Denmark is of limited size, which of course limits our scope for action, and in that light we must see things. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Liberal Alliance [and the Conservative People's Party] I think I have had everyone present with the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Government's statement on the international action against the terrorist group ISIL and the Danish military contribution on the basis of Parliament's decision B 123, as well as the government's diplomatic, stabilising and humanitarian efforts. The Folketing endorses the Government's view that a broad international coalition against ISIL is still needed and that, in particular, the countries of the region, including Turkey, must play an active and constructive role in international action against ISIL.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131505	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. And I'd like to add that sir... I think Lars Barfoed, the Conservative People's Party, is also in on this proposal. Søren Pind, I'm sorry! ) That was good. Thank you, rapporteur. There is a question from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131519	Thank you. In other words, when we say that the Hedegaard case and the fight against IS are connected, it is because, among other things, we... Fear that the Dane suspected of assassination, who has disappeared, may have been extradited to IS in a prison exchange, and that is a worrying situation. When Mr. Søren Pind was a minister, he called himself Minister for Freedom, and when we have listened to the Left over the years, we have often heard them speak for freedom of speech. Now we have a situation in which an assassinated Dane disappears from Turkish prisons and may be extradited to the extremists in the IS. The government has put pressure on three points and, in the light of the meeting with the Turkish ambassador on Monday, it must conclude that it has not helped. No new information came from Turkey. Why does the Left refuse to exert increased pressure? Why not put pressure on the Turkish Government so that we can get the truth on this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131621	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131623	The good thing about being Minister for Freedom is that after all it is a title that neither the Folketing nor anyone else can take from you. You can continue to do so, so I would not say that there is anything from past times. To Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen I would like to point out that we are not talking about relaxing pressure on Turkey or about possibly not increasing it at all. We have just agreed with the government on what a proportional response has been and is. So, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's attempt to draw a picture that now nothing is being done, I think it is wrong. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to elaborate on this later. That is what he said very well here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131700	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131702	I have to say, I'm completely speechless. So, we have a situation where a close ally of Denmark may have handed over a Dane to the extremists in the IS in violation of the UN's clear decisions. It is a breach of an agreement reached many years ago between Denmark and Turkey on the exchange of citizens suspected of crime in each other's countries. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, We are in a situation where the Left says it is proportional not to do anything; it is therefore proportional to vote against the Enhedslisten's proposal to increase the pressure. It is a quiet and quiet proposal, and if the Left wants to increase the pressure, then vote for the Enhedslisten's proposal. Otherwise, it must be concluded that the Left will stand still.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131747	It is usually always proportional to vote against the Enhedslisten proposal. In addition, however, I would like to say that the efforts of the government include: protests to the Turkish Government, reflections on action in the Council of Europe and the like, of course, do not indicate that nothing is being done. But what Enhedslisten has done in this matter has proved to be unrealistic things that could not be done after all, and that is the problem in this context. The Left strongly opposes Turkey's action in this matter. But we also believe that what can then be done must be within the framework that is not outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131823	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. John Dyrby Paulsen, Social Democrats, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128131832	Thank you for that, President. Former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger once said that the West cannot wage war in the Middle East without Egypt and cannot make peace without Syria. Today I think he would say that the West cannot make peace in Syria at least not alone. We can, among other things. not, inter alia, Because of ISIL, which we are discussing here today. I think this is a welcome opportunity to discuss what we are doing to ISIL. It must also be said that it is such a rather odd enquiry text from the Enhedslisten, in other words that we must now focus on Turkey's role and Denmark's relationship with Turkey. I think it's mixing things up a little. There is no doubt about this and it must also have been made absolutely clear with the Foreign Minister's speech that we must have a good relationship with Turkey. Turkey is a major regional power, but it is certainly not the only ones involved in the fight against ISIL in one way or another. I get the idea, when I hear Enhedslisten's argument, that perhaps this is primarily about safeguarding the special interests of Enhedslisten in relation to the Kurdish Marxists in the PKK and their Syrian allies in the Democratic Unity Party, also known as PYD. That's fair enough. However, I think that we are completely forgetting the somewhat problematic relationship that Turkey has rightly had with the PKK and their actions, among others. In Turkey, there could well be a reminiscent of terrorist activity. I think that should also be included in the equation when assessing Turkey's action in relation to the PKK and the situation in northern Syria at the border with Turkey. I also think it is worth pointing out that in the fight against ISIL there are a number of measures that are not only about military action and military means against ISIL, but also about creating order, calm and better conditions in the region as a whole. It is, of course, a matter of diplomatic action, both in relation to Turkey, but also in relation to Iraq, and of putting pressure through the European Union on the players in the region. This applies, of course, to Assad in Syria, to Iraq, to Iran, and to some extent to Turkey. There is also the civilian effort to which Denmark is contributing, and next year that contribution will amount to 100 million. kr. This is among other things. a transitional programme to ensure that we contribute to a political solution and that a conflict resolution of a political nature is initiated in Syria. In Iraq, we have set aside 75 million. kr. to develop civil society, to develop the media and to engage in an unfortunate dialogue. This is also something that needs to be taken into account in the fight for a more stable and quiet region. We have also agreed in the UN Security Council to put forward proposals to combat foreign fighters, which, of course, also applies. And it is clear that we must put pressure on Turkey in this context. I was in Turkey at the beginning of October, and what I could hear from my Turkish colleagues was that there was also concern about it and about what happened at the United Nations. Finally, we have contributed to the humanitarian effort in the region and in the crisis in Syria, so far with more than 800 million. kr. This is also needed, and it is necessary for those people who suffer harm in Syria as a result of the civil war. So we have done something, and the international coalition has done something, and we keep doing something. I have also noted that the United Nations Special Envoy in Syria has said that we are now facing something that might well look like a turn of events. It is not a very optimistic but a very cautious assessment. In all of this, there is considerable American pressure, not least on ISIL, and there is good reason for this. We are also taking part in that pressure in Iraq, and of course we wholeheartedly support it. There is no doubt that Turkey's policy on extradition is totally unacceptable. Turkey should have acted differently and should have acted more quickly on the questions raised by the Danish Government and also on the considerable pressure exerted by the Foreign Minister and the Danish Government. After all, I welcome the fact that the pressure continues to be put on Turkey, that is, that we do not stop it, and that is why I think it is rather a blow in the air that the Enhedslisten is proposing that we increase the pressure. It is my clear impression that the government and, above all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs are keeping to the pressure on Turkey. That's right to do, and that's good. But it is also a question of acting within the framework there is. The examples of increased pressure on Turkey, which I have heard from the Enhedslisten, are frankly not very useful, to say the least. So to sum things up, the fight against ISIL is important. It is crucial and it will take a long time. There are some points of light, but there are not many. There's a lot to be worried about. There are also many reasons and reasons to be nervous about whether we are going to achieve this. But there is no way around fighting ISIL in every way also through cooperation with Turkey and trying to get Turkey to perhaps act a little differently than they have done so far. These are also some of the things I hear from my Turkish colleagues. On the other hand, I do not have any real or realistic plans on the part of the Enhedslisten to combat ISIL. Well, you want to arm the Iraqi Kurds, and you want to send money to the Syrian Kurds as well. It can and I emphasize can be a part of this in many ways, but it's also the only thing. And I find it hard to see that in itself it helps fight ISIL or fight them down. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132504	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132509	The Socialist rapporteur says that pressure is being put on the Turkish Government. That is correct. However, since we took that decision in this Parliament to put pressure on the Turkish Government, the following has happened. First of all, we have been told nothing new in the matter. When, as we have been informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have talked to the Turkish Ambassador, there has been nothing new. Furthermore, since then we have been able to see on Turkish television that Turkish soldiers stand on the Turkish side of the border together with IS warriors and friendly chatter, after which the IS warriors go back and attack the democratic, Christian Arab and Kurdish forces in Kobani. Is it not time for renewed and increased pressure to be exerted on the Turkish Government within the framework, in other words by going to the Court of Human Rights and withdrawing a military contribution? Hey! Well, that's within the framework. Will the Socialists not increase the pressure at all in a situation where the Turkish Government ignores the pressure that has been put so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132615	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132617	In other words, constant and constant pressure is being put on Turkey to help them solve this issue. This is true both in relation to the person who was imprisoned in Turkey and whom we would like to have extradited, and also in relation to the situation in Kobani and other parts of northern Syria where there is a fight against ISIL. So it is not a question of the Danish Government saying: we are not doing that anymore. There is constant, constant pressure on the Turkish Government to help them, and I do not see that any of the things that Enhedslisten is proposing should in any way help to push Turkey into something like this. It is a question of treating Turkey as a partner and thus trying to push them. I think that is far, far more fruitful than starting with such threat scenarios, which I do not believe are something that Turkey will respond to at all. Especially the thing about dragging Danish NATO soldiers away from Turkey... that's not very many we have there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132724	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132725	Frankly, I think that we are in a situation where there is persistent and constant naivety on the part of the Socialists. In other words, we are dealing with a Turkish government that stood by and made sure that 40 anti-IS demonstrators were killed in the Turkish streets. We have a situation in which the pressure that has been decided upon has not helped. We are dealing with a government that kills its own people when they demand that it stop working with the IS. And we can see that the pressure we have put on the Danish side does not work. Honestly, isn't it naive not to increase the pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132804	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132805	It would be naive if you didn't keep that pressure on you. You can discuss what increased pressure is. What Enhedslisten has proposed is not an increase in pressure. What really works in this context is to continue to have that pressure on Turkey and to keep telling Turkey that this is not acceptable, to keep saying to Turkey that we want them to play an active part in this fight, among other things. in northern Syria, but also in other parts of Syria, and especially in the fight against IS. I think that if anything is naive in this context, it is to believe that Enhedslisten's proposal should move anything in Turkey. It won't do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132837	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128132846	Thank you, and also thanks to Enhedslisten for having raised the discussion. I think it is essential to have this discussion about our participation in wars in various places also outside the Foreign Policy Name and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so it is good that it comes to the Chamber. When it comes to the proposals for adoption, we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to support the broad proposal and therefore also the government in the way it contributes to the fight against ISIL, and thus we stand together with the majority here. We agree with the government that in this ongoing fight Turkey is a very important and also valued alliance partner. Turkey's initial manoeuvre as an alliance partner, however, will not go down in history as a crown of glory. To put it mildly, the Turks were reluctant in their support for the fight against ISIL. Only now do I think that some sort of commitment is gradually being shown, although it still cannot be said to be direct. Directly obstructive, however, I think the Turks have appeared in connection with the Lars Hedegaard case, and I believe that many Danes have been outraged by our alliance partner's performance. In this whole game, the Danish government doesn't reap any praises either. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should have dealt with the problem differently or at least failed to throw the towel in the ring on what I consider to be a usual radical little-puttraumeman. I think it is a word I have made up myself so that Turkey could actually read in Berlingske that Denmark has now actually closed the case and packed it up. In this field, I think that in recent years Denmark has developed unlucky, as the government is falling back so small to the ills of the past, where official Denmark not only went cautiously in relation to unpleasant states but bowed to them. We have seen it painfully for a long time in relation to Communist Kina, and we are seeing it now in relation to it, unfortunately, more and more Islamist Turkey. It is not nice in these times to trace a repetition of our country's sad foreign policy standard from the 1930s. Happy P. Munch would have rejoiced that his party has not changed the very least, for in one and the same week two of his contemporary party colleagues actually succeeded in making him the art after. It was the Minister of Culture who in Peking bowed to the Communists by at the last minute slipping off at an agreed meeting that she had with the freedom fighter Ai Weiwei, and the Foreign Minister who suddenly stopped all further criticism of Turkey despite President Erdogan's release of Hedegaard's assassin. As is the case today with the current ambassadors of both China and Turkey, at that time the German ambassador was embittered by making complaints about all the things in the world: insulting newspaper articles, who visited Denmark, were wrong judgments. These were protests of the kind we also know in a large way today Chinese for harassing our business people and our politicians as well as, for example, our restaurants or others who have housed the wrong meetings. Just as today's businessmen are pushing to make exports to Communist China more flexible and to the growing Turkish market, leading businessmen in the 1930s called for more inclusiveness and understanding of German Nazism by the government and the press. As the Danish newspaper Børsen wrote back in the 1930s: It can never be the responsibility of the government or the Danish press to make the trade balance more difficult by interfering untimely in political relations in our southern neighbouring country. Perhaps it is time for the official Danish side to start ripping their backs again. My fear and that of the Danish People's Party is that Denmark will once again become a country of peril. However, as has been said, in the fight against ISIL and all the ills of this miserable movement we stand together on land, and here it is appropriate to thank our crew for our fighter aircraft, which, day after day, with precise bombings weakens the enemy. So, finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I shall send a warm greeting to our skilful air force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133324	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133329	Thank you. It's actually kind of hard to believe your own ears. Well, we have a situation where Mr. Søren Espersen, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, stands and says that the Islamist Turkish president and his government are a valued alliance partner, an esteemed alliance partner, at a time when the Turkish Government is fooling Denmark. Honestly, isn't that sir? Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti, who suffer from a small-puttraume, reject the simple proposal from the Enhedslisten that pressure should be increased on the Turkish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133406	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133407	Turkey has been a valued alliance partner in NATO for decades. That's what I'm referring to. I think it has been extremely important for NATO to have Turkey as a member from the very outset. In relation to the Soviet Union, Turkey was at that time in a fantastic geographical position, so it has been immensely important that we have brought Turkey in. The mediating role of Turkey in the Middle East, which they are unfortunately giving up, was also very, very important for many years. So that's what I mean by it being a valued alliance partner. That is why we cannot just ignore them and pretend that they no longer exist. I don't know what, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen had imagined. We must protest, and we have done so. I think, then, that it should have been done in a completely different way from what has happened, but now it is so. The bird has actually flown, and enough resurrection on that occasion will not make us get the man back to Denmark again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133514	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133515	Well, that's almost tragic to hear. The Danish People's Party jumps up like bears or lions when it comes to Turkey and the EU, but falls down like small lambs when it comes to Turkey and NATO. Come on, sir. Søren Espersen: It's a small-puttraume. It is an expression of a small-puttraume that we can have a Turkish government that fools Denmark and a Danish People's Party that falls down like soft lambs and votes against increasing pressure on the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133547	I don't know if I'm a soft lamb. But I think it has to be said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has dealt with this matter in the wrong way. I would have liked to see the Danish ambassador in Ankara referred back to what is called a consultation. That would have been a very, very strong diplomatic step to take. In NATO cooperation, I find the problem more difficult. However, as far as the European Union is concerned, I believe that the European Union should see this as a lesson in what it means to have Turkey as a member. This is, in fact, a very good lesson in what kind of country Turkey is developing into. The other European partners can then be put under pressure in connection with accession negotiations with Turkey, I think that is excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133627	The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128133634	Thank you. Then we almost came all around the world. I think I'll stick to the area, if you can call it the Middle East. We are happy to participate in the broad action against IS in all parts. This applies both to humanitarian action, to the fight against violent extremism, to military action and, above all, to diplomatic action, which I think the Danish Government has carried out through a very active and good policy. This is both about diplomatic action against the Iraqis and the Iraqi Government, the effort to have a broad and inclusive government, which we know to be part or part of the solution, and it is also about involving the countries of the region in the fight against the IS. One of the countries that is very important in this effort is Turkey. Turkey is important because of the humanitarian effort that Turkey is currently hosting over a million refugees from the war in Iraq and Syria. For this reason, I also think that we should be careful with our words in the Enhedslist and only to beat Turkey and say that Turkey is fooling us, that Turkey is obstructing efforts and so on, when it is Turkey that is taking the greatest responsibility in terms of humanitarian action. Turkey is also important in the fight against foreign fighters. This is incredibly important when it comes to who comes in and out at border crossings. Turkey is also important because Turkey houses the moderate Syrian opposition and because of the fight against Assad, and Turkey is of course also important in the specific Hedegaard case. I think the Minister has explained very well how pressure has been put on Turkey both in the Hedegaard case and in the wider fight against IS. As far as the broad approach is concerned, it is clear that there are areas where we believe that Turkey does not yet provide enough. I also agree, and I think most of us may be, in Mr. Søren Espersen's observation that it was not the finest start Turkey had in this effort, but Turkey has come for it and is heading in the right direction. However, it is clear that we must continue to exert pressure on Turkey to take part in the fight against the IS, but right now we can see that it is moving in the right direction and that Turkey is, moreover, taking a very great responsibility with regard to humanitarian action and the many refugees coming from the areas. As far as the specific Hedegaard case is concerned, we must continue to exert pressure, and it is of course frustrating to us that it has not led us very far so far so far, but I think that no matter how much Enhedslisten stands here and drums on the table, it will not bring us any closer to getting the person in question home to Denmark. That, in fact, is the purpose. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is dangerous to confuse the two issues too much, because it is clear that when it comes to the Hedegaard case, the Danish Government must put strong pressure on Turkey. We must note that we have not made much of it yet, but instead of hitting the Danish Government, which I think has done as much as it could almost, I think that one could, of course, continue to be critical of Turkey. That's what the rest of us do. I think that care should be taken to involve this issue in the broad fight against IS. I think it is going to sound incredibly hollow when Enhedslisten makes the confusion, because the pressure we have to put on Turkey to strengthen the fight against the IS is a pressure that a small country like Denmark is putting on, so I should be the one to say that we are a small country. Søren Pind saw too, or at least that we are just part of a larger alliance, that we should put as part of a larger alliance, because alone we cannot push Turkey to go further in these very important areas. This is something we must do together in the coalition, and there is no doubt that if Enhedslisten had been right and we had not been part of this coalition, we would have had nothing at all to say and had no opportunity at all to put pressure on Turkey, and that is why I think this whole question debate looks like a farce a tiny bit, because the Enhedslisten is driving itself into a very, very high gear, using very, very violent words, and what is just the reality is that if Denmark is to put pressure on Turkey in this area, it is going through the coalition. If we weren't part of it, we wouldn't have anything to say at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134110	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134114	Let me remind the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Zenia Stampe, that the Enhedslisten has voted in favour of transporting arms and humanitarian aid to the Kurdish regional government in Northern Iraq. We have not then voted in favour of helping the sectarian Iraqi Government in Baghdad to bomb, and there are good reasons for this. It was also a discussion last week because it could be seen that that government has been guilty of serious war crimes which I believe will strengthen the IS. So the farce of which the radical rapporteur is afraid of Enhedslisten is guilty, I do not think it is happening. On the other hand, I would like to hear from the radical rapporteur: how are things going in the right direction? We therefore have a situation in which the borders with the Kurdish territories and the borders with Kobani are still closed so that the wounded cannot get out and be treated. We have a situation where we can see that since the government decided to put the pressure decided upon after all, Turkish soldiers continue to chat and chat with IS fighters on the Turkish side of the border. So, is it going in the right direction, and what does it take for us to go in a different direction and start putting increased pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134229	Firstly, Turkey now offers the opportunity to train some of the forces that have to go up against ISIL in Turkey, and Turkey has also opened the border with the peshmerga forces so that they can enter Kobani. So something has happened and it is going in the right direction. But it is clear that what makes this conflict so immensely complicated is that all countries have all kinds of interests. Now we heard Mr. John Dyrby Paulsen be kind enough to say something direct that you might be afraid to say openly. But I have also Enhedslisten suspected of using this debate and this whole matter as a standing debate for something quite different, namely the Kurdish question. This is a completely different and very complicated debate, but there is no doubt that some of the reservations Turkey has had are due to fear of indirectly supporting the PKK. We believe that, despite this fear, we should have gone further or, at least, opened up earlier. But that is a consideration which is there and which needs to be taken into account and which is also legitimate to some extent. After all, like all the other countries in the region, we have appealed to Turkey to try to put aside old conflicts and other conflicts and instead stand together to fight against the IS. And I think a piece has already been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134355	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134356	I mean, we have a situation where Turkey keeps the border with Kobani closed. We have a situation in which Turkish soldiers are chatting with IS fighters and allowing them to cross the Turkish border and attack Kobani. We have a situation where Denmark has decided to put pressure on, but it has not helped, and we have a situation where the Danish Foreign Minister when the UN criticised Turkey keeping the border with Kobani closed was quiet. He didn't say anything. Why should Denmark not increase the pressure? Why should Denmark not put pressure on the Turkish Government so that the democratic forces in Syria can be helped so that the civilians who are currently fearing to get their heads cut off can have a helping hand? Why should Denmark watch passively?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134442	Well, we also have a situation where there are about 1.1 million refugees and where the moderate Syrian opposition is in Turkey. So I do not agree that the situation is so black and white that Turkey simply obstructs everything. Turkey is an important alliance partner for us and is already making a major contribution. And yes, we want more, but we have also made some progress, among other things. the border has been opened. Not quite to the extent we wanted, but to an extent. So it's going the right way. I think we all agree that pressure on Turkey must be increased, but the question is whether it should be increased here from Parliament's platform or whether it should be increased through an alliance where we make a credible and significant contribution. And that's where I think we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134526	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134528	I know, of course, that the Radical Left is enthusiastic supporters of Turkey's accession to the European Union. Does Mrs Zenia Stampe think that the development that has taken place in Turkey, with the beginnings of Islamism and with what we have then experienced in relation to Lars Hedegaard, has brought Turkey closer to EU membership or further from EU membership?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134552	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134553	This has, of course, brought Turkey further from EU membership. However, Turkey can rectify this again, and none of us believe that Turkey will join the European Union in a very, very short period of time. It is clear that we have always been in favour of enlargement because we see it as a democratisation and an enlargement of the Europe that we like and of which we also want Turkey to be a part. But it is clear that we have always maintained that there are some things to be fulfilled in order to become part of that community, and it is clear that when you act, as Turkey has done in this matter, you move further away. But it is not impossible for Turkey to get back on track. But no, we do not say yes to Turkey at all costs. Turkey must also earn the right to be a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134644	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134645	I am pleased that it is being said that Turkey has now moved further away from the European Union in the eyes of the Radicals. What I would like to call for is that the Radicals, through the government, also tell our EU partners this, because I do not think they are aware of the Lars Hedegaard case and what has actually happened to scandals. So I would like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe whether she will help the Foreign Minister at the next meeting of the European Union circle to give a good talk about what has happened, so that the other countries can also see that Turkey has now moved further away from the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134718	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134719	I do not really understand this question, because it is something we have mentioned in the past, and the government has clearly stated that it will be open about this process. We have not been able to get the whole of the European Union to stand behind us, because then I think all countries could make some requests to support this and that individual country's bilateral relations with Turkey, or whatever other countries it may be. But we have always said that this was not something we wanted to go along with, it was something we wanted to include in the talks about the enlargement of Turkey. And it is clear that this has made us less convinced that within a few years they will be entitled to join the European Union. For it is clear that such a thing cannot take place if one is to qualify to be a member of the European Union. But I think the government and the minister have been very open about this, and that is why I do not fully understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134812	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is a new rapporteur. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128134824	Like other colleagues, I also think that it is a very unfocused question text that has been made here. It is about many different things: is it about the fight against ISIL, is it about the right of the Kurds to self-determination, is it about the Lars Hedegaard case, is it about Turkey now having a pinch in its nose? I think it is in all sorts of directions, and that is also why there are two texts for adoption, which are of course about something very different. We can vote in favour of both texts, but there is only one that will be voted in favour, and there we think that the government covers much more what this is all about, namely the fight against ISIL, and has such a broad approach to that discussion, much more than the Enhedslisten's proposal does. So that is why we are co-sponsors of that proposal for adoption. I therefore share a very large part of the criticism made by Enhedslisten in relation to Turkey. Turkey's behaviour in many of these things has been very much what I would call scandalous. For a long time, if I may say so, it has been forgotten that foreign fighters came to Syria, where the fight against the Kurds in Turkey is more concerned than with the fight against ISIL, and where the case of Lars Hedegaard has not acted with much solidarity in relation to a partner in an alliance. But I also think it is important that this does not become too black and white and that you have the impression that this conflict is very, very complex, because there are many different interests running across each other. While Turkey must be criticised for this, we must also bear in mind that Turkey has accepted many, many refugees, that it is Turkey that is holding hands under the moderate opposition in Syria, the free Syrian army, that Turkey is, after all, a very active player in the fight against Assad. That's why we're gonna have to see these things together. I agree with Enhedslisten that the Kurds are a very, very important factor in all this, that the Kurds are a great resource in the fight against ISIL and should also be in the fight against Assad. But the problem here has been, and we must then be honest, I would like to say to Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen, I myself am a great supporter of the Kurds, has supported them over the years very, very intensely and wants them to have their own state but we have to take part in the picture here that PYD has had an alliance with Assad, and that is one of the reasons why it has been so difficult to make it work in the Syrian opposition. I think we must also say to each other that part of this must also be that we get PYD and the Kurds in Syria to take the fight against Assad more seriously than they have done. Something is probably happening, there are some rapprochements between the free Syrian army and then PYD and the other groups, and that is fine. But we also have to take this with us, not least because we will not fight ISIL unless we fight Assad too. I thought it was fantastic that we managed to stop ISIL's advance towards Kobani. If Kobani had fallen, it would have been a very, very great victory for ISIL, and it is important for the Kurds that we saved them from being massacred by ISIL, as well as it was important that the Kurds were saved from being massacred in Erbil in northern Iraq. And I assume that Enhedslisten agrees with us that it was those bomb attacks that saved the Kurds from ISIL, both in Kobani and also in Erbil. But the problem has been, and it shows something about the complexity here, that when American bombers have bombed to save the Kurds in Kobani, it has been seen elsewhere in Syria as a support for Assad, and therefore there has been a very, very strong response against these bombings, precisely because it is perceived in this way that we are just going to support the Kurds and not fight Assad. We need to support the Kurds, we need to have the Kurds as an important part of the fight against ISIL, but hopefully also in the fight against Assad. That's why we have to see these two things together. That is why it is pointless for us to use our gunpowder solely to go after Turkey; it is simply not enough. Turkey must be criticised, but for us, Turkey is not the biggest problem in this. That is the biggest problem, and will remain President Assad of Damascus, and we must fight him, and we must have that as the starting point for all of this. That is why I think this focus has been wrong, and I hope that we will be able to discuss this further in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135402	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135404	Thank you. That's kind of weird. It is strange that last week people were in Syria talking to Kurds who have lost relatives who have themselves been fighting Assad's forces, then a week after standing in parliament and being told that the very same Kurds are allies with Assad. Well, the situation is exactly complex, which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also says. After all, the situation is that the so-called free Syrian army supported by Denmark did not want to guarantee the rights of Christians, guarantee the rights of the drunkards, guarantee the rights of the Kurds, in other words guarantee the rights of the minority population in a new Syria. And then the Kurds, Christians and Arab groups in the north of the country have said that we are defending our own territories, and then we are trying to make a model here for a democratic Syria. So, is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not agree that if we do not resolve the minority issue in Syria, there will be no peaceful, democratic Syria in the future, either an Assadsyria or an Islamist fundamentalist Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135514	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135515	Well, I totally agree with that consideration and approach to it. That is why I also said that I have always supported the efforts of the Kurds and what the Kurds have done there. But it can't hide the fact that PYD eventually entered into a tactical alliance with Assad. Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also well done. We have had our reasons for this, I agree, and we can discuss those reasons, but it has just been a coincidence; hopefully it is changing now. But the problem is that when we go in and defend the Kurds what we have to do, it is interpreted elsewhere in Syria as a support for Assad; that is where the whole complexity comes in. That is why the Enhedslisten has to think about this complexity when we discuss these things, they cannot just say that there is a great evil power in this, and it is Turkey, and that if we just get a base in Turkey, we will solve this. I think that is a complete analysis of what is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135625	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135626	I do not believe that Turkey is the only problem in relation to the IS, in relation to the fight against Assad. I have by no means claimed that, and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also well. But when I think it is relevant to discuss it today, it is because we have a close ally, which I do not think contributes enough to the fight against the IS, to the fight against crime, which is, of course, the essence of the Lars Hedegaard case. That is why I would like to hear SF: when the SF rapporteur says that you could vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal, why is it that you do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135703	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135704	The Enhedslisten sent me his proposal yesterday afternoon, at the end of the afternoon, at 9 a.m. Five or so. This shows that Enhedslisten has never had any interest in negotiating this with other parties. At that time I had been in contact with the government and seen their draft proposals which I think are excellent. And if I were to choose between the two, I would still choose the government's, because it's much more widely addressed in terms of what is the main discussion in this. So the answer to this is simple enough, I think it is simply better, it covers better than Enhedslistens does, but Enhedslistens we could also vote in favour if we had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135747	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is a new rapporteur and that is Mrs Mette Bock, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128135800	Thank you. After all, it is a debate that spans incredibly far from Iraq over Syria to ISIL and the Kurds and Lars Hedegaard, and what do I know? So I guess Enhedslisten has missed an opportunity to have a lot of really exciting and substantive query debates here in the coming months, but that is the choice of Enhedslisten. In any case, it is important to discuss these things. I think it is essential to recognise that this is a deep, deeply problematic area, as many of us once again confirmed yesterday when we took part in several briefings in various committees. It has to be said that this is so complex and that the lines of conflict are so complex in the area that it is immensely difficult. But then there are also bright points, and I would like to acknowledge that the Minister explained in his statement that some progress is actually being made. If we look at Iraq and the new government at least expressed the intention to involve all sections of the population as well, I do think that this is a positive step in the right direction, because the protection of minorities is the first and most important step towards actually bringing together a society. The question then is what can be put together, but it has to be the next one. We in the Liberal Alliance are pleased that we are helping to support the participation of our fighter aircraft and that we support capacity building. These are small contributions, but they are important contributions and it is essential that the international community is united in the fight against ISIL. Then, when we come to Turkey, I think that the development of recent years shows a great deal what limbo Turkey is in. On the one hand, Turkey is actually doing some things that are quite excellent. I think that we should have a great deal of respect for the fact that Turkey has accepted 1.1 million refugees from Syria on its own and that they actually treat the refugees very well. On the other hand, we have to say that it is deeply questionable that Turkey is both being used or being used as a recruitment base. Foreign fighters have far too good conditions in Turkey. And on the close agenda, which in fact also has a fundamental and much broader meaning, I think that the case of Lars Hedegaard shows that Turkey is still very far from applying the standards that we apply in democratic countries. That is why Turkey must remain under constant pressure, and we must do so with the means that we have to exert pressure. I don't think that the way Enhedslisten is going to go is way one There are many ways to put this pressure on, and we have to keep pursuing, among other things. the case of Lars Hedegaard, as far as we can at all. We still have to ask questions, and we still have to demand answers, and we still have to make it clear that the treatment given to the Hedegaard case in Turkey is totally unacceptable. We should not keep that to ourselves. We must also make the other European countries realise this. So there's a long way to go. I would just like to make one comment on the speech by the Danish People's Party on Turkey's accession to the European Union. As I see it, Turkey is clearly turning the antennas at the moment. The great interest that Turkey showed a few years ago in joining the European Union has been dampened quite considerably. It is for two reasons. Paragraph 1: The European Union has not been particularly fortunate in dealing with the economic crisis. Paragraph 2: In relation to the developments taking place in the region, I see no doubt that Turkey wants to take a leading position in the region, and that is what they are about to do now. So the interest on the part of Turkey is for me to see the chill quite considerably and it will be interesting to see what is happening in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140212	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140215	Thank you. Anyone who follows the debate on Turkish membership of the European Union knows that this is a completely theoretical debate. As one TV 2-journalist said, yes, this Hedegaard case comes down into the pile of thousands of cases in the Turkish legal system that do not work according to fundamental democratic rule of law. So it is a free round for LA to stand around with Turkish EU membership. But I just have to understand LA's rapporteur correctly: in other words, the way to increase the pressure on Turkey is not to vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal, and I quote: to oblige the government to increase the pressure on the Turkish Government. The simple proposal of the Enhedslisten is simply to increase the pressure on the Turkish Government and require the government to do so and then to discuss it in the Folketing. If LA has a suggestion as to how that road would be a good one to go, I'd be happy to listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140316	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140318	We have, of course, seen this as being part of the second proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140323	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140325	But the second proposal for adoption is fine. It just does not say anything about increasing the pressure, it says that it is pleased that Turkey is making an active effort. Turkey just does not make an active effort when Turkish soldiers stand and talk to IS warriors when they fool Denmark in the Hedegaard case. Dear Liberal Alliance, Mrs Mette Bock, the situation is that the Turkish Government is doing nothing and that the pressure that has been put so far has not helped, so why is the way forward not to increase the pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140356	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140357	I think that the rapporteur's description of the second proposal for adoption very well shows that the rapporteur agrees with this. So we all agree on both proposals, which is why I do not understand why Enhedslisten wants to go solo in this. If we are going to have anything at all like a small country in relation to Turkey, then I think we need to be united.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128140445	There are good reasons why it is a worldwide coalition that is now taking part in the fight against ISIL, also with a large number of Arab countries. We are, of course, in Denmark in that coalition because we want to take responsibility for ending the atrocities committed by ISIL in northern Iraq. But we are certainly also involved because it is in our national interest to be involved. Foreign policy is precisely about safeguarding our own interests, protecting our own values, our right to live in our own country, as we ourselves wish. And if a fundamentalist caliphate develops in many parts of Iraq, then it is a threat to our world, it is a threat to our values, a threat to our being able to live in our country in the way we want to, because it will be a hotbed of terrorism aimed at the Western world. That is why we are present with our F-16 aircraft and the crew associated with them, as well as with training, training and staff. The Conservative People's Party remains clearly behind this. We would actually have liked to have gone further from the conservative side with the mandate given to the government on that occasion than the government itself requested. And even though we are now far from the goal of ISIL, we have not been defeated in any way, and it will take a long time for that to happen, but that is the goal, so that we can now see that the desired effect is achieved. The progress and progress of ISIL have been stopped. They are not attacking at all now in the same way as we saw a few weeks ago and a few months ago. It has had an effect, not least that the air bombardments have been launched against ISIL in northern Iraq, which we are contributing to, but also in Syria, to which others are contributing. I also think that the Foreign Minister's statements just now confirmed this. Therefore, there is also a good reason why we on the Danish Parliament today thank the Danes who are sending out a very good effort in the area. We can all be proud of this and enjoy it. As far as Turkey is concerned, the question here also includes Turkey and the case of the Danish citizen, who was mysteriously released by the Turkish authorities, there is certainly reason to criticise Turkey strongly for the release of the assassinate in the Lars Hedegaard case. The aim must be for Turkey to help get the person in question apprehended again, if at all possible, and to have him transferred to Denmark so that a trial can be brought against him. I have criticised the government on several occasions for not wanting to raise the matter with the European Union in order to put more pressure on Turkey through the European Union than we can as a country alone. I had the opportunity to raise it with the new Commissioner for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, recently when she visited us, and she actually said that she was prepared to take the matter up directly with Turkey. After all, the Foreign Minister confirmed today that the Commission will and that the Foreign Commissioner will. I think it is gratifying that we have now reached the point where we will also have the support of the European Union in putting pressure on Turkey in this way. At the same time, we must also be aware that Turkey is an important partner in a wide range of other contexts. We have no interest in changing that. In order to return to the situation in Iraq, there is no reason to hide the fact that it is a very complex situation with a wide range of dilemmas. The situation in Iraq is closely linked to the situation in Syria, where we see a terrible situation for the civilian population in a civil war that has been going on for far too long and which is still not going to end at the moment. ISIL stands both in Iraq and in Syria, and where we have no chance of directly intervening in the civil war in Syria, we can make an effort and that is what we are doing to combat ISIL. And there is no doubt that, regardless of how the situation develops, it is necessary to put an end to the civil war in Syria and to remove Assad, that ISIL is being combated, and therefore there are many good reasons why we in Denmark should be standing where we stand in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128141020	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128141024	Thank you very much. Let me start by thanking all the parties of the Folketing for what I really think has been a good debate. I may agree with some of the rapporteurs who have said that this has been a very broad debate and that the issue was also very broadly worded, but I nevertheless think it has been a good debate thanks to very focused and good contributions from the rapporteurs. A great deal of thanks to the bourgeois opposition, led by the Left, which I think shows that in this Parliament we can sometimes look beyond the narrow party interests and have a completely constructive, worthwhile, balanced debate on the substance and dilemmas. I think, sir. Søren Pind used the word paradoxes, which are present in foreign policy sometimes and which make it an exciting area, but also a difficult area when making difficult choices for Denmark. Thank you to the government rapporteurs, whom I thought helped to underline Turkey's positive role without in any way putting a finger on the problematic aspects of Turkey's behaviour in recent months. And thank you to the SF, who explained very precisely the dilemma in relation to PYD and the Kurdish question. Then there were, it might be said, two other voices in the debate. There was Enhedslisten, who is firmly convinced that we must put further pressure on Turkey. And what, as many have said, is the crucial question: what are we going to do? Two things were mentioned. We need to withdraw some NATO soldiers, in other words some Danish soldiers who are out there in Turkey in NATO. I therefore find it difficult to see the logic of that proposal. That would just mean that NATO would have to send in some other soldiers, and it would just impose an additional cost on other NATO allies without any significance to Turkey. This is a strange way of putting pressure on Turkey. Then there was the idea of bringing the case before the Court of Human Rights. I have to say that the lawyers of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have looked at this and, as the matter immediately stands, we do not see that any human rights that could be reported to the Court have been violated. So we don't think that's a viable path. Then we could go further and say: should we try diplomatic relations, drag the ambassador home, or what do I know? I don't really think Enhedslisten's attitude is that we should. At least it wasn't something we did when we had the drawing case going on. It was not something we did when Russia invaded Ukraine. That is why we must also ask ourselves whether it would be a wise move if we wanted to apprehend the alleged perpetrator and need Turkey's help there and when we want to influence Turkey in a more sensible direction. So what stands out is: what exactly is the pressure that Enhedslisten imagines that would actually be pressure beyond what the government has already done? I must also say that I am a little like Mr. Holger K. Nielsen sometimes finds it difficult to understand much, I wouldn't call it sectarian, but at least very focused approach to this very complex issue that Enhedslisten has, based on the Kurds. I have deep respect for the resistance fought by the Kurds in Kobani and for the fact that they have been able to defeat ISIL. It's a heroic fight. I also have great respect for what has been done in northern Iraq. On the whole, I believe that the Kurds must be allowed to live a peaceful and democratic life like any other group. But I also feel that because you are a Kurd, you are not necessarily a democrat. And because you're a Sunni or Shiamuslim, you're not necessarily an extremist. I have, at least in my time, met democratic and non-democratic forces with all ethnic or religious backgrounds, if I may say so. And the fact that it is only the Kurds that we must bet on, and only the Kurds who can ensure peace and democracy in Syria, I do not buy. I think that we should be careful not to focus so much on one population as being the only blissful one. What is really needed is that there is room for everyone and that the governments that we must have in both Iraq and Syria must be governments for both the Kurds and the Shias and the Sunni. Otherwise, it's never gonna work in any of those places. And that must be the continuing message on our part, both to the Sunni and to the Shia and to the Kurds, which also bears a great responsibility here. The second clue that has been made has been Mr. Søren Espersens. It was a very well thought-out speech, I think, which came from Mr. Søren Espersen today. I have to understand, sir. Søren Espersen, who is, of course, the co-author of the joint motion for a resolution, to the effect that he largely agrees with the concrete steps taken by the government and that he also agrees that it is difficult to do much more, but that an ambassador might have been withdrawn. I think, sir. Søren Espersen will admit that it probably wouldn't have made a revolution a difference either. As I said, I think that, in relation to the fact that we are not using it against Russia or against many other nations that have committed greater, in my view at least, crimes than the one we are talking about here, it would perhaps be a little out of proportion. But leave it alone. What's really Mr. Knox? Søren Espersen's appeal, which makes him draw parallels back to both the pre-war period and China, and I do not know what, is that I have publicly stated that there are limits to how far we should go. This is interesting because it really shows a difference between the policy of the Danish People's Party and that of the Radical Left and the government. Small-putr radical trauma I think it was called from Mr. Søren Espersen's page, and I'd like to work for it to get into the Nudan Dictionary next time new concepts and words need to be included. There were also references back to Peter Munch. That makes someone like me blush. Thank you very much for that. It's warming deep inside my heart. But Mr. Søren Espersen, in the most serious sense, that if you have a foreign policy that you think should be balanced between having a good and critical dialogue with a close ally on the one hand and, of course, to point out when you are really unhappy with something, then you say it out loud and you say it openly so that there is no doubt about it, then you should not tell the people about the balance, the foreign policy balance, and that the Danish people are in fact better off not telling about the paradoxes and dilemmas that are now in foreign policy. In any case, I very much disagree with Mr. Søren Espersen. I do not think it is a sign of weakness. I do not think it is the case that one is a small figure, that one dares to expose the dilemmas which are the essence of the whole foreign policy. And I do not think that Denmark will be less affected by actively engaging in a dialogue both with Turkey, with China and with all sorts of others than if you are behind a border boom and yell in a megaphone down to them instead. There is a difference between the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left here, and I am happy to stand by that. I am happy to discuss this, but I do not understand the fact that we should not openly talk about the considerations we have. Thank you for the debate and thank you for allowing us to bring together such a broad circle behind the proposal for adoption. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for this, although we can have a discussion about the style and shape. I think it sends a very strong signal, both to our soldiers and to all the other Danes who are making an effort in the area and to Iraq, to Syria and, above all, to Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128141833	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128141839	Thank you very much. I think it is very accurately described. I do not deny that there are dilemmas and difficult choices. Often it must be incredibly difficult to know how to act as Foreign Minister. In general, I think that I have also said that we have a Foreign Minister today who is actually doing a very good job. I'd like to say that. Then, of course, there are always beauty stains, and in my view there are in this situation. Now it's over and the bird has flown. We know that. But where the pressure on Turkey exactly stopped, there was where the Foreign Minister gave the famous interview where he said: we cannot do anything, Turkey is much bigger than us, we are very small, we cannot do anything. What are we gonna do? And by the way, we are more interested in Turkey than in Lars Hedegaard. The pressure on Turkey ended there. You could stop everything there, because Turkey has people in Copenhagen who read Berlingske and tell the government about it down there. Does the Foreign Minister not agree that in that second the pressure on Turkey was passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128141956	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128141957	Thank you very much for your kind remarks. I shall also be the first to acknowledge that nobody and certainly not me is infallible. I've made mistakes, too. That's what you do. But in this case, I'm not sure I think I made a mistake. It's because I don't think the pressure stopped there. Now I would say that it is always this way when you give interviews to the press that I am sorry that Berlingske did not also bring what I said all the way through, namely that we are delivering strong pressure, and we continue to do so, but we do not think it makes sense to interrupt diplomatic relations, which were the context in which my quote was made. I know it's not Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen's errand, but it was just to give the exact rendering. But I can vouch for the quote anyway. Since I have said this to Berlingske and, as I still think is a correct assessment, we have actually raised it with the new High Representative. We intend to go further under the auspices of the Council of Europe. The pressure hasn't stopped. My own assessment is that what concerns Turkey most in this context is probably the European Union's track, if that is the case, and what significance it can have for the EU's assessment of Turkey's reputation. The pressure continues unfettered. So I don't agree that the pressure is over. At least not from my side.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142120	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142121	No, but the Foreign Minister knows that he also says that I did not intend to interrupt diplomatic relations with Turkey, not at all. I am talking about a recall for consultation as a possible step at that time. After all, many of these things are best done in the ranks of diplomacy. What is actually left is an explanation from the Foreign Minister as to why they said that. Why did they say what they did to Berlingske in that interview? Why did you put the cards on the table and say, "We give up"? That's the impression you got. What I want an explanation for is why they did it. Why was it not said that I am not going to comment on this today, we are working on it or something, what you will certainly do. What was the reason for the whole of Denmark and Turkey and the rest of the world to be informed that we had now thrown the towel in the ring as far as Lars Hedegaard is concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142228	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142229	I didn't throw the towel in the ring. But when I speak, as I do to Berlingske, it is because a foreign minister both has, I think, a responsibility to represent the country externally, as well as he can now, and a role to play internally vis-à-vis the Folketing and the Danish people. It is my job to explain why I represent the country, as I do, why the government is taking the foreign policy steps that we are taking. Contrary to this, I believe that there is a real difference between Dansk Folkeparti and Mr. Søren Espersen, I do not think that I am best placed to defend Denmark's interests by standing and shouting to other countries when I think they are doing something wrong. I believe more in the melee, if I may say so, of going into a diplomatic space where you can have a critical dialogue and take the fight. It also means that sometimes one does not become so explicit or aggressive in one's diplomatic traits and does things that are out of proportion, because then one loses the opportunity to have the critical dialogue. I'll admit it. I do not think that is a small-putr radical trauma. I think this is an expression of due diligence and of conducting a real political foreign policy that promotes Danish values and what we believe in the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142353	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142355	Thank you. In other words, the Foreign Minister does not believe that the proposal from the Enhedslist to increase the pressure on the Turkish Government is correct. That is why I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister when it is time to increase the pressure. On Monday there was a meeting with the Turkish ambassador and there was nothing new in the matter. How many times do we have to meet with the Turkish ambassador without any news coming into the matter before the government thinks it is time to increase the pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142424	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142426	I mean, we're building quietly on the pressure we've already put. I mentioned this to the High Representative, who will take it further with Turkey. We have had it up in one committee in the Council of Europe and we are now considering, I understand, the Minister for Justice, taking it forward in the next committee. What is interesting is what it is exactly, Enhedslisten imagines we should increase the pressure beyond the tracks we have laid out and which are proportional to the problem we have. I understand that soldiers will be called back from NATO. I've explained why I don't think it makes sense. I have also explained that we do not consider that a human rights case can be raised in this account legally. What is it that Enhedslisten imagines the government should do to increase the pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142515	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142517	The Enhedslisten has made some proposals, and I think it should be a minimum that, when you have a situation where there is a convention against which an ally is criminal, you try it in a court of law. I think it should be a minimum that a military contribution was made by the Danish side to a government which is making a fool of Denmark. It may be that there are others who will do even more than that. It could be that there was a suggestion on how to increase the pressure in a different way. Enhedslisten is open for that discussion. The reality is that after putting pressure on the Foreign Minister, he must conclude that it has not helped, after which the Foreign Minister refuses to increase the pressure. Why is this so, and what will it take before we all begin to increase the pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142606	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142610	I am Minister for Foreign Affairs in Denmark, which is why I am set to represent Denmark's interests in the best way possible. Sometimes it presents some difficult choices and some real paradoxes, dilemmas, and one of them is that we need cooperation with Turkey: we need them in the coalition against ISIL, we need them to fight Assad, and we need them to create stability in the region, just as we need them to help us when we have Danish foreign fighters out there, or if we should get into the unfortunate situation that we got hostages again in Syria. That is why we need to have a partnership with Turkey. We also need, when Turkey behaves intolerablely, to make it absolutely clear that this seems unacceptable to us and to put pressure similar to that which, if I may say so, has been committed by Turkey in this case in relation to the Lars Hedegaard case and on which we are therefore putting quite a lot of pressure. If I had the slightest faith that doing any of the deeds that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen lists, will 1) solve the matter, 2) benefit Denmark in any way, I would do so. The fact is that I and all parties in the Danish Parliament, other than Enhedslisten, have the view that it is exactly the opposite: that our ability to solve the specific case and our ability to promote Denmark's interests will be damaged if we take unproportional steps in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142752	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then it's Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen, who rounds off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128142800	Thank you. It has to be concluded from today's debate that it was not the holding of the bullies, but the holding of the bad excuses. Some parties would have preferred us to have discussed Assad; some parties would have preferred us to have discussed the PKK; other parties would rather have discussed China. I think these are important debates, but seriously, you have chosen to ignore them. The majority of the parliament has chosen to stick its head in the sand, and it is difficult to see it as anything other than sending a signal to the Turkish Government that it can continue to fool Denmark. If anyone is in doubt, I would say quite clearly, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, that we of course think that the regime in China is oppressive, that we naturally want Assad to be overthrown and that the Enhedslisten of course supports a political and peaceful solution to the Kurdish question in Turkey and therefore believes that the stamp of terror of the PKK should be removed so that the Danish side can support the peace negotiations. Several of you have said that the excuse for not criticising Turkey's lack of support for the fight against the IS is that Turkey is making a great deal of effort for the refugees. I would recommend you to go to the border, to Kobani. There I was three weeks ago, visiting a refugee camp in the town of Suruc. The refugee camp is not run by the Turkish state. There are 4 000 refugees from Kobani who have not been able to get the help of the Turkish state, which is completely unaided in terms of medical care, food, medicine and tents. There are 130,000 Kurdish refugees from Kobani, from Singal, in Northern Iraq, in exactly the same situation. The Turkish Government is pursuing a sectarian policy, not just towards its own people, but towards the refugees who come to the country. There was a little boy who asked us if he could have their tents back in the refugee camp when they were going back to Kobani. It was a rather strange question, we thought, and we asked why he asked that question, because the situation was that the tent was totally bad. Water would come in when winter came, it would start to rain through it. So we asked him why. Why is it you want to bring your tent back to Kobani? The little boy replied that he would like to bring the tent home to Kobani because IS had destroyed their house. The reality is that the little boy probably never comes home to Kobani because the border is closed, the city is under siege, there can't come out reinforcements. Should Kobani be rescued, he cannot bring home the tent because the Turkish Government continues the siege and does not open the border. The situation is, of course, that at a time when a majority in the Folketing is constantly talking about the importance of helping in the neighbourhood, Turkey and the Turkish Government are working against the aid that refugees can be given in the neighbourhood, and are working against their being able to return home. There have been many bad excuses. From the Left it was thought that increasing pressure, but quite frankly, was unproportional, to increase pressure on a Turkish government which is making a fool of Denmark. On the part of the Socialists, it was thought that it would be strange to go to the Human Rights Court in Hedegaard, strange to go to the court in the world to test whether the Member States of the Council of Europe are complying with the conventions, that is to say, a convention which Turkey has just broken, because they have broken an agreement under the Council of Europe, where they should otherwise hand over the Danish citizen. The excuses have been very, very many. I would say that the Danish People's Party is breaking all records. It was a very, very strange experience to see that the Danish People's Party chose to use its speaking time to praise Denmark's relationship with the Islamist authoritarian Turkish government. I am sure that Turkish President Erdogan is very pleased with that praise, but I am quite sure that the Turkish Government will not regard it as a pressure from the Danish People's Party. After all, the situation is that the Kurds in Syria do not act sectarianly. If the Foreign Minister had made it difficult to meet with the three delegations which have been from the Syrian Kurdish territories, the Christian Arabs and the Kurds who have been from those areas and had spoken to them at the three meetings that have taken place in the last year, they would have been able to tell the Foreign Minister that in these areas, precisely, all the groups have been involved. I would like to call on the Foreign Minister and other parliamentary parties to show up next time delegations come from these areas, because I think it is absolutely crucial that, if we are to get rid of the Assad dictatorship, if we are to prevent it from becoming the extremists of the IS who are in charge of Syria in the future, we must support the people who are trying to create a diverse, future democratic Syria. The reality is that a majority chooses to bend their necks. I think it is sad that people choose to ignore Turkish support for IS, with the Turkish team Denmark for fools. There's been a lot of bad excuses. Now you have a few days before we have to vote on the final proposal, and I would urge you to put aside the bad excuses and decide to put pressure on the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143333	Thank you to Nikolaj Villumsen. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143344	Yes, it is actually more of a comment than it is a question. Because I would just like to say that, when we are being scolded because we are so incredibly irresponsible, I would agree with Holger K. Nielsen that, if we had meant something by having a proper debate on the proposal for adoption that has come, we should have sent it a little earlier. I didn't see it until last night at 9:00. 22.00, and then I did not think there was any particular reason to react to it. So I would just like to give the good advice that, if you want to have a serious debate on a proposal for adoption, in future, you should start a week earlier, I believe. So that's just the advice I wanted to give more than it was a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143425	Well, I think it's extraordinary. Not only does the Danish People's Party use its speaking time to praise the Islamist and authoritarian President Erdogan and his government, but it also uses its questions to Enhedslisten to reveal its own indifference to this important issue. It is true, of course, that we should have sent it before, but it is also true that in a Parliament we are busy, and we know that, of course, the task of all the rapporteurs is to try to get a majority together. If the Danish People's Party is genuinely interested in putting pressure on the Turkish Government, then it is too bad an excuse to have had no more time to think about than from yesterday at 3 p.m. 10:00 a.m. until today at 9:00 a.m. 1 p.m. when the debate started. If the Danish People's Party is to have longer reflection time, then I would urge the Danish People's Party to use the time from now until the vote is taken to think. Then you can discuss in your group whether you think it is wrong to put increased pressure on the Turkish Government and you can discuss it in the Danish People's Party's local electoral associations. I believe that in the Danish People's Party, if you ask your members, your constituents and your parliamentary group, you will come to the conclusion that it is a very good idea to put increased pressure on the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143537	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143542	I just want to say that the Enhedslisten will not learn and that you will not accept good advice; then we will know.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143550	But Enhedslisten always takes good advice, and I hope that Dansk Folkeparti does. My advice is that from now on, the Danish People's Party will discuss with its electorate whether or not to tolerate the Turkish Government making a fool of Denmark in the Lars Hedegaard case. I think it is an important debate to have taken with the Danish people, i.e. whether we should tolerate the Turkish Government breaking international agreements, refusing to answer simple questions and having absolutely no consequence whatsoever. Of course it has had a small consequence, but when that consequence has not helped, the Danish People's Party votes against increasing the pressure. I believe that in the Danish People's Party, if you listen to Enhedslisten's advice and talk to your constituents and your members, you will find that you should have voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143630	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. John Dyrby Paulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143634	Thank you. I think that calls for a single comment. When you hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Enhedslisten is completely clean, while the rest of us are some who simply do not want Denmark well. We will not put pressure on Turkey; we will actually do nothing; we are completely indifferent to what is happening in Syria and especially in the northern part of Syria, where the Enhedslisten has certain interests. Should we not make it quite clear that we all want to put pressure on Turkey and that we all want to continue to put that pressure on Turkey? Most of us do not think that the proposals that have come from the Enhedslisten will lead to any increased pressure on Turkey and certainly not lead to any solution at all. Don't do that cleanliness and keep polishing the gloria and saying that Enhedslisten will it all and that the rest of us don't want anything. Could we not just for once put out a hand and say that we all want something in this area, but that Enhedslisten's way is a little different from ours instead of standing on the platform pretending that the rest of us do not want anything in this matter? Honestly, it's not gonna stand to listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143734	This is funny, because we have the situation in which the government has chosen to put pressure on the Turkish Government on three points. Enhedslisten has said that is fine to do that it was time to do something. We didn't think that would be enough. Then it turned out not to be enough. Then it turned out that the pressure that had been put so far would not help. Then comes the Enhedslisten with a simple small proposal to increase the pressure on the Turkish Government. We have a few suggestions on how this can be done. I am open to other and better proposals. But to say that it's not something you can stand to listen to, I think it's more because you feel that it's a little annoying to put your neck on this case. Frankly, I think that speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143816	Sir. John Dyrby Paulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143818	After all, I recognise that the Enhedslisten has some proposals. I just don't think they're very good. What I'm arresting is not that Enhedslisten has raised this issue, but that Enhedslisten is trying to make it look like the rest of us have no interest in this. Then may I just remind Enhedslisten that if you are talking about fighting ISIL, we are actually doing something about it through the military operations we have set in motion while Enhedslisten voted no to send that fighter plane down there. So that's another reason why this is purely sorry that I'm saying it's game for the gallery, because when it comes down to it. When it really hurts, the Enhedslisten won't be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143853	After all, it is funny that the rapporteur says that we do not want to be there when it really hurts. I have no doubt that it really hurts when a Shia militia enters a Sunni Muslim village and starts taking all young men and slaughtering them. That is exactly what is so problematic. It was the policy under Maliki that created IS. And that is the policy which the new government unfortunately seems to be continuing. The new government seems to continue that policy with the support of Danish fighter planes. I think it's going to strengthen IS. I believe that IS must be combated, but I believe that it should be done by supporting the democratic forces. If the Socialists have good proposals on how pressure on the Turkish Government should be increased, which is different from the IS, then we could have discussed them today. Now the Social Democrats have chosen not to present them, but to criticise instead of just the proposals of the Enhedslisten. I think it is very unconstructive and I hope that we will think about and vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption when it comes to the vote in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128143950	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 2 December 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144009	The first rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Karsten Nonbo for the Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144027	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal we are going to be dealing with here as the last one today concerns an increase in the limit on the compulsory renewal of driving licences for persons aged between 70 and 75. It is driving licences for cars, motorbikes and mopeds, that is to say what is called category B. We now decide to increase the age limit for compulsory renewal to 75 years. That is quite good, because we can fortunately boast that those who are approaching that age, unlike 40-50 years ago or more, when you did not have a car, are more agile and in goose-eyes younger, and that is why the Left believes that there is no problem in raising the age limit to 75 years. In my view, it is not really the elderly who are the great danger in the traffic of a car because they know their limitations. Perhaps it is not always possible to say about young people that they know their limitations. A few other things that are included in the draft law are that the word contraption is technically changed to tachograph in the driving-rest-time regulations. At the same time, manufacturers of these devices are allowed to be authorized to install, repair and replace them. It's small stuff, but it's worth coming when we get the law. While I remember it, I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Tom Behnke, who, like the Left, supports this bill. Then we can say that it is certainly good that it will be better for the elderly here. Maybe it'd be better if it got good too. It must be understood that we have a little difficulty in seeing why we have to wait until 1 June next year with that particular part of the bill. Almost all the other points in this bill say that they can be adopted as soon as they have been in the Official Journal. They can come if we're fast. Then maybe they can come before Christmas if this law is passed before Christmas. I do not think there are many parties against it, but I can of course be wrong about that. So if it was on the left, it could go a little faster. We can say that this spring we have the 70th anniversary of freedom in the form of the end of World War II. We could also give freedom to 70-year-olds by introducing it before May and preferably around Christmas time. I think we should work on that. Is there really any reason for it to wait that long? Then perhaps it could be smart when we do that, to follow up the statistics a little intensively and ask: what does this mean? Perhaps we could put in an evaluation and ask whether this means improving or reducing road safety. You could put an evaluation into this part after 5 years. Then I will be absolutely sure that when we adopt this, we have the same phasing-out model, so that the limit for those who today take a driving licence and have to bring a medical certificate at 70 years of age is now raised to 75 years, and that they will not have to issue a medical certificate until 85 years of age and not, as today, 80 years old once a year. So we'd like to move it all five years. We must be sure of this in the context of the work of the committee. Otherwise, there is support from the Left and also from the Conservative People's Party for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144432	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialists, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144439	Thank you. Danish older people live longer and are much fresher than before. Nevertheless, the limit on the renewal of driving licences has not been changed since 1966. It is not reasonable for Danish elderly people to be regarded as risk drivers already as 70-year-olds, just as it is not fair for elderly people to have to pay for a medical check as early as the 70-year-olds, even if they are not a danger to traffic. Just over a year ago, we Social Democrats had the Minister for Justice and Health investigate the road safety consequences of changing the age limit. Together with the National Police, professionals have considered that raising the age limit for renewal of driving licences is justified, and that is why we are raising it from the current 70 years to 75 years. It is also against this background that we are discussing the bill here today. We Social Democrats attach great importance to road safety, which is why we think it is reasonable that there should be a professional medical check on our elderly people, but that the medical check, as described in the proposal, should be carried out later. There has been a desire from several quarters to completely abolish medical checks on the renewal of driving licences for older citizens. The decision to maintain the medical check is political. With the bill, we are making the legislation more fair. I do not wish to deny that further changes can be made at a later stage if we have the basis of experience expanded; if we have better methods of measuring whether there is a development in this area; but, first of all, I think that today we should rejoice on behalf of the very many Danish elderly people who have pushed the renewal of their driving licences for five years. We Social Democrats welcome this. We are open to the proposals of the Left, to see if it can enter into force earlier, if it can be done in relation to the practical circumstances. It has to be implemented in the municipalities, etc. But let's see if it can't be done any faster. In addition to the proposal on the renewal of driving licences, the draft law also contains a number of other amendments, among others. conditions relating to the recovery of driving rights, in which it is proposed, in particular, to adjust the rules of the Road Traffic Code on the confiscation of vehicles by means of alcohol or drug traffic. That is also something we think is very important. Overall, on this basis, I should like to say that we Socialists can support the proposal here and that we are delighted on behalf of the Danish elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144719	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144726	What is the medical assessment that Mrs Trine Bramsen finds in her report and in her comments on the draft law, which says that the age limit should be raised to 75 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144746	Well, what you have asked the Danish Health Authority to make an assessment of in cooperation with the Justice Department and the National Police is whether it has a road safety impact, that you get older. And there you have found very clear that it is not age that makes you a more insecure driver on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144809	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144811	Yes, but the report points out that, in terms of longer life expectancy and improved health, there is a very large difference between the population groups. That is one of the points made in the report and that, if you raise the age limit to 75 years, there is at least a group of people, namely those between 70 and 75 years, who may not be picked up. The report makes this very clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144844	But the professional assessment is also very clear that it is not age itself that makes you a worse driver on the roads. These may be other matters, and that is also why we Socialists believe that there should be a medical check, but that it should be later. It is not age itself that makes you a worse driver.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144906	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144911	I do not want to fail to thank and acknowledge the sympathy of the Social Democrats, because here we have to say that this is not something we should do, it is something we should not do, and it should be easier than doing something. That is why I am pleased that the Social Democrats will take a positive view of getting this thing started as soon as possible. So I think I just wanted to thank you nicely and sign and say good weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144940	Thank you. Then there are no further comments on Trine Brammsen May I comment?). Yeah, I'm sorry! Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128144948	Well, good weekend to the Left's rapporteur too. I think it is reasonable that this should enter into force as soon as possible. Of course, we have to deal with what can be done practically in relation to the fact that there are systems that can support it, but the sooner we get a clarification on this, the sooner it benefits the Danish elderly, and we can all be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145009	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145016	I would therefore like to join the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen. I would particularly like to welcome the fact that Mrs Trine Bramssen has now also seen the light and thinks this is a good idea. We have had a number of discussions on this in the past. This has been a wish from the Danish People's Party for several years, namely to push this age, so that you only have to renew your driving licence at 75 years. We live a little longer. Fortunately, we are getting healthier and healthier, some of us, and so is the fact that this seems to be medically sound. So we're gonna pop with the flag, but just like Mr. Simpson... Karsten Nonbo, I would like to ask: can we not make this come into force sooner? I think that would be very good. Many people would benefit from it. Like sir. Karsten Nonbo is also a little unclear about what happens after the 75 years. We would like that to be clarified when we move on to committee work, because I am a little unsure about that. For the other elements: There are among others. an element here that if you have crashed your motorcycle and are no longer able to drive a motorcycle, then you can recover your driving licence for a car. That makes sense, because apart from the tragedy that it may be to hurt a motorbike badly, it would also exclude him from being able to drive a car in the future. So that is a very good change there. It is also in relation to the recording equipment regulation that we are now looking at the possibility of extending the circle of workshops and installers to include motor vehicle manufacturers in relation to installation and approval. Then there's kind of the fourth part of the bill. I'm not a lawyer. I agree that it is a good thing that we will have better coherence, as there is, between the various provisions of the Road Traffic Code in relation to this mandatory confiscation of motor vehicles, for which the Danish People's Party has, moreover, been a very warm advocate, but I would urge the Minister to ensure that the committee might have a pixi version, so that we ordinary people, who do not have a legal exam in luggage, can also understand things, because after all, it is also the few people in Denmark who are lawyers, and they must understand this. So much for a pixi version which very clearly indicates when it is confiscated, I will certainly be happy, because then I can vote in favour of the proposal in good conscience in the end once I have understood it. So I would urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145305	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145310	I just want to hear about something. After all, the rapporteur was very enthusiastic about the draft law. Is the rapporteur not aware at all of any of the alarm bells which, after all, sound in the comments on the report? I am thinking of the fact that this clearly limits the possibilities of taking action against people who have a dubious consumption of medicines in relation to driving, or who suffer from diseases that actually mean that they should not drive a car, or the whole self-selection, they call it God help me in the report, which means that when they arrive at the 70th year people actually choose to stop because they do not really think they are able to do so. At least it will be postponed by five years. Are we not aware of this at all by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145402	I'd say I'm not worried about that. I believe that it is Section 54 of the Road Traffic Code that says that you must always be able to drive vehicles safely. This means that if you are heavily medicated for some reason it may be for a period of your life, or it may be because of a disease that you have received in your old age it is still an assessment whether you should drive a vehicle. It doesn't matter if you're 70 years old or 75 years old or 35 years old. I'm more worried about the people who may be taking a driver's license when they're 18, and then they won't need it until they're 42 years old, and then suddenly they have to drive a car on the roads. So we can easily build up some scenarios where we see problems in it. But this will help a lot of older people because you don't, I think, unnecessarily bother healthy young elderly people in 70 years of age to get up and pay for a medical certificate. We push it to 75 years. I think there's really good sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145457	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145459	It is very good to refer to the general regulations of the Road Traffic Code, but the only thing that is being done here is actually to move the limit from 70 years to 75 years. You still operate away with a fixed age limit, so I guess you still have the same problem. Now you just suddenly have an age group change is 5 years, where they either have no option, as I said before, just like to estimate by the 70 years that no, this seems to be no longer going, or that you now have to wait 5 years to take action if there is a dangerous drug consumption in relation to driving a car, or disease.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145540	I therefore believe that both doctors and, of course, we ourselves also have a responsibility for when we are going to drive and when we are not going to. But there are also people who, as 55-year-olds, have a driving ban imposed on the basis of some medical condition. We've had a lot of episodes where you, among other things... with the EU regulation in hand, a lot of truck drivers suddenly became unemployed because of some changes in EU rules. But that's how things come up. In isolation, however, we do not regard it as a problem to be moved from 70 years to 75 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145614	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Helge Vagn Jacobsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145624	We Danes live longer, and we are in good health a greater part of our lives. Therefore, Radical Left, it makes very good sense to look at issues relating to age. We have, for example. We think it makes sense also to look at when the compulsory medical examinations for drivers should start. The current rules actually date back to the 1950s and 1960s, and since then a lot has happened with the Danish 70-year-olds. That is why we have had some experts from the Danish Health Authority to look at the rules and we believe that it is perfectly justifiable to increase the age limit for compulsory medical examinations to 75 years. In fact, up to the 80, a health check every two years will only be mandatory. We are very pleased that in this way we can also make life a little easier for older drivers, without, in our opinion and also according to professional judgement, compromising road safety. In fact, we also believe that this is not the last time we have to deal with a proposal like this, because hopefully in the future we will be able to see that the elderly live longer and have better health. And should the subject come up again, we Radicals will also be interested to see whether this age limit should be moved further. The proposal contains a whole series of other small amendments, as several have explained. I do not want to go into them in detail, but I just want to end by saying that I think we should pay particular attention to the provisions that make people, for example. As a result of a handicap, motorbikes are no longer able to drive, for example by taking a driving licence for motorbikes. regular car. Finally, I should also like to respond to what Mrs Bramsen mentioned, namely the possibility of the earlier introduction of these rules. Of course, we are also in favour of this from the Radical Left. So, overall, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145831	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145837	But again, we live longer and have better health. Yes, there are some who live longer and there are some who have better health and there has been a positive development in life expectancy. But there are also some who have not followed here. These are all those with the worst education and the worst wages and the hardest work. What is wrong with maintaining a limit of 70 years? That really means that those with the high salaries and the good work that it does not so hard work will pay for a medical certificate in connection with a health check at the age of 70, but at the same time it ensures that those who have not followed are then caught at the age of 70, if I may say so. Now we have to wait for 75 years. This means that you get a group from 70 to 75 years of age which, so to speak, you have no control over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128145932	Fortunately, we now have a good health service in Denmark, and so I have full confidence that, when you can have a special drug consumption that could make it a problem to still drive a car, the individual has an ongoing consultation with his doctor and those who help him or her. It really makes me feel comfortable about it. The problem that was raised here is of course in itself, as the previous speaker said, a problem that you can have, whether you are 55 or 60 years old, so I have, in this way, full confidence that you have a regular dialogue with your doctor, if you have any particular health problems, and there is discussion about whether there might be a need for a health check.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150011	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150013	But if you then have a good health care system, then it really does mean, if you use it as an argument, that we do not need any age limit at all. Is that what we can expect the Radicals to be in favour of soon, namely that there should now be no age limit at all, everything is free because we have a good health service that seems to pick it up? But so far, at least for a very long time, we have had an age limit of 70 years, and we have considered this to be sensible, not least in the light of road safety. So I'm a little uncomfortable with that announcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150048	We from the Radical Left think that a very good balance has been found here with the 75 years in view of the health assessments that have been made and also in view of the general increase in life expectancy in Denmark and the improvement of health. So we think it's fine that this bill should set a limit of 75 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150110	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr. Karl H. Bornhøft from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150119	Thank you. I should like to start by stressing that I am speaking on behalf of our rapporteur, Anne Baastrup. After all, the draft law here contains a number of necessary amendments to the Road Traffic Code, which many of the other rapporteurs have described very carefully. I would therefore like to concentrate on the changed age limit, which specifically means that the time for an elderly person to undergo a compulsory medical examination is changed from 70 years to 75 years. I want to make it clear that the SF supports the bill, no doubt about it. This is a step forward for the many elderly, who are actually rather incomprehensible to this demand, because we must also be aware that the requirement for compulsory medical examination and the consequent payment of the elderly can be felt unreasonable. Danish Seniors have rejected the mandatory medical check very clearly in their hearing answer, and in SF we are concerned about how elements of their criticism of the age limit can be met. We would therefore like to ask in committee how this can be done and whether there are other elements that are better to use with the developments that we see in public health than, for example, in the case of human health. age. It could be worth an investigation. Then, for the discussion that has been going on about whether this could enter into force earlier, I can immediately say that if it is possible, we will get close to what is not normally talked about in the North Atlantic, namely enthusiasm. That'd be great. However, there should be no doubt that at the third reading we will vote in favour of the legislative proposal, because it is in any case an improvement that no one should risk not having.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150322	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150334	Thank you. I think there is a relevant question that is pressing here: what is really new under the sun? In fact, it is only nine months since we last dealt with the issue of the age limit for medical examinations in connection with the renewal of the driving licence, the 70-year limit. Yes, there has been a report on the basis of the committee's work which was initiated when the right-wing resolution was examined in February. The report is now being taken as an income for this bill to increase the age limit for health checks. But can you do that? The working party, which has been set up, concludes the summary and I quote: "It can be concluded that there is no scientific evidence of the actual effect of the compulsory medical examination when the licence holder reaches the age of 70. In addition, as I have also mentioned in some of my questions, reference is made to the increase in life expectancy and indications that a number of road safety diseases will occur later in life. However, it is also pointed out in the report that progress in this area is, however, significantly different in different groups of society, which is why the population cannot be seen in this context. Furthermore, mental or physical impairment can increase the risk of road accidents, and the risk of such impairments increases everything else equally, the older you get. At the same time, we maintain a fixed age limit, because we recognise that 'and I quote again: 'By setting such a fixed age limit, we ensure that driving licences are only renewed to persons who continue to have the necessary spiritual and bodily capacity and that those who do not want or are unable to realise that they are at risk to themselves or others cease to drive. When we compare this with the fact that improvements in life and health are significantly different in the different social groups, and these are very large groups which have simply not been followed, we feel that we are at the stage of gambling with road safety. At the same time, it can be compared here with the working party's report, which says 'and I quote once again: 'If the age limit for compulsory medical checks in connection with the renewal of driving licences is raised from the present 70 years, however, the possibility of taking action against drivers who are affected by diseases or who have a medical consumption which is a major risk to road safety is limited. In other words, the possibility of taking action will be limited. And the working party also states: 'The medical examination requirement may also lead to a certain amount of self-selection,' I think it is a strange expression, but it has therefore been referred to as 'older people who would otherwise have continued driving' in the context of the medical examination voluntarily choose not to apply for renewal of the driving licence, knowing that they might not be able to revalidate the licence, and, moreover, generally have a concrete reason to consider whether they are still physically able to drive. I continue to quote from the report: "If the fixed age limit for medical screening in connection with the renewal of driving licences is lifted, this will mean that the natural time for the individual's self-selection will be postponed to a later date and, as a rule, drivers who no longer meet the health requirements for driving vehicles which are currently being picked up at the age of 70 can retain the right to drive for a longer period with the risk of reduced road safety as a result. Well, I actually think it's said. The alarm bells should ring. The report refers in several places to road safety and that what we are doing is problematic in terms of road safety. The report cannot be taken as a basis for increasing the age limit for health checks, and that is actually stated in the report. For it is stated that the working party states that there is no evidence that there is a narrower medical scientific evidence to point to a particular new age limit. And then we can also read directly in the report that a decision to raise the age limit must be based on broader, including, to a large extent, political considerations. It is therefore quite frankly the gut feeling of our politicians. It is probably important here that all the older organisations have lobbied very much for a very long time to remove the age limit or at least set it up. Age discrimination has actually been called, and one can almost get the impression from the debate that it is a question of depriving them of their driving licences on +70. As you know, there is no such thing. It is simply a health check which ensures that people aged 70 and over are physically and mentally fit to drive a car. If it was to Enhedslisten, everyone with a driver's license should have checked his health regularly. Weakening and medications that are not compatible with driving can occur at all times of life, and you could appropriately have a health check when you have to have your driving licence renewed every 15 years. Some of the inquiries that have been made over time in the case point to the fact that the amount to be paid for a medical certificate is a problem. Apparently, it's swinging a lot. I have heard of amounts of between 250 and 800 DKK, but in the view of the Enhedslisten, this is an independent problem which could perhaps be solved by setting a standard standard rate for medical certificates for the renewal of driving licences. This is actually mentioned in the report of the working group, but it has not been brought forward in the legislative proposal. So I just have to say, finally, that we are voting against the bill because we are concerned about road safety and we are sorry that our last proposal for a regular health check, that is, every renewal of driving licences, has not been included in the work of the working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150906	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. No one has asked for brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mette Bock of the Liberal Alliance as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128150920	When my father-in-law, who was a doctor by the way, became a widower at the age of 73, he only took a few years, then he remarried a little younger woman who drove a very good car and therefore chose to hand in his driver's license completely voluntarily when he was 75 years old. Then it happened unfortunately that wife no. 2 died when my father-in-law was 83 years old, after which my father-in-law decided to recover his driving licence, went up to full driving test and got his driving licence again, so that he could also drive his vehicle for the next 10 years. My father-in-law was a doctor, as I said, and he was of the opinion that I can hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur actually share, namely that this with how old you are is one thing, that is, what it says on the birth certificate, but it is quite different how you feel as a human being. And some people should actually stop driving when they are 60, while others can continue until they are 100 years old. Therefore, my father-in-law was also of the opinion that, when it came to driving licences, the main decision-makers were in fact the immediate family. Then, of course, it is the general practitioner who comes to see a doctor anyway, but it is not something that can be put to the standard. However, we know that health among the elderly has generally improved. This does not mean that everyone is better, but the vast majority are better, they are fresher for longer, and we can all enjoy that. In the past, the Liberal Alliance has co-sponsored a resolution similar to this one, and we are positive about what we would very much like to see implemented, and we also support the comments made by the Left and the Socialists about having it implemented as quickly as possible. It's common sense, it's fair, these rules haven't been changed since the mid-1960s, and a lot has happened since then. By the way, I would just like to call for not everything to be regulated by law, because we also have family responsibilities for our loved ones and should call for a guard if we think it might now be time for that driving licence to be handed in, whether it is a family member who is 60 years old, 85 years old or 100 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151127	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151130	Yes, Mrs. Mette Bock won't get away that easily. Mrs Mette Bock states that it is very individual. And there are also those who are led by Mette Bock at the age of 60 who really should no longer be driving, and then there are those who can be 100 years old without that being a problem. I can almost conclude that the Liberal Alliance then agrees with the Enhedslisten that, in fact, throughout life, there should be regular health checks, and this could be done appropriately when you have to have your driving licence renewed every 15 years. Is it true that I can expect that the Liberal Alliance will actually support the Enhedslisten in that there must be an ongoing health check so that we can control whether some people at any age will have trouble being mentally and physically able to drive?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151227	Well, thank you very much for the question. But if Mr. Henning Hyllested thinks, he probably knows that we have a vertical disagreement with Mr. Henning Hyllested. Holly place in that recital. Sir. Hell's place seems to think that the state knows best in all situations and that we all need to be monitored from birth to death. In the Liberal Alliance, however, we believe that the individual person is very good and suitable to take care of his own life. We must offer medical examinations and health checks, but basically we cannot catch the people who should be caught in the eyes of the goose, no matter how many health checks you put in. For a weakening of the features that are essential for driving, can disappear overnight. And daily checks, I assume that even Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten is not in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151321	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151322	Oh, I just advocated every 15 years. There's a hell of a difference between it and everyday life. But it's a bit of a denial of it, what to say, primary medical function we have with our own doctors. It may be okay if the family can/should/would take care of it, but it is perhaps also very clever that one should simply be forced to visit one's own doctor every 15 years, who, after all, can come • probably then with a medical assessment of whether he is able to continue driving on the basis of physical impairments, mental impairments, drug consumption, what I know.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151404	So every 15 years! Anyone who thinks about will know that if you are only checked every 15 years, if it is a check you think it is necessary for us to increase road safety, it will catch neither one nor the other. I would also like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance, contrary to what Mr. Henning Hyllested may think, have very, very much confidence in the practitioners. In fact, we believe that the practitioners are very good at having their patients visit, assessing and intervening, and, although the occasion may be quite different, also raising the issue of this with a driving licence. But they're never gonna be able to catch everything, and that doesn't make a mandatory check every 15 years either, I'd say to Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151445	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128151457	Thank you for that, thank you for the debate. Let me take up some of the issues that have been raised, because I think that there are plenty of rapporteurs who have already reproduced the content of the draft law quite well. First of all to the question from all of you who support the proposal, whether we can allow it to enter into force earlier: I would like to look into that. There is some consideration to be given to those who issue driving licences. They must, of course, be able to keep up with the changed rules. But I just think we should check that out, because what's good is besides mr. Henning Hyllested's comments that, as far as I have been able to listen to it, we agree that older people in Denmark can do more than they could in the past. Remember that the rules that apply today have been in force since 1966, and so much has happened to the health of the Danes, with the Danes' vision, with the ability to drive a car when they reach a certain age, in the period from 1966 until today. That is what we are responding to. 70 years is an early age limit when you know 70-year-olds and know how much our +70-year-olds can do. Then some will probably think: Why then have a limit called 75 years? It's because we have to set the limit somewhere. As several of you have also mentioned, there are some disadvantages with age. It's just our belief that we can move the border. That is, of course, not least the answer to Mr. Henning Hyllested has been set up because, as the rapporteur knows, a working group has been set up with representatives from both the Danish Health Service, the Ministry of Justice and the National Police, who have just been brought up to look at the rules. What the working group came up with is that older drivers are not more dangerous in traffic, but that their accident picture differs from that of other age groups. This is because our older drivers typically drive more carefully. They do not take unnecessary risks in traffic. And as for the discussion, it is also for Enhedslisten, who hears that there are some people who should not have a driving licence at all, I was going to say, because we have drivers who, as soon as they have it between their hands, accidents and who drive in a way that is by no means permissible or recommendable. It can be said that the legislation must first of all take into account all those who can find out how to travel in traffic and impose restrictions on those who cannot. And there will always be someone who violates our traffic laws, unfortunately. I just find it hard to see with the knowledge we have today that it is primarily age-related. That being said, we have to set the limit somewhere. Now we are proposing to increase it from 70 years to 75 years, and I think it is natural that the Danish Parliament should follow this area as our average life expectancy increases and we can do more and more. It was specifically asked what the rules are going to look like. The idea is to say that within 75 years an applicant will be issued with a licence valid for 75 years; if the applicant is between 74 years and 80 years of age, the person concerned will be able to obtain a licence of two years' duration, then, as is the case today, a driving licence will be issued with one year's duration. I think that is also the answer to one of the other questions that were asked. Then there was also a specific question as to why we are going to change the rules for this with the ability to confiscate vehicles. It is simply if I understand that right that I am still a little new in the field of road traffic, also in relation to some of the rapporteurs here ■ because there is a lack of a provision. If the person who violates the law does so on several occasions, it is in relation to, so to speak, committing only an offence, too difficult to confiscate it. So it is a question of technically correcting a technical problem in the legislation. But a pixi version was asked, and we can at least get it written in an answer to the Folketing. Otherwise, I would say that with the way our society develops, I am not myself concerned about the prospect of +70-year-olds driving a car. You have and will always have a responsibility to feel your own way after you can get sick before you reach 70 or 75 years of age • what you can't do and what you can't do. And I think that now we should not base legislation on thinking that many of our older fellow citizens are pretty concerned about what they can and what they can't do. Perhaps I could give an example to the Danish People's Party on this with when it is that we can confiscate and on what basis. I have asked for a concrete example. So this is a thoughtful example: a person is convicted of two cases of drunk driving, in each case with a blood alcohol of less than 1.2. If each of the two conditions were judged individually, it would result in a conditional disclaimer. But since conditions are condemned at the same time, this leads to an unconditional disapproval of the right to drive. If, within five years, the person is guilty of a new situation leading to the unconditional disqualification of the driver's right, there will be no compulsory confiscation, as the rules are today. On the other hand, in accordance with the rules in force, compulsory confiscation would have to take place if the person had instead been convicted of a relationship of drunk driving which had only led to a conditional disqualification and the person had subsequently committed a new relationship of drunk driving within three years. So it is simply that the rules do not speak well enough. This is not a matter of material expansion, but only that it goes without saying that if someone goes stupid twice, it should not result in less punishment or sanctions. So this is a technical way of remedying that problem. I think I got the answer to most of the questions, but of course I make myself available.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152113	Thank you, Minister. There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152121	I would just like to know if the Minister is aware of the fact that I also quoted it in my rapporteur's speech, paragraph 3.3.6 of the comments, which states: "The Working Party states that there is no narrow, closer medical scientific evidence to point to a certain new age limit. It goes on to say that, of course, the conclusion is that a decision to raise the age limit must be based on broader considerations, including, to a large extent, political ones, of course, based on what is stated in the report, and that there is also an opinion from the Havari Commission on Road Traffic Accidents, which says that the system now in place actually works as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152208-2	The first part of that is true, and that is what we stand by. One can say that we do not have a paper which the Folketing can lean on, so to speak, and where we can say that this is the answer. So I think what's crucial in this case is that when we see how society develops and how our 70-year-olds evolve, it's of course seen with general glasses, because there will always be exceptions that confirm the rule and when we see that there is nothing that directly speaks against, yes, it's our assessment that we can do this properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152243	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152244	That is true, and I guess that is the real problem. And that is why the working party ends up concluding that it must be based on some political considerations. Because there's on one side and on the other side. I can, in the report and I have quoted some of the passages, find out things which, with just as much right and authority, say that it certainly does not imply that the age limit should be raised. So that is a political thought, what to say. It is on one side and on the other. I am just thinking that we have been very successful in reducing the number of accidents, both with dead people and with serious injuries, etc. We have that for some reason, and there are so many reasons for it. This is probably one of them. Why start touching something that actually works, as the Havari Commission says?
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152341	It is true that there are things that go in the right direction in terms of road safety and the number of accidents. But this set of rules has been in force since 1966, so it's probably not what has made things move in a more positive direction in recent years. I think that is something quite different, namely a greater awareness of it. And I wonder if the quality of the cars also plays a role. But I am happy to acknowledge that we are making a political choice here. We don't do it blindly, and we don't do it without something to lean on. But we are also doing so because we can see that our 70-year-olds are generally in a completely different constitution, fortunately, than they were at the time of the current set of rules, namely 1966.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152421	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Nonbo.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152423	I will also, as I did to Mrs Trine Bramsen, sign for the goodwill of the Minister for Justice, because as I see it, it will be easier. We should not introduce anything, we should not do anything. And that actually means that those who still need to renew their driving licence must have done so, but now they just don't have to come up with a medical certificate. In other words, the administrative work that is currently being done is being moved. I think it's being moved to a few smaller centres, and on that occasion you've got a little hump again. You can get that hump out of here very easily now. In other words, the sooner we get this introduced, the sooner you can get your driving licence renewed during this transitional period. Then also a positive receipt for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152513	Well, let's see if we can move the date forward. I shall return to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152519	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141128152535	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 2 December 2014, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the same website.
