ParlaMint-DK_20141104130001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130020	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130029	Thank you. The government has come a long way in 3 years, but we are not finished, and there is enough to address in the new parliamentary year: Last week the government presented a new Nature Plan Denmark, and this is the first time we have a unified, long-term plan for our common nature. Negotiations on next year's Finance Act are in full swing in the ministries. Last week it was agreed how we allocate a total of 857 million. kr. in the research reserve, and this is important for the jobs of the future and for our welfare. An agreement was also concluded on the rate pool; an agreement of 1.6 billion. kr. over 4 years to the most vulnerable people in our society. More than 100 million. kr. go to people with dementia, which is a very sad disease and which affects more and more people as we live longer. The government is acting to improve the everyday life of the people who need it most. We are also talking about a world on fire and millions fleeing from the civil war in Syria. Contrary to what one might get the impression of following the debate on the rules on asylum, it is of course the case that the rules for obtaining asylum so far have been the same as those of the previous government. Now we're tightening up the rules to get asylum. We will provide temporary protection for those people who are not individually persecuted and we will limit the opportunities for family reunification in the first year for those who are in this country on the new system. Tightenings will take some of the pressure on municipalities and asylum centres. I would like to sign off on the fact that the municipalities are fulfilling their important task of receiving the refugees. I know that there are some municipalities that think this is a major challenge, and of course the Minister for Social Affairs is in dialogue with KL about this. We take the problems seriously. That is why we have already put the asylum bill in consultation. We expect to be able to table the bill next week and we have chosen to bring forward the impact of the bill. We propose that the law should apply to applications for asylum made after the draft law has been tabled, and not only after its adoption. How is Denmark going to act when there are extraordinary numbers of refugees coming into the country? This is, of course, an important question. The government has an answer. Some say it's too lax, others think it's too tight. This could indicate that the government has found the right balance. After all, we have not seen a single serious proposal from the Left on this matter either. What is most strikingly left from the Left's alien initiative is that they want to relax the 24-year rule. Now I understand that the Left has agreed with itself to designate Danish Refugee Aid as the great sinner for the many refugees who are currently coming to Denmark. Last week, I think it was the government that was the great sinner. I wonder who it will be next week! Perhaps the Left finally realizes that it also affects Denmark what is happening in the world; that historically many are on the run. One can only hope that it also affects the Left. But the bottom line for the rest of us is that we do not know what the Left wants in this area. The Left does not have a single proposal to tighten the rules in order to obtain asylum in Denmark, and I therefore hope that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, after long hesitation, can confirm that the Left intends to vote for the government's austerity. I look forward to discussing that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130446	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory statement. We now move on to the questions from the party leaders. I repeat that in the first round the questioner and the Prime Minister have both up to two minutes' speaking time and then follow two rounds, each having one minute's speaking time. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen as the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130506	Thank you. That's exciting. I just thought there was some confusion in which the Prime Minister now spoke about government policy, but then it ended up as usual, namely with some questions about Left politics, and thank you for your interest. And I would really like to return that, because it is a question to the Prime Minister, so I would like to ask a number of questions about government policy in general. After all, the government is made up of two parties, and I have observed since the summer break that there are differences or nuances at the end of the day, or whatever word you are going to use. After all, one theme is what the Prime Minister himself takes up, namely tightening; it was tightening and it was not tightening. In today's Berlingske Tidende we can then read that one could have tightened more. Well, there's some confusion. We would very much like to be involved in tightening the rules, but we would also very much like to help roll back the 31 concessions made by the government in the field of foreigners. After all, it remains that we will enter into dialogue. I suggested at the opening debate that this should be dealt with, but I know we have not been called to any meetings. It would be exciting to find out who is most right then whether it was the then Minister of Justice or it is the Prime Minister's assessment of whether, within the conventions, more could be tightened than the government has proposed and for which we have not yet seen a proposal. But we do have a government, and it is not a goal, I have to understand, and that is why it is interesting to hear where it is going and let us take the benefit area. I noted that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior said at his party's annual meeting: four years on daily allowances is too much, and the reform itself I think is right and fair. This contrasts somewhat with the announcement made by the Prime Minister at the Social Democratic Congress, i.e. that it is the unemployment benefit reform that is wrong with it. That is why I would really like now, when we have an SR government I also have the expectation that it will want to be government after the next elections and that one will go to elections together, but it may be that I am wrong to ask whether the Prime Minister here today can explain what the government's policy is in this area after an election, if S and R continue government cooperation. Does the unemployment benefit reform pass? Or do we need a new one?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130710	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130711	It was very good from the sea, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen came with this: asylum policy and everything else. I didn't really get an answer to what I was asking, but maybe I'll get it later in the séance here. But I would like to discuss the daily allowance with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. After all, we have an unemployment benefit reform that we inherited from the previous government. It was sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who invented it a late night hour when the shorter benefit period was brutally phased in, and we others have been trying to make this right ever since. We have done this by providing temporary benefits and by providing services to people so that they would not suffer from falling out of this brutally phased-in benefit period, and Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is on target. We want a different benefit system, and that is why we have set up a benefit committee to look at this whole problem area, which will look at how many people fall out and use up their benefit rights, which will look at whether the benefit system we have provides the necessary flexibility, but which, of course, must do so within the financial framework that we have. We do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past, where a late evening hour is found to change the daily allowance system; on the contrary, we have set up a commission and we will listen carefully to what the Commission has of thoughts and ideas before we change the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130840	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130842	Yes, we are probably not getting much closer here today; there is no common S-R answer to that question, so let us move on to another point. Last week, the Minister for Climate and Energy advocated the construction of 1,500 new offshore wind turbines by Denmark, which corresponds to about one per day from now on and for a number of years to come. It must be government policy, one thinks so inevitably, when the Minister for Climate and Energy says so. He also advocated that we phase out coal five years earlier than planned, until we can hear that the rapporteur for the Prime Minister's own party, Jens Joel, says, and now I quote from the DR-News: "This is a message from the radical minister. In the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, we have not determined how to ensure both the green transition and our competitiveness. It just makes me ask at this point: what is the government's policy? Well, I'm not asking what the Radical Left's policy is and what the policy of social democracy is, but what is government policy? Is it the government's policy expressed by the Minister for Climate and Energy, or is it rather the government's policy expressed by the Socialist rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130956	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104130959	Well, now it's sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's right to jump from one point to the next, but I'd still like to finish this with the cash benefits, because I actually think so, too, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen owes some answers. We have done everything we could to repair the damage caused by the unemployment benefit reform adopted by the Left and the Danish People's Party before the elections. There were far too many who fell out of the system, too many who were in a very difficult situation. That's why the government has spent over 3 billion dollars. kr. to ensure that there is support for the people who with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's reform would have come to an end and for some it would not have had any support at all. So we have spent a great deal of time, a great deal of energy and a great deal of money on repairing the damage caused by the unemployment benefit reform that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl conducted before the elections. There's something I'm still wondering about. We have agreed that we should have a daily subsistence commission and we will look at this after the elections, but what does the Left want? What are the Left and opposition unemployment insurance policies? We know nothing about that at this time. After all, the Danish People's Party has had all possible views on this, and the Left has some views that nothing should change. What exactly is the opposition's position on this whole issue? I regret that I was unable to address the issue of climate change; I hope I can have the opportunity to do so afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131122	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131123	Well, I guess that's gonna get a little rough, 'cause I was gonna move on. The whole concept behind this is questions to the Prime Minister. I would very much like to put myself in a position where I can answer questions, but that cannot be today. In other words, that would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I have not received an answer to what is really government policy here. So, we have a radical climate and energy minister who wants to build an offshore wind turbine every day from now until 2050, and we have a Socialist rapporteur who says that it is not the policy of the Social Democrat Party. What is government policy? There will be an election campaign, and then we can talk about what we want after the elections, but right now we have the government we have. I'm just trying to figure out what it means. We cannot then be told that on this question. So let's move on to the alien area. A vote on the Radical Left is a vote against the 24-year rule and the attachment requirement, says the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. And then the Minister for Industry says that the 24-year rule and the attachment requirement are fixed, and when asked whether it is only during this parliamentary term, he answers: No, it is firm; we will not change our view of it, and there are limits to how many we can go to this country and integrate; that will be the case. It makes me ask in all silence this question about immigration policy: what is government policy now, and what is that policy, the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131246	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131248	I think that we should all read the Rules of Procedure again, because I do not think there is anything to prevent Mr Giscard d'Estaing from doing so. Lars Løkke Rasmussen answers questions and tells about Left policy during Question Time. In general, there is nothing to prevent the Left from telling about its policy. I think there are a lot of people who would like a long-term economic plan from the Left. Many would like to know what the tax policy of the Left is. Foreign policy could also be exciting to learn about. So there are so many things we would like to know about the policy of the Left, and I do not think anyone wants to prevent Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in using his speaking time here in Parliament to tell about the policy of the Left. We just don't know much. There are two questions here. There we go with climate policy. I really think it is quite simple. After all, we have decided on the government's climate and energy policy in our government base, we have EU decisions that organise our policy, and then we also have a common objective together with other parties here in the Folketing. One of the things that is important to us is that we discuss this here in our conciliation circle and find the right way forward, also in relation to the expansion of our wind energy. And when we have to set new targets, for example. The period after 2020, we will, of course, table a resolution for the energy conciliation circle and there find the best solutions. I think that when we are going to build on wind in the future, we must do so in a way that has broad support here in the Danish Parliament, so that we ensure the right balance between meeting our climate objectives and taking account of jobs, and we can do so by discussing it broadly here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131422	Then we'll go to the second round with mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131428	Thank you. Well, I used the opening debate to explain the policy of the Left. I put out five point marks. It was, moreover, somewhat in contrast to the Prime Minister's speech on that day, which on that occasion was also primarily concerned with asking about the policy of the Left. And that is why I think today was actually a good opportunity to find out: what exactly is the government's policy? And that is not the policy of the Prime Minister and of some other ministers, but the policy of the government. It is a little thought-provoking that when we have a responsible minister who is talking about 1,500 offshore wind turbines, we cannot get the Prime Minister to say whether she is in favour of that view or not. So it floats in the wind, it blows in the wind, and of course it is good to have something blown in the wind if you are in favour of wind power. I can just say at the expense of the Left that we are not in favour of building an offshore windmill every day from now on until 2050. Another question is whether to stay in the field of foreigners. I noted that Mrs Zenia Stamp was out making herself a spokeswoman in order to abolish the concept of tolerated stay; she wanted to give people on tolerated residence the opportunity to live and work outside the asylum centres. Because, as she said, and now I quote, they have endured their punishment, but for some reason the expulsion cannot be carried out, and in the meantime we must commit ourselves to treating them fairly and fairly and not to giving them extra punishment. And then she referred to, and now I quote again: it is not a dignified life to sit in an asylum centre without the possibility of creating a future. It was then shot down by the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Morten Bødskov. And I also understand that the new Minister for Justice, who has signed up to the list of Justice Ministers, has the view that she believes that the rules should be tightened up. She has made herself a spokeswoman for a consideration whether people on tolerated residence might have to wear electronic anklet. That is why it is relevant and relevant to ask: what is the government's policy in relation to people who are at home? Should we tolerate them and put an anklet on them, or should we, as it were, integrate them and give them wider opportunities, as the Radical Left proposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131649	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131651	So, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen believes that the five pointers presented are sufficient to describe the policy of the Left. What is the tax policy of the Left? Do you want to do something about the top tax? Will the inheritance tax be changed? Will the situation of the oil companies be changed? There are plenty of questions hovering in the wind in relation to the tax policy of the Left. I would like to ask in the Confederal Group of the European United Left what the tax policy of the Left really is. There is no answer. What is the tax policy of the Left? One could just say a few words about what is the foundation of the Left's tax policy. Nobody knows. I would just like to say, when you say that five pointers represent an explanation of your policy, that I do not think it does. That is why I do not think we should expect to meet me or anyone else in the future without even trying to get a minimum of answers to what might be the policy of the Left. In relation to what is being asked about the tolerated stay, I would say that, unfortunately, I do not think we can live without something called tolerated residence, because there are people in this country who should not be here and who have done something criminal either in the country they come from or in Denmark and who we find difficult to send out to another country, either because they are not going to receive them there or because they are not nationals of another country. And in this way, there will be citizens who are here on tolerated residence. We don't think that's very good. We would rather get rid of them, but in certain situations it is very difficult. That is the way it is under this government, and so it was under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131831	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104131832	Now the question did not arise as to whether there was anything to be called a tolerated stay. After all, it was on what conditions we give people on tolerated stays, and there is a difference between terms and criteria to be on tolerated stays. I also say this in a comment that the Prime Minister keeps touring around with the fact that no rules have been changed because the conditions for obtaining asylum are the same. Yeah, yeah, yeah! The criteria for obtaining asylum are the same, but the conditions on which asylum is granted have changed under this government qua the facilitations provided by abolishing start-up aid, making it more economically attractive by creating the opportunity to live and work outside the centres etc. But here is the answer to whether ankle chains should be applied or whether people on toy accommodation, as the Radicals say, should really be integrated, including into the wind. What is the government's policy, I am not getting a clear answer to. But then let us try one last theme, namely in relation to the reservation of law, which the Prime Minister and I agree to be replaced by an option model, and that is where I see the Radicals in a former SF, Mrs Ida Auken, out to advocate the creation of a common European refugee and asylum policy, and one must understand that it should then be part of Denmark. To that, Morten Bødskov says in this context, not in his capacity as former Minister of Justice, but in his present capacity, and I quote: it must stand at the expense of the Radicals themselves. The Socialists are not helping us to relax our robust foreign policy by the back door of Brussels. I should also like to ask: is it the Radicals who have to listen to what is the position of the government, or is it in this context, Mr President? Morten Bødskov, you have to listen to?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132011	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132014	Now, look, I'm gonna be a little happy, because we've now got an admission from the Left. It came a little reluctantly, but it was said: yes, yes, well, the rules for obtaining asylum in Denmark have not changed. And I am very pleased about that, because if you have heard the debate and also the political rapporteur in the Left over recent times, you might get the impression that the rules for obtaining asylum in Denmark have changed, and they are not. The rules for obtaining asylum are exactly the same today as they were under the previous government, and what happens now, if we can get the majority to do so, is that we tighten those rules. But I am incredibly pleased that we have now been told by the President of the Left that the rules have not been changed. I'll take that with me. It is very rare to get such fine and clear answers in this Chamber. So thank you for that. In relation to the legal reservation, we are currently in a discussion on how we can transform the legal reservation into an option in relation to being able to participate in the things Denmark wants to be part of. This is primarily about Europol, but there may also be other legal acts that are essential. It is also a question of choosing for and choosing from some things. I actually imagine that all the things that concern foreign policy, which we want to have at home, should not be chosen, but that there should also be a right of veto for those involved in these negotiations, so that we can jointly identify the legal acts for which we wish to choose. But we will have to negotiate all this when we meet, and I look forward to continuing our talks with Mr Seligman. Lars Løkke Rasmussen on this question. But of course it has to be the case that when you make an opt-in scheme, you also agree on what it is you have to choose for in an opt-in scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132202	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132203	I would like to end in the corner of roses, and I would also like to thank the Prime Minister here for a clear answer. For I must understand that on this point the statements of the Radical Left are simply poured down the board, as expressed by Mrs Ida Auken. I choose to understand that it stands at the expense of the Radicals themselves. And then it is to be hoped that this is a point where it is the Social Democratic Party that gets through in the government, whether it is before or after the elections. This leads me to conclude by asking about the timing and the warning for the next year's time. Maybe the PM thinks it's premature, but then the PM's just gonna have to tell me. Because I have mentioned some things here where it is quite clear that the Social Democrats and the Radicals think something quite different. And that actually leads me to ask in summary: when that day comes, will the government go to elections to be re-elected as a government? And if yes, then it can be expected that the government, as a government, that is, the two parties it is made up of, will come up with joint answers to these questions about unemployment benefit reform, future expansion of wind turbines, attachment requirements, conditions of tolerated residence etc.? I also ask, of course, because there is this vivid interest in what my party thinks and what the sum of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance mean. And I don't even ask very close questions. Well, I'm not even asking where the agreement between the Prime Minister's party and the Enhedslisten is to be found. I'm just asking about the government. Will the government go to elections as government and will the government by then, for example? give a precise estimate of how those 60 cents per. 100 kroner, which one wants to spend more than the rest of us, must be disposed of?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132350	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132352	Well, that's the way it is, and I think so too, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen knows that although you are in government, you do not agree on everything. You have not merged into one large party, but are still different parties. But, of course, the government has clear positions. I was asked before what the government's policy on foreigners is, and the government's policy on foreigners is the one we have implemented and which works right now in Denmark. What is the government's climate and energy policy? That is what we have achieved. What is our green policy? Yeah, we just presented a nature plan. What is our tax policy? This is what we have done together with the Left, by the way. So there is no problem in understanding government policy. That is what we are implementing in the Danish Parliament here and now, and that is what we have been implementing in the last three years. These are the proposals we have put forward. So there's nothing hard about it. The government intends to go to the polls to be re-elected, and we hope the voters will have that. I would like to arrest the fact that it would be wrong for the Left to answer what their policy is. Is it really wrong for the rest of us to ask for a plan for what the tax policy of the Left really is? What does the Left want in relation to the treasure? Is it wrong that the Left should present a plan for how zero growth works year after year? Is it really too much to ask that Denmark's largest party should present a plan for how their policy will work year by year? I find that difficult to see, and I also hope the voters feel the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132515	Then this round is over. Thank you, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl as the leader of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132522	Thank you for that, President. After all, I am one of those who has really looked forward to this and looked forward to getting started again on questions. I think it's all the way back to May or something like that since we had a question hour last. It's been an infinitely long time. That may be the case, also because there is so much I would like to show myself constructive in relation to. I have occasion to do so because something has happened over the last few months. When we were standing here before the summer, I believe that we had a disagreement, the government parties and the Danish People's Party, in relation to this, about whether the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark meant something, whether it could be too many, whether we should do something about the fact that it was a lot of people then too, but now I understand that the pressure that has come to the end of the last few months has meant that the government now agrees with the Danish People's Party that this issue of the number of asylum seekers actually matters and that it can be too many that come on too little time, and then you have to deal with it. Then we can have different assessments of what to do and what is too high, but that we basically have an agreement here, also about whether the rules we have actually matter in relation to how many come here. After all, it's the government's Minister of Justice who has come up with this concept of asylum shopping. We have been advocating for a long time that asylum shopping is taking place around Europe, where to land and seek asylum. The government has now acknowledged this, and that is why it is also about changing the rules in Denmark, making it less attractive to come to Denmark, because then there will be fewer, the logic of the government must also be. I'd like to sign for that, too, and I think that's very good. What is then crucial is, of course, what we can do, how far we can go. What the Prime Minister said in mid-October when she dealt with these austerity measures or these changes that come, was that we did what we could in Denmark, so we did what we could do within our convention obligations. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: was the Prime Minister wrong when she said in mid-October that we went as far as we could in relation to the Convention provisions? Is it not true that if we want it politically, we can go further, so we can do what I think very many Danes would like, namely ensure that there are fewer people coming to Denmark, so that those who come can take care of, but that most should be helped in their vicinity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132735	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132738	First of all, to the question we have been asked that it should not mean anything, how many people come to Denmark, say: Well, of course it does. I think that if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl asked that question to the former justice ministers, both Mr. Morten Bødskov and Mrs Karen Hækkerup, and also the current Minister of Justice, would get exactly the same answer. Of course it matters how many people come to Denmark. Of course, when there are a lot of people who are currently doing so, it puts extraordinary pressure on the asylum centres and in the municipalities to meet that challenge. And I can't imagine anyone at any point would have said to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that it does not matter how many people come to Denmark as asylum seekers. Because it isn't. That is also why the government has proposed a tightening in relation to some of those coming to Denmark. For there are two different kinds: there are those who come as individually persecuted, and then those who are not individually persecuted. Different sets of rules apply to these two groups, and we have now tightened in a way that we think is reasonable and which we think is humane and politically acceptable, while, of course, keeping within the conventions that we are bound by. These are the constraints we have put forward now; we would like to see them addressed, and of course we also hope that the Danish People's Party will vote in favour of them when we take them in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132901	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104132903	I am only very pleased that we are getting confirmation and emphasised over and over again that the number means something, in other words, in relation to how many Denmark can accept. I just think that's really good, and we shouldn't fight about that at all. What I asked was whether it was true what the Prime Minister said about now, with the changes that are coming, going as far as possible in relation to the conventions, or whether we can go further if we want politically. Because we always get our noses ripped off, that if we want something in the area of asylum, if we want to tighten the rules, for example. in relation to family reunification, we break courage or get close to or on the edge of conventions; or whatever you use to say. That is why it is interesting to know whether the government has actually gone as far as it can, within the conventions, or whether a political assessment has been made which means that one does not go as far as one must. The Prime Minister says in October, and I quote: we have done what we can within the conventions. And I quote further: this is what we can do if, at the same time, we are to comply with the rules and conventions that Denmark must comply with. That's what the Prime Minister said. So I just want to know, is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133003	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133004	There are international rules in this area. We have always sought to remain within international rules, and that is why we have put forward a tightening up which we believe to be within international rules and which, moreover, we believe to be fair and acceptable. I am not going to comment on whether or not we can go further. We have put forward some rules which we believe are consistent with the rules that we would like to keep within and which, moreover, we consider politically acceptable to the people involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133033	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133036	I don't have to deal with whether or not we can move on. Well, that's what the PM did. Well, we're talking about a quote from the Berlingske Tidende today. I think the Prime Minister is certainly well briefed on this by his talented officials. On the question of whether further action should be taken when more people come to Denmark, because the number really means something that we agree on, I have been informed at the beginning of the Question Time that the Prime Minister has been quoted as saying in October that we have done what we can within the conventions. This is what you can do if you have to comply with the rules and conventions that Denmark has to comply with. I can't read it any other than the Prime Minister here saying that we've gone as far as we can. Then I ask the Prime Minister: is that correct, is the Prime Minister on the right track here? Or is she really saying something that is not true because we can go further, as Germany, for example, does, but politically the government has just not wanted to go so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133132	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133133	Of course it is a political assessment, which proposal we put forward in the Folketing. We have to stay within the rules. We certainly think we do. There are two different rules, depending on whether you are individually persecuted or not, and it has been important for us all the way through to be sure that we stick to the rules. In addition to that, however, it is also a political assessment of what you would like through the Danish Parliament, and we believe that what we have presented is both proper and reasonable, and would like to stand up for it. And we hope the Danish People's Party will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133205	Thanks to Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr as head of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133211	Norway has recognised Palestine as an independent state, and Sweden has just chosen to recognise Palestine with the newly elected Swedish Government. We are now up to nine EU countries that have recognised Palestine as an independent state, but Denmark is still hesitant. A Danish recognition of Palestine would otherwise be quite an important backlash for the Palestinians and probably also press the parties to the negotiating table. So far, the reason given by Denmark and the Danish Government has been that we do not want to go alone with recognition. But now we are up to nine EU countries that recognise Palestine as an independent state. The newly appointed Social Democratic Minister for Foreign Affairs in Sweden, Margot Wallström, justifies the Swedish decision by saying: "This is an important step which confirms the Palestinians' right to self-determination. She points out that the recognition of a Palestinian state will help to enable Israelis and Palestinians to live in peaceful coexistence. And that is an important and rather courageous political signal from the Swedish Government, because if we are ever to ensure lasting peace between Palestine and Israel, the parties must be treated equally. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: where is it that the newly appointed Foreign Minister in Sweden, Margot Wallström, and the Socialist-led government in Sweden are wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133335	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133337	I am not going to say that I am quite sure, but I do not believe that Norway has recognised Palestine. I was with the Norwegian Prime Minister last week, and I do not think they have. But let's just leave it alone. The Swedes have recognised Palestine, and they have done so here recently. I have also had the opportunity to discuss this with the Swedish Prime Minister, and the bottom line here is that we agree on the objectives. We want a two-state solution and we want a negotiated solution to the conflict. And, of course, as soon as there is a two-state solution, we are ready to recognise Palestine. However, as things stand now, the government finds it very difficult to see that we should come closer to a two-state solution and, moreover, peaceful conditions in the region by recognising Palestine. So we're not going to do that. It also comes from the government base, with which the SF, as you know, was involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133436	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133437	Yes, Norway recognized Palestine when Stoltenberg was in government in Norway. So, yes, Norway is on that track, and so is Sweden. Now it is Denmark that lags behind our Nordic colleagues. I understand from the Prime Minister that we agree on the ultimate goal. That is also what we had written into the government base. But when you move in the Nordic region, and not least Sweden moves, a very significant and courageous step, I would just like to ask: I understand from the Prime Minister that she wants to go there, but that she does not want to take any steps, so where is it in the current process that we can see there is progress that matters to the so-called peace process in the Middle East? What are the steps that are being taken right now, without recognition, and which mean that we will achieve lasting peace in the Middle East?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133525	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133526	After all, when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr argues that there are so many states that have recognised Palestine, I could ask the question: how does that help in relation to a two-state solution? Not much. There are many things that need to be settled in relation to a two-state solution. For example, you have... a terrorist organisation such as Hamas, which must refuse to use weapons in relation to Israel and which must recognise Israel as a state. So there are several things that need to be done in order to get a two-state solution. There is an Israel which must be much more reluctant to settle than they are at present. So that is many more steps than simply recognising Palestine and thinking that this is the way to a two-state solution. I agree with the Swedes on the target. I agree that we need a two-state solution, but at the moment I do not agree with the funds and therefore the government does not intend to recognise Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133623	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133625	I believe that this summer's very bloody conflict has at least shaken us in the SF, but I also believe that the international community has become aware that something more needs to be done. We can't wait and sit on our hands. I also believe that this is one of the reasons why Sweden is taking this step, and I believe that the government should follow suit. We simply need to use all diplomatic means to push Israel and Palestine to the negotiating table. We need to show Israel very clearly that patience is also running out for the settlements they are in the process of. And then we must revitalize the peace negotiations. One element could be to look at suspending the EU trade agreement with Israel, because Israel by no means fulfils the part of the free trade agreement on human rights. So I would like to ask: will the Prime Minister be involved in that step when we do not want to recognise Palestine?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133718	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133720	I think it is very important to remember in this discussion that no one disagrees with us having a two-state solution. Nor does anyone disagree with that, at least I do not think so, and we have been making it clear for a long time that Israeli settlements are illegal and we believe they are contrary to international law. So all that has to be said, and our Foreign Minister is also doing so right now in Israel. So all these things have to be on the table. However, I am not convinced that recognising Palestine will be the right way to solve this challenge. That is why I can easily see the sympathy of discussing it here and having that view, but what I am concerned with is really being able to create a two-state solution that holds in reality, in fact, to be able to bring peace to the region, and there I am not convinced that the recognition of Palestine is the right lead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133817	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen as leader of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104133826	That was simply not an answer, Madam Prime Minister. For it was asked: should Denmark work for the suspension of the trade agreement with Israel as long as Israel does not comply with their part of the agreement, namely respect for human rights? And Israel does not. I would really like an answer to that. But what I came up here to ask you was about cash benefits. Because we are about to round 50,000 people who have lost their right to unemployment benefits as a result of the right's unemployment benefit reform, a reform, Mr. As you know, Kristian Thulesen Dahl came up with and received Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mrs Margrethe Vestager. These many people aren't just a number. It is really living people who have real families and, for many, they are in a very, very unhappy situation. Some have fallen on significantly lower benefits, others have no income at all. In other words, it is clear that the right-wing welfare reform has failed completely and that it has had a great many victims. These are people and families that I do not think we can be familiar with failing. Both the prime minister and the government say they'll wait for the benefit commission. But the unemployed who are getting out of the benefit system now cannot pay rent with a commission. In addition, it is not alone, if I may say so, about the people who fall out of the system. It is about the security of all employees in Denmark, because security is being undermined for employees when the fear of losing the job increases. It does, of course, when you have created a benefit system which, unfortunately, is as hollow as it is. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: why does the Government reject the Enhedslisten's proposal to make it easier to earn the right to daily allowance? It is a proposal that is being discussed here in Parliament a little later today. Isn't it obvious to everyone that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's loss of benefits has had severe consequences which deserve to be corrected, not at some point when a commission arrives at something, but now?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134049	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134051	I just have to go back to Palestine and the settlements because I was asked about it. In other words, there are more prerequisites for a two-state solution, and I really think that is what we are all asking for. First of all, it must be made clear to Israel that Israeli settlements are illegal and that they are contrary to international law and that they constitute an obstacle to peace. That is also why we have been working to label the products from the settlements. I think that is the right way to say that we are not satisfied with the settlement policy that Israel has. On the other hand, and I think that is perhaps overlooked both by the SF and the Enhedslisten, we have Hamas, which is a terrorist organisation and which acts militarily, not politically, and before they write off the use of violence against Israel and recognise that Israel is a state, then it will be very difficult to achieve lasting peace in the region. It is just to say that unfortunately there are no easy answers in this conflict. We are all concerned with a two-state solution, and I do not believe that the answer to recognising Palestine is right at this stage. Then I have very little time for the daily allowance, and I should like to answer that again. Well, we have just secured with the SF and Enhedslisten a more gentle phasing-in of the brutal unemployment benefit reform, which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stood before the elections. We've done a lot. We have spent a great deal of money to ensure that the fall out of the benefit system did not become as brutal as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl had imagined. We have ensured that there is a service, and this is an opportunity that has benefited more than 40,000 people, namely that we ensured that there was a service. I agree that too many people have fallen out of the benefit system. I also agree that the benefit system we now have, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was in charge, not functioning optimally. That is precisely why we should not say yes to hovsa solutions one more time, but get a benefit commission to look at this very carefully, so that the next unemployment benefit system we receive in Denmark is robust, provides the necessary flexibility and is backed by a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134314	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134315	I still did not get an answer to the question of Palestine, that is to say the question of whether to terminate the trade agreement with Israel as long as Israel does not comply with their part of the agreement, namely that of human rights. But I'm gonna leave it alone because I don't think there's gonna be an answer. I will come back to the question I asked about unemployment benefits, because I have to say that I think there have been many and also changing explanations by the Prime Minister as to why nothing is being done about this problem. Before the elections, the Prime Minister's party said that they were opposed to the benefit reform. After the elections, this reform was accepted because there was a majority in favour of it, since the Radicals have been involved in concluding the agreement on it. But that majority has changed now, because the Danish People's Party seems to have come up with better ideas, so that explanation is no longer good. Now you have an explanation that is about the fact that because it is in the government base, you cannot solve the problem, then you cannot change the reform, then you have to make a commission sometime later. But, frankly, we can agree that there have been many things in the government base that have been changed along the way: better maternity rights for fathers could be an example. The reality has changed, both because far more people have been found to fall out of the benefit system and because suddenly there is actually a different parliamentary majority at Christiansborg. So I ask again: why not change government policy as well? As I said, the right wing's cash benefits reform, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's unemployment benefit reform has failed completely. Responsible politicians are well aware of reality when reality changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134459	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134501	After all, it is very common in the Chamber to say that one has not received an answer when one does not like the answer, but there was in fact an answer in relation to general sanctions. For the answer was 'no' to general sanctions, but 'yes' to working for the labelling of products from settlement areas. That was the answer. So of course there was an answer. It may well be that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen did not like the answer, but there was an answer to the question. As far as the benefit commission is concerned, it is quite right that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has had every conceivable point of view in relation to the benefit reform which he himself invented, that is, every conceivable point of view. He then has a new one today, where he evidently votes in favour of the motion for a resolution that has been tabled. I think that time has run out of hovsa solutions for the benefit area. The unemployed most of all need a job, but they certainly also need an unemployment benefit system that lasts and which we do not change about hoofsa measures here in the Folketing; therefore, an unemployment benefit commission that needs to look at this thoroughly and properly. And therefore after the election: let us adopt a daily allowance system in Denmark which is durable, which provides flexibility and which there is broad support for in the Folketing. That's what I work for. We cannot organise our policy according to the Danish People's Party, which obviously changes its mind on this issue, as it suits them in relation to the current agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134633	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134634	In other words, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's and Dansk Folkeparti's attitude to the unemployment benefit system is changing from day to day. Now I'm not the kind of guy who plays or puts money on things, but I would never dare put money on what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's attitude to the benefit system is tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we can agree on that. But it is also the Social Democrats and the Radicals who are in power. I repeat: the people who have fallen out of the benefit system cannot pay rent with a commission. They have a problem now. Let's solve that problem now that's the one thing. The second thing is that this Commission is bound on its hands because it has been told to those people who are sitting on it: you have to keep Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's cuts. Anyone can imagine that if you're gonna stick with Mr. Knox... Lars Løkke Rasmussen's cuts, it's limited how many options, how many answers that commission can come up with, because it's those cuts that are the reason why all those many people have fallen out of the benefit system. So I repeat my question: why not solve the unemployment benefit problem now? Reality has changed. That wasn't true, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said 2,000-4,000 people would fall out of the system. The parliamentary situation has changed, at least right now. What, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl means tomorrow or the day after tomorrow about cash benefits, I don't know, but right now it's changed. Why wait, why not solve the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134802	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134804	Basically, the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten will not solve that challenge either. It's about recovery. Recovery is therefore for the strongest unemployed, and that is why we need to create an unemployment benefit system where we see things in a whole, where we do not make hovsa solutions, and where we do not base it on what the Danish People's Party thinks exactly that day. Because, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says, nobody dares put money on whether what the Danish People's Party believes today is also what they think in a week or perhaps after the elections. That is why the call to the electorate is, of course, that if you want to have a new robust benefit system, which has broad support in the Folketing, then you have to vote for those parties that have rejected the brutal phasing-in from the outset and who have done everything they could to ensure that the people who were falling out of the benefit system, as we have done together, are helped. After all, it is in them that you should put your trust, and not the Danish People's Party, which has meant everything about the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134911	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Sir. Anders Samuelsen as leader of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104134919	I could start with something new and try to come to the help of the Prime Minister, because I think the Prime Minister is absolutely right that Norway has not recognised Palestine. There are Norwegian parties who want this to happen, just as there are at home. But this is not really the case. The daily money debate is always lurking, but it's always only gonna be this discussion about who's the most brutal about whether it's the Prime Minister's sideman or it's Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. For some of them, at least, were fathers, or perhaps joint fads, of the benefit reform that exists. But the crucial question is essentially not that part of it; that is how we get some work for the people who want to work. That's what we should be focused on. And there are, of course, constantly coming up on a daily basis new figures pointing to the need for the government to re-adjust growth. So if we do not get the growth that has been the prerequisite for the policy that has been put forward, what does the government have in the drawer of new initiatives to ensure that growth actually comes into gear?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135026	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135028	I don't think I have a debate about who's the most brutal. I have talked about the fact that the phasing-in of unemployment benefits was very brutal. It was, after all, because there were 40,000 people who used up their daily allowances and then stood without anything. That is why we had to help those people, and that is why we have ensured that there is support for the 40,000 we are talking about here. But it has never been the intention that 40 000 should use up their daily allowance rights, and that is why we, together with the parties that have wanted to join, have ensured that there is a safety net under the people who are using up their daily allowance rights. It may be that Mr. Anders Samuelsen thinks this is an indifferent discussion. The government does not think so, and we have certainly done something about it. Mr. Anders Samuelsen's party did not want to contribute. In relation to the issue of progress in the Danish economy, we have already done a great deal to ensure that Denmark is actually on the right track. Unemployment is lower than it has been for many years if you disregard the few years during the overheating. Since the beginning of last year, 36 000 more people have entered employment, exports have increased, the housing market is much better and consumer confidence is greater. Our economy is basically in progress. It is true that we would have liked growth to come faster and better, but there is no question that the Danish economy is doing better now than it did three years ago. And this is, of course, linked to everything we have done: two growth packages, tax reform, several different reforms which have ensured that not only the economy has been managed, but also the conditions for us to make real progress in the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135221	Sir. Anders Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135222	It's as if the government's motto is: It's gonna be okay in a minute. For every time the government has come up with forecasts of how the country's economy will be doing, it has had to be downgraded. In 2012, it was expected to be 1%. growth; we got minus growth. In 2013, 1.7% were expected. growth; we really got 0.4 per cent. growth. In 2014, 1.5 per cent was expected. growth, and the latest report by the wise men points towards 0.5%. growth. And all of a sudden it's supposed to jump to 2%. growth next year. This is not realistic, and I think the Prime Minister knows that too. That is why it is relevant to discuss what is of new initiatives. I don't suppose the government will just, as the Prime Minister said a little earlier today, go to the polls to be re-elected. It also has a policy, it goes to elections on renewed initiatives. I guess you don't just want to spend the next four years running what you've decided over this period. Are there not new initiatives on the way to ensuring new Danish jobs, even better competitiveness and the creation of jobs, so that the people who both the Prime Minister and I care about and who are on the edge of the labour market actually have a real opportunity to enter and become an active part of the community? Doesn't the government really have anything new in the drawer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135340	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135341	But it is true that growth has proved to be weaker than had been estimated in August. Of course, the recession that has been going on abroad has infected Denmark. After all, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has already said that we are likely to downgrade the growth estimate in the forecast for December. This does not change the fact that both the National Bank, the Economic Council and now the Commission's forecasts today estimate that we will have growth next year and that progress will continue and increase. So says Mr. Anders Samuelsen, that everything that has to happen is about to happen. No, there are 36 000 people who have entered employment since the beginning of last year. It is not something that is about to happen to them; it is something that is 36,000 people who have entered employment, is not an indifferent thing compared to getting Denmark back on track. A housing market that is getting better is something that real families can feel out in everyday life. An unemployment rate that is lower than for many years is something that real people can feel because they get a job. So I don't understand, sir. Anders Samuelsen's view of blackness compared to not recognizing that of course things are better in Denmark now than they did 3 years ago. It does because of government policy. Is it going as fast as we'd like? No, it doesn't. But that does not change the fact that for the people who have been given work, both they and we are in a much better situation now than we were before.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135518	Sir. Anders Samuelsen, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135520	I do not need to invent any black vision, nor do I have any need to have a black vision. I am just referring to the figures, which show time and again that the government always has to adjust downwards, and it does not, of course, promote credibility, that time after time, one quarter after another, we have to say: no, we are not doing quite as we had hoped. Then the Prime Minister says: Well, we've created a lot of new jobs. Yeah, but you have one of them. by running with some huge deficits. It's also a way of creating jobs. Of course it's true. But it's not a sustainable way of creating jobs. The sustainable way to create jobs is to ensure that competitiveness is in order, that we make sure that we just tip the balance a little bit from constantly focusing on a public sector, as the government has understood. I understand that going to elections must be even bigger, instead of lightening the pressure, giving some air to the private sector, so that sustainable employment can be created in the private sector, so that much more new private jobs can be created. Why is it that one does not want to go into that thinking and try to make constructive proposals? It cannot be right that you go to the polls on nothing and just carry on with what you have decided. There must be new things in the drawer. Or is there nothing new at all? If the sacred grave has been preserved, is it under control? President:
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135641	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135642	Well, sir. Anders Samuelsen talks a lot about elections. So we're not in an election right now. We are implementing our policy • the latest growth package has not even been implemented yet • but we have implemented two growth packages that ensure that we have a better competitiveness; we have changed energy taxes to ensure that companies can do better in Denmark. And the good news, I would say to Mr. Anders Samuelsen, it's starting to work. Why is sir? Anders Samuelsen does not care that 36,000 have entered employment since the beginning of 2013? Why does it matter? Then I am aware that there is a political-ideological difference between the positions of the government and the positions of the Liberal Alliance in terms of keeping their hands on employment. I would like to make it quite clear that the government has deliberately gone right to the border, kept its hands on employment, because we do not yet have an economy that can sustain itself. The government has done so with a clear eye, because the alternative would, of course, be higher unemployment and fewer people who had entered employment. So we would very much like to stand up for the fact that we have pushed growth and kept our hands on employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135751	Thank you, sir. Anders Samuelsen. The latter is Mrs Lene Espersen as parliamentary management representative of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135800	Thank you. I would very much like to ask the Prime Minister about the government's dimensioning plan. One of the things we know with quite great certainty is that the further away you come from the metropolis of Copenhagen and Aarhus, the more difficult it is to find highly trained labour. One example is Mother's, where the general practitioner has 4,500 patients, because it is simply very, very difficult to get GPs to settle so high up north. This is a challenge that we are looking at very seriously and about which one can say that it would have been obvious in a dimensioning plan to say that at least more medical students would have to go to Aalborg, because that would actually mean that it was possible to recruit the practitioners afterwards. But peace be to it. In the government's dimensioning plan it is chosen to say that they in North Jutland, despite the fact that North Jutland has 12%. of the students, must account for 23 per cent. of the sizing cut-off. And that means that in the humanistic faculties the language subjects will disappear. This is a very great challenge, and I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister still thinks it is wise to drive with a model where one chooses centrally from what subjects should be cut away, because that then means that there will no longer be trained secondary school teachers in North Jutland. I can tell the Prime Minister that out of all high school teachers in North Jutland, who are over 60 years old, 71 per cent have. a humanistic background. And these are people who are about to retire. Does the Prime Minister really believe that the high schools in Fjerritslev and Brønderslev will succeed in recruiting the high school teachers who will no longer be coming from Aalborg University from Aarhus and Copenhagen if the government chooses to abolish the language area completely?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104135959	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140001	After all, the thoughts and plans of the Minister for Education and Research on dimensioning are now well worked out. This is something we are discussing with the municipalities; it is something we are discussing with higher education. And what is, after all, the basis for dimensioning it is also one of the things that has been a little lost in the big debate that has been going on is that there are too many graduates who cannot get a job. That is why we need to focus our education on the future, so that we train young people not for unemployment, but in areas where they have the opportunity to get a job after finishing their education. And I actually think there are a lot of people who agree with the minister and the government in that is a good idea. Why should the young people, after completing their training, first discover that there are actually no jobs for them? That's why we've started this dimensioning plan. It must, of course, be organized from the point of view of regional needs and from the point of view of higher education, which is why the Minister has also entered into a thorough dialogue with them and has now decided to postpone the dimensioning plan for a year so that we can have better opportunities to discuss it here with the educational institutions and, of course, the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140117	Mrs. Lene Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140119	I would say to the Prime Minister that if what the Prime Minister said stood up to believers, I would actually be more calm, because the point is that for every college there are perhaps different needs to be looked at. As far as North Jutland is concerned, and there the Prime Minister can ask his own party colleague, the mayor of Aalborg, there is no doubt that it will be deeply damaging if it is such a thing as the language subjects that are being cut away. There is no unemployment. It is easy to train in German, and we know that we are running out of high school teachers soon. Why, on earth, do you shut down the language area, so you have to compete with the rest of the country to get the few people who are trained, for example. get them in Aarhus or Copenhagen to Brønderslev or Fjerritslev. I think that will be very, very difficult. After all, the point is why universities are not allowed to do so themselves. I can say that Aalborg University has actually chosen to say that they would rather do that dimensioning themselves. You can see that too many sociologists and too many social workers are being trained, and that is why Aalborg University has actually chosen to say: can we not do it instead? I do not understand why the government wants to dictate exactly what training should be shut down, especially when it is in areas where there is no unemployment at all. Another example I would like to ask the Minister is in the area for which I also know the Minister's heart is beating, namely the international one. At the University of Copenhagen you have both Asia and the Middle East at the Department of Intercultural and Regional Studies. Here too, the number of subjects will be reduced. Does the Prime Minister really believe that it is right to cut back on those areas where there is a need to have experts right here and now when the Middle East is on fire?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140257	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140259	I regret to the rapporteur that I do not have the figures for the size of German at Aalborg University in front of me and cannot enter into that discussion. I would recommend that this be discussed with the Minister of Education, because this is the right place to take these discussions. Now there's time for that too. After all, we have just decided that we will postpone this one year in order to have better time for dialogue with the educational institutions and, of course, also the relevant regions. But what I think is important in this matter is the objective. The aim is not to train young people for unemployment, but rather to ensure that we trace young people into those training courses where we know they are needed after education has ended. There is nothing worse for young people than that they stand there with a master's degree and then they first find out that they can't use it for very much. Therefore, there is really good reason for dimensioning. We are now taking a little extra time to discuss this with those who are going to put it into practice, and I would recommend that we take the discussion with the relevant minister on the specific points in relation to specific lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140406	Mrs. Lene Espersen, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140408	I would say to the Minister that if the news is that one has dropped the dimensioning plans and chooses to say that one takes a year when it is discussed with universities, how it is done best, then that is the good news of the day, because all I have heard the Minister say is that implementation is postponed for one year, and that is quite another. But I have to say to the Prime Minister that what is of course worrying is that you make such a one size fits all, one size must fit all, as you pull down all higher education institutions. We are celebrating the Reformation, which seems to have been fought to allocate money to it. Hans Tausen completed the Reformation in Viborg, and subsequently he chose to teach Hebrew at the University of Copenhagen in 1536. There's his chair today. It will be abolished with the government's plan. That simply cannot be right. I just have to call on the Prime Minister instead of making a plan to close education where there is no unemployment, to let the universities do it themselves, as the University of Aalborg suggests. They know where the shoe is, and they know where people can get to work, rather than the government carrying out a slaughter of some humanist education that society actually needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140523	Then the Prime Minister ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140525	As I also mentioned before, we are postponing the implementation of that too, I think, and I think it is unreasonable to accuse the government of slaughtering education. It is an ordinary discussion we have now on how we can ensure that young people do not train for unemployment. I find it difficult to understand why the Conservative People's Party does not agree that we should ensure that young people enter those educations where we are more sure that there is work for them, rather than education where we are not so sure that there is work for them. It is such a pity for young people that they go to a long higher education and only when they graduate do they realize that it is difficult to find a job. So I have to say that I hardly recognize the Conservative People's Party in this form of expression, i.e. the slaughter of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140617	Thank you to Mrs Lene Espersen and thank you to the Prime Minister. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140629	If there are those who would like to hold talks which do not concern this point, they may move. No amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Eigil Andersen as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140717	The insecurity in the Danish labour market is great. This applies both to the unemployed and to people at work, and TrygFonden's studies also tell of an increasing insecurity in the population. Unemployed people are insecure because the bourgeois parties have made an excessively short period of unemployment benefit of only 2 years. People are threatened by ending up in an economic ruin of DKK 0.0. in income, so they must leave house and home. Many people with a job are also insecure about the future. They are afraid of being fired because if they become unemployed, they can see that the possible economic ruin also threatens them after just two years. They and their families are in the same way at risk of ending up at DKK 0.0. in income. It is true that the current government, SF and Enhedslisten have made agreements that mitigate the worst effects of the bourgeois reduced benefit rules. For a period of time, the unemployed receive the somewhat lower labour market benefit, which is approx. 7,000 kroner. less than the daily subsistence allowance per year; month. That labour market benefit has helped many people. But labour market benefits are also a temporary arrangement. It is simply built into it that the performance is shortened and that it ends up completely disappearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140901	I'm gonna have to ask for a little more quieter in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104140907	As mentioned, it is built into the labour market benefit that the length of the benefit is shortened, and eventually it ends up disappearing. For example, those who fall for two years' allowance period to New Year receive: only 9 months on labour market benefits. And those who fall this summer after 1 July will only receive 6 months on labour market benefits. This continues until the labour market benefit disappears completely, and then there is only the two-year unemployment benefit period of the bourgeois parties. As a society, we simply cannot be familiar with the unemployed. The bourgeois parties also deteriorated the rules on another point. The Left, the Danish People's Party, Radical, Conservative and Liberal Alliance doubled the work requirement to reclaim the daily allowance, and now you have to have a full year's work to reclaim the benefit right. This means that people are no longer given a fair chance of getting back into the labour market. Why? It is quite simple because today we have 133 000 unemployed. But society does not have 133,000 vacancies. That is why it is almost impossible for an unemployed person to get a full year's work. In reality, it is like being so lucky that you win the lottery. That is simply not fair. For this reason, SF proposes shortening the work requirement for the recovery of benefit rights to 1⁄2 years' work. It is also difficult to find 1⁄2 years of work at a time of 133,000 unemployed, but it is much easier than it is to find a whole year's work. That is why the SF has taken part in the financial law negotiations that are currently under way, and that is why the SF is also voting in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal here today. I would like to stress that the bourgeois unemployment benefit reform that we are affected by has voted against by the SF here in the Folketing. As I think everyone is now aware, the bourgeois government estimated that 2 000 to 4 000 unemployed people would lose the right to benefit annually. As many people also know, it has so far become 40,000 to 50,000 unemployed who have lost the right to benefit, and the annual number is expected to be around 14,000 unemployed who lose their entitlement to benefit every calendar year. What does that mean? This means that the conditions for the poor welfare reform of the bourgeois people are totally broken. If it had been any political matter other than the daily allowance, I am convinced that the error would have been corrected, but that has not happened here. Moreover, a study by the SFI recently showed that the reform is not working. It has brought under 1%. in work, and even the low number is uncertain. We pride ourselves on the Danish labour market model. There are changing employment ministers, among others. Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, who has been promoting the Danish labour market model in the world, for example in Vietnam. The Danish labour market model is the flexicurity model which the bourgeois people are in the process of destroying to the detriment of Danish society. The idea of the Flexicurity model is that it should provide a good safety net for employees if they become unemployed, i.e. security, security. On the other hand, employers have the advantage of being relatively easy to sack employees with relatively short notice periods, and this is a flexibility that employers appreciate. In fact, this is a very well-balanced model. Or rather, it was quite unreasonable that the bourgeois parties, including the Left, who are their leader and who also want to fill the Prime Minister's post after the next elections, have destroyed the Danish labour market model by cutting the safety of employees very badly. This will probably mean that the demand for longer notice of termination will be reinforced in future years of collective bargaining, and longer notice of termination is something that employers are opposed to because it reduces flexibility. Therefore, it would have been much wiser to maintain the flexicurity model with greater security for employees, and therefore there is a need to rectify it again. It was a message to the Left. Then there is a message to the government, headed by the Social Democrats. To the government, use the power while you have it. After all, it is no good to create greater security for employees only after the next parliamentary elections. I'm afraid at that point we could risk Mr. Knox's death. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has become prime minister. If that happens, we know that there is absolutely no improvement for the unemployed. Therefore, my call to the government: Use power while you have it for the benefit of the unemployed, for the benefit of the flexicurity model and thus for the benefit of the entire Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141442	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141446	Thank you, sir. President. Well, that sounds very good, sir. Eigil Andersen says. It was a purely electoral one, but there is also soon a choice; we know all about that. When Mr. Eigil Andersen says that the government needs to use power while they have it, I need to know if it also applies to SF, i.e. whether SF will use power while you have it. For there will soon be financial law negotiations, and there is currently a player in that area. Is the SF going to put the trump on in the budget negotiations and tell the government that now you have to use the power, because you get no financial law with the SF if you don't implement it, sir. Eigil Andersen's talking about? Otherwise, it is actually a little empty talk, that is, if you do not want to put trump on in the context of the financial law negotiations. Or will Mr. Eigil Andersen get rid of some petty little things that aren't really going to happen in that area? And then, sir... Eigil Andersen just stood and spoke up here on the platform. Will the SF put on trump and say to the government: do you have to do this, otherwise there is no financial agreement with us?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141554	It is not an electoral one, it is a speech which is based on the situation of the unemployed in Denmark and of the employees in the Danish workplaces who are insecure. So I have described objectively what is needed in this context. With regard to the financial law negotiations, I would like to say that today we are dealing with a proposal that is about halving the work requirement from one year's work to one and a half years' work, and that is one of the demands of the SF for the financial law negotiations. Another requirement, which also concerns the unemployed, is, as I said in my speech, that labour market benefits should be extended rather than phased out and that, in future, labour market benefits should be granted for at least one year after the two years of unemployment benefit. These are the two requirements that the SF has with it. There are also a few minor demands on the unemployed, but these are the most important demands. And I will say it in that way that I will be surprised if it is the case that there is no improvement in this area in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141657	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141700	Sir. Eigil Andersen speaks out a little, that is clear, and there is nothing to say about that, because there will soon be financial law negotiations. But is it such a requirement that Mr. Eigil Andersen will say to the government: If we do not get this implemented, is there no financial law agreement, because it is so much a demand from the SF that the right of return should be included? There were other things, too, sir. Eigil Andersen told me to go with him and be required. But how big are those demands? Is it just that you say you have those demands, but when you sit at the negotiating table and the Minister for Finance says that you cannot get that, then SF says: OK, there is nothing to do about that? Or is it so much required that they say that without them there is no financial law with the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141744	I repeat what I said before: that I find it difficult to imagine that there will be no improvement in one way or another for the unemployed in this financial law. It is a reality I cannot see into, but I can just say that it will be the smartest thing to do by the government; it is to improve some of the conditions, and there I have then mentioned two of the SF's demands. It is rare for a debate to have all its demands implemented. I think the Danish People's Party has also experienced this, but in return, it is usually the case that some of it is met.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141818	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the authors of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104141835	How long do we have to live in uncertainty? How long do the unemployed and the workers have to live in uncertainty without finding out what the government wants? How long do they have to pretend to believe that it is a working party that is at the head of this government? When will they see concrete results? These are questions you are asked every time you dare to move just a little outside the cheese bell. In 2010 the bourgeois government doubled on the initiative of the Danish People's Party and, with the backing of the Radicals, doubled the period for which work is to be done to re-establish the right to benefit. The Socialist rapporteur, Bjarne Laustsen, called the proposal unsympathetic and far worse than a halving of the benefit period. The Enhedslisten, the Social Democrats and the SF wrote in a joint supplementary report: "All in all, it is the opinion of the Social Democrats, the SF and Enhedslisten that the benefits proposals will not give the government the expected financial gain and employment effect, but that the proposals will in turn push far more than the government estimates out of the benefit system and onto cash benefits or no income. At that time Bent Bøgsted was told clearly, and so did the Left, about how wrong things would go. You didn't believe that. Unfortunately, the prophecies of the three parties have gone beyond fulfillment. Even Kristian Thulesen Dahl, the architect of the deteriorations, has acknowledged that we should halve the recovery requirement here and now, so as not to cause scandals and have major problems. Fine with self-acknowledgment, even the new converts must have a place in heaven, I have understood those who know about that sort of thing. But the government is stubbornly unwilling to recognize the scale of the disaster. The Minister for Labour last week, at the consultation on Enhedslisten's proposals, justified the government's rejection in the following way: firstly, he justified it by the fact that the government has provided a temporary subsidy for the people who have fallen out of the benefit system. That's not true, sir. Minister. On the other hand, approx. For many of the others, there is a much, much lower dependency than the daily allowance. Secondly, the Minister says that the government has already put out more than 3 billion. kr. to the so-called relaxed phasing-in of the benefit period. I am sorry to say this, but we have now tried unsuccessfully since 11 September to get a statement from the Ministry on what that money has been spent on. However, it would have been appropriate for us to deal with a proposal like this. Include e.g. What is the rapporteur's position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances? How many dynamic effects and other scams are included in the astronomical amount? I would say that, if it turns out to be true, it could almost have been possible to continue with the normal daily allowance rules unchanged and could have decided on the first day of the Folketing in 2011. The government has calculated that a halving of the benefit period will cost 600-800 million. kr., but it is with calculations of behavior changes that will result in the loss of thousands of jobs. The truth is that the calculations which, on the other hand, would show that the deterioration of 2010 would mean an additional employment of 13,000 have proved to be completely in the forest. AKU statistics show a fall in employment since 2010, and a September SFI report shows that the deterioration has had no employment effect! That is probably why the Danish People's Party has gradually come a little to the mind and wants to make amends for the mess they have made. Thirdly, the Minister says that a halving of the recovery period is part of the financial law negotiations, but the Minister for Labour knows very well that the government has rejected in advance the demand made by the SF and the Enhedslisten. Yes, the Prime Minister has been one of the most ultimate in rejecting it and is now sitting high in the tree and will not negotiate cash benefits until she has the whole solution at once. It's one of the most ultimate things I've heard in a very, very long time. Finally, the Minister of Labour says that a halving of the recovery period does not solve all the problems. No, and no one has claimed that, and certainly not Enhedslisten. On the other hand, we would argue that halving the recovery period solves problems for more people than for example. an extension of the temporary labour market benefit will do. Only 3%. of the unemployed when re-utilizing a new entitlement to unemployment benefit today, as against 20-25 per cent if we did the halving. To emphasize this: the Government and the Ministry of Employment have calculated the figures themselves. To reassure the Minister for Labour, however, we are prepared to vote in favour of both proposals, should he be in doubt about that. Finally, I would like to say that rarely have the consequences of a change of law been so much worse than calculated. Rarely has a calculation error been made in a bill as in connection with the loss of benefits. It is very disappointing that you Social Democrats are so ultimate and rejecting this cautious improvement for many unemployed people. What is new today is that the figures for how many people suffer from the deterioration are huge. The second new thing today is that there would be a majority if you could move your finger down to the green button. That is what is crucially new, namely that some have acknowledged their error and will now help to correct it, and that is why we can now form a majority if you like. We can if you want. Take the chance to vote against your own policy if you vote against now, dear Social Democrats. It is a core issue if you still want to be a working party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142523	There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142529	Thank you. I think it's quite fine what Mr. Christian Juhl says, and it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party have changed our attitude to this. We can see what problems there are, and that is why we must, of course, be ready to change it. What I would like to ask is a bit of the same thing I asked Mr. Eigil Andersen about whether it means so much to the Enhedslisten that you want to say to the government: Well, if we don't get this through, we can't talk about Finance Law. Sir. Christian Juhl has been a staunch man in the past. As far as this ultimate demand is concerned, it's hard for Enhedslisten to be met with the ultimate demands of the government if the government says: if you want to negotiate finance law, you won't get any of this in the field of unemployment benefits through. But is Enhedslisten also ready to say to the government: Well, if you're going to negotiate finance law with us, we're going to have to get this right of return through, because otherwise there's no financial law? Or is it only the government that can say to the Enhedslisten: you're not getting anything through; you just have to do what we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142638	I find it very interesting that newly saved, who for four years have been in the hammock and been the main cause of trouble, to talk about their own sins, then start to fabulate about how we can now deal with this problem. I would say that every day we try to bring improvements to the unemployed. We don't go out into town like the Danish People's Party and smash all the windows for the next morning to say, "You other people have to clean that up." By the way, they're in the hammock. And should we forget a broken glass or two when we try to sweep it up and make it look nice again, then we'll hear: Why didn't you bring it? However, it is an arrogant attitude to have to be responsible for all the trouble and then start to see if you can find a hair in the soup. I think the Danish People's Party should be ashamed of that performance. I think they should help to get things right and then take the next steps, because they know that this one proposal does not solve the whole problem. Then we could take steps two and three and four instead of the world's distant talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142739	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142742	I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that now it is not the case that we in the Danish People's Party have much experience in smashing windows. I think we'll leave it to that wing, sir. Christian Juhl comes from. But what is at stake here is that we in the Danish People's Party have recognised that there is a problem here and we have changed our position. And we have also been there to say: we need to change this. We have also delivered to a future blue prime minister, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, that's what we've got there. But if Enhedslisten could get it through with the government here, it was of course an advantage. Then Mr. Christian Juhl put that feather in his hat. But Mr. Christian Juhl stand firm against the government and say: we have to get through this, otherwise there is no financial law? I'm not gonna get an answer to that, and that's enough because sir. Christian Juhl can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142831	It could easily happen. The negotiations are not finished yet. You have begun, I would say to Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Some are in the hammock, and the rest of us are working day and night to try to produce results. First of all, as far as breaking windows is concerned: No, the Danish People's Party has probably not broken windows, but they have done something much worse. They have been chasing the unemployed for four years in an obscene way, and now we are trying to rectify them. Last year I made 13 proposals in which Mr. Bent Bøgsted voted against everyone. Now he's in place in one of the areas. This is how we will continue to work with the government, but also with the Danish People's Party, because we must have created a proper situation for the country's unemployed. It is not an academic debate and a teasing issue; it is fatal for tens of thousands of families. That is why we take it so seriously that we take every single improvement we can get, including in a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142920	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104142924	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur has climbed high in the rhetorical tree after the poor Minister for Employment, and he is also using words as a mess in his speech. Nevertheless, I think the rapporteur owes a clear answer to that, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted asks: Can we in the Danish Parliament and in the blue bloc, which is not currently part of the financial law negotiations, expect the rapporteur's party to be so steep when, in a moment with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish Parliament, apart from a single member, will vote against the motion for a resolution that the Enhedslisten will make ultimate demands in the financial law negotiations on this area? Can we get a clear answer: is that a yes or is that a no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143006	I don't know, I think this is the seventh time in this collection that I'm telling you that Enhedslisten doesn't have ultimate demands. We're trying to negotiate, and we're going to negotiate with the hell ourselves, as long as we can get some improvements home to the unemployed. We do not have the arrogant attitude of the Left: do not care about the unemployed, as long as we get there as a party; then they must suffer from it. So that's why we're gonna take every prize home. Now we're gonna try this proposal. In the negotiations that are in full swing, we are trying to make a series of proposals. Those who have been in the Chamber when we have discussed unemployment know what these proposals are, and we will try to get as many of them through as possible. It's something that goes without saying. That's why we're negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143043	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143045	If I were a member of the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party, I would be extremely sorry to be awarded the religious term the devil even here in the Assembly Hall, but the rapporteur has to reason on this himself. I don't think we're going much further. We must see how the process of negotiation is progressing. But it may be that the rapporteur can finally tell me how disappointed he is with the government's behaviour on a scale of one to ten. After all, this is not the first time that the rapporteur will run his forehead against a wall when the unemployment benefit issue is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143117	Thank you. When I say the hell myself, I now think most of the Danish People's Party and sometimes also of the Left. I'm sorry to say this, but that's the way my world is now screwed up. As far as grades for the government are concerned, I think we can wait quietly until we have a choice. Then I think the voters would like to give the government grades. Like the questioner, I am really, really nervous that the grades are not so high at the moment. We must help them to get them withdrawn, and we can do that, among other things. do by benefitting the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143148	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143158	I would then think that it might suit the rapporteur a little if he tried to have a slightly more mastered language here in the Danish Parliament. I don't think it's fair to start mixing the damn thing into this case, but of course the rapporteur decides that for himself. That's the way it is. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur something purely in principle, and it is about this with power and influence, because that is the same thing as it is about. In other words, influence is the nice word for power, but it is an inconvenient situation that we find ourselves in, and so it is that Enhedslisten has the power and they also have the influence to bring it into the negotiations that are taking place over at the Finance Minister. It is the rapporteur's own party that has the cards on hand and can play its cards, so it is understood that this is something that is high on the agenda of the Enhedslisten. Instead, the rapporteur spends all his speaking time calling the Danish People's Party Hell himself, and I don't know what. The rapporteur's party has the influence, and this also means, of course, that we must ensure that these matters are put on the agenda. I would like to ask the rapporteur because I do not think we have received an answer to this earlier: is this something that Enhedslisten assesses they can get through, or is it something that Enhedslisten will put pressure on so that they get it through, or will they just accept that it is pulled on the back of the Finance Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143310	Now I use the language that I think fits the situation, and I will say it like this: I don't know a lot of questions that for me personally are as serious as this is as serious as this and I have repeatedly shook my head and also been sad to see bourgeois politicians be as indifferent to the group of people or those of us who are unemployed. I myself have tried to be unemployed and I know of the humiliation, the humiliation of the systems we have, and I would say to Mr. Shipby: He has used all his power to destroy the system, make it really, really uncomfortable for the unemployed. So it is shameful to sit here and say: Well, how now is Enhedslisten using his power? We use all our power in the negotiations to get the best result out of them. We very, very much do not want to see the government start negotiating with the bourgeois; then we know what the price is for the unemployed. That is why we spend day and night, every minute, every hour we have, trying to get improvements home for the unemployed. - Sir, you can. Shipby trusts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143414	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143417	There was not much answer to the question I asked, because it is true that power is also an influence. Enhedslisten has the influence, Enhedslisten has the votes that determine whether there is a majority for the government's Finance Act. Those are the facts. There is no point in the rapporteur simply saying: yes, but it may be even worse if we are not there, because then the blue will come to the negotiating table, just as they did in the last budget law. But that does not change the fact that there are many also red voters here in Denmark who are wondering that Enhedslisten has not denied that you can find savings on development aid of 2.5 billion. kr. This will not be rejected by the Enhedslisten side. But you can't find 500-700 million. kr. over with the Minister of Finance to change this agreement on unemployment benefit in Denmark. That's where Enhedslisten has the opportunity, and then you shouldn't just blame others. You have your own influence, you have your own power, and that is why you have your own responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143518	I have to remind you again about breaking windows and letting others clean up. But I guess I don't have to say that much. All the places where I come out and talk to ordinary people also unemployed, who are ordinary people, you actually think it's really, really good if we go for the best possible results. I have not heard any criticism of the way Enhedslisten does politics. On the contrary, a great many people think that we are doing a good job for the unemployed in particular. I would like to say once again that I think it is arrogant that those who have destroyed the opportunities for up to 50,000 unemployed are now sitting and saying: yes, dear Enhedslisten, you will not smash it all so that there will be no improvement for them. That's what you're saying. That is why I say: no, we will not. We will go for any improvement, and if the Danish People's Party on another issue also decides and becomes wiser, we will also vote with the Danish People's Party on that issue. That's our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143617	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Well, then, sir. Finn Sørensen signed up as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104143642	Thank you. I have done so because I am twisting my brain to find out what is going on in the minds of the members of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group on this matter. That is why I would like to challenge a single member of this group, who has been so fair to present his views in the media about why he is about to press the red button on this issue. And this is sir. Bjarne Laustsen, who has himself been out in the past criticizing this reform in sharp terms and whom I am sure will continue to do so. That's where I'm going, sir. Bjarne Laustsen has done a good job. That is not what this is all about. But when Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has to explain why he is about to vote against the Enheslisten motion for a resolution, and I simply do not understand it, and I have to try to have a discussion on the arguments which Mr Bjarne Laustsen is using and which he has expressed today in Jyllands-Posten. The first argument is that there is no tradition that we understand the government parties voting in favour of the opposition's motion for a resolution. Now I didn't realize that there was such a decision in the government that you didn't do it. If it's true, what Mr. Bjarne Laustsen says there are some things that might be easier to understand. Whatever the case, however, I believe that this is a hopelessly formalistic justification. In other words, all political discussion stops if you have a position that you will only vote in favour of the proposals you make yourself. Fortunately that is not true, because if we go back in this period of government, I think we can find a few examples of the government either in the form of a report in committee, or perhaps even in the Chamber, having voted in favour of proposals other than those they themselves have put forward, and fortunately so. It's just too poor to make such a formalistic argument. The second argument is that the resolution we are tabling only solves the problem for those who have fallen out of the system and then it is not the right proposal. What kind of message is it now to give the many thousands of people who are affected by a reduced opportunity to regain the right to benefit? That's like standing on the dock and watching four people drown, and then they say: I can't save all of you, I can only save one of you, but I'll save all of you, so you'll just have to drown, all of you. That is, of course, the thinking that is being expressed here. And what is that all-or-nothing attitude? I thought it was something that was used to scold the Enhedslisten for, that is, that we will always have solutions for everything, and that we will never take along all the small partial solutions and small improvements. I think this whole story of unemployment benefits in itself is a disclaimer of it, but it is very surprising that it is now a Socialist who takes the view that if we cannot solve everything and cannot save all the four men who are drowning, we will just let them drown. The third argument is that if this resolution is tabled, it is tantamount to laundering Mr. Christian Thulesen Dahl, because then you get to vote with him. Then I'll have to ask sir. Bjarne Laustsen: What is it, sir? Bjarne Laustsen wants? Should we deprive the Danish People's Party of the right to vote in this Chamber? It could be a solution to overcome that problem. Another solution could be to carefully avoid making proposals that the Danish People's Party might vote for, because it is evident to launder the Danish People's Party if you vote with them. Then I'll just have to ask sir. Bjarne Laustsen: What has it been all the times when Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has voted with the Danish People's Party? For example: in favour of the reform of the social security system, which is, after all, a double penalty for the unemployed who lose their right to benefit. First they lose the right to benefit, then they are affected by rules which make it extremely difficult and too many impossible to reclaim the right to benefit. And when they happen to be recipients of cash benefits, they get the last penalty, that if someone has been so reckless to live with them, they are deprived of cash aid because the one they live with has an income. So a double sentence, like Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has introduced together with the Danish People's Party. Is this also money laundering the Danish People's Party? That is some hopeless argument to make. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen then says that the halving of the recovery requirement cannot stand alone. We are in complete agreement on this, and the Enhedslisten has not at any time expressed it could. It's also about securing the support. I just want to ask the Socialist Members of this High Things to think that at the moment there are thousands of people sitting there watching what happens in a moment when we are going to vote on this proposal. I think there are many who feel that this is not just about the soul of social democracy, but the soul of the whole labor movement. The bourgeois have made a killing attack on the safety of all employees in this country. Will you be prepared to correct it just a little bit, or will you not?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144210	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can't imagine that sir. Christian Juhl wants to speak briefly to his party colleague. Is that correct? That seems to me to be a hard-won use of the Rules of Procedure, but it must be. Christian Juhl saw.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144232	If this is a violation, I should not be allowed to ask a question, but I can see that I have the lamp, so I would like to ask my good friend if he does not find it very striking that the Minister of Labour is silent and sitting so quietly under a question which has so much to do with social democratic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144251	I just want to say a few words: yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144254	That's it? Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144315	Thank you. I'll be brief. As a starting point, I think it is a little too bad that there are no more parties intending to stand up here and defend the benefit reform. The motion for a resolution we are debating here will shorten the recovery period to 26 weeks in three years instead of the current 52 weeks. According to the Ministry of Finance, this would reduce structural employment by 2,400 people. That means 2,400 people who will be on unemployment benefit instead of in employment if this resolution is adopted. We think that would be a shame. We have 800,000 Danes on public support. There is no need for initiatives from in here to increase that figure. On the contrary, initiatives are needed to reduce it. At the same time, I think it is a strange discussion. We are discussing here a reform that is not fully phased in and the current government has taken several initiatives, the labour market service, the education service, which has undermined the impact of the reform that we are discussing overall. In addition, I think it is worth noting that the wise men in their recent report considered that the overall effects of the benefit reform, including the 52-week recovery period, are greater than initially assumed. In the long term, it will increase employment by up to 17 000 people. Of course, the Liberal Alliance cannot support a proposal that would reduce employment in Denmark. It's the wrong way to go. We fully understand that it is difficult for many to find employment, but the solution is not to introduce new schemes that leave these people on public support, but to pursue a much more offensive growth policy, which means that some jobs are actually being created for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144525	Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144531	When the rapporteur says that this is going to cost 2,400 jobs or that unemployment will increase by 2,400 people on the basis of these hokuspocus figures used in the finance minister's calculator, I would like to ask: where should the 2,400 have got a job? These jobs do not exist; there is no work today. Sir. Eigil Andersen told us very clearly: 133,000 unemployed we have in Denmark. In a situation like this, it is a hokuspocus to say that if you do one thing or the other, there will suddenly be some jobs. It doesn't; it's a scam and a scam.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144616	That is not correct. Fortunately, it is not the same people who are on unemployment benefits day in and day out. Fortunately, there is a huge rotation. As far as I remember, the average unemployed today are unemployed for less time than they did in 2005, when no one talked about any problems finding work. It is true that there are 130 000 unemployed, but over time it is not a high figure. This is what would be called a normal economic situation at all other times, but for some reason we continue to compare unemployment with what it was like during a very short period of recession. So I think this is a strange way of debating. We have a huge rotation on the Danish labour market, a huge dynamic; there are 600,000-700,000 job openings per year. So to suggest some picture that the Danish labour market is frozen and it is impossible to find work, has no team in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144717	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144720	I would like to try again because sometimes it is difficult to convince academics of what the reality is. If the figures in the calculations, when the scandal was made in 2010, were to fit, then it should be stated in the annexes • 2200, which have lost entitlement to the daily allowance. I hope that we agree that it appears that some 50 000 people have now lost their entitlement to unemployment benefit, that is to say that this is a very, very serious error of assessment. This means that we cannot rely on the calculations made by the Minister for Finance, since they can be completely insane; there is a factor of 20 to difference. Does the rapporteur not see that it is completely in the woods to start talking about this proposal giving more unemployed people?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144809	No, it's not. It is true that more people have fallen out of the benefit system than they had expected, but a picture is also drawn of the fact that everyone has fallen into unemployment. I mean, 20%. of those who have fallen out of the system are, after all, in employment. It is a very, very happy situation for those people who are now in employment rather than on unemployment benefits and have a higher income than they would otherwise have had. That's good. The rest has come on various other transfer income, which probably has weakened the impact of the benefit reform. In other words, once again, we are talking here about a reform which has not been fully phased in and which has introduced various other schemes which have helped to weaken the impact of the reform that has been carried out; alternatively, even more would have been in employment. But the point is that those people are then on some other kinds of transfer income. It's like the left and Christian Juhl have an idea that unless you're on cash benefits, it's bad. We do not share that view in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144911	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144919	As a starting point, I understand when Joachim B. Olsen says that there is structural unemployment. But in connection with the proposal we are considering today that the 52 weeks should be reduced to 26 weeks, I would like to ask Joachim B. Olsen: if we now adopted the proposal, how many would be unemployed after we introduced the 26 weeks' right of return?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104144946	Then it will be structural and that is the Ministry of Finance's assessment, and so I do not believe that it is a hokuspokustal • reducing employment by 2,600 people and, moreover, costing 800 million. kr. Over time. So we will be in a situation where over a period of time there will be 2,600 people who will be on unemployment benefit instead of in employment. And we can't see that is any improvement, nor especially for those people.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145017	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145020	I think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen must try to hear what he himself says, namely that when you reduce the recovery period to 26 weeks, there are 2,600 fewer in employment. Where do these jobs come from? Yes, of course it is hocuspocus, because how do you get more jobs from setting up the recovery period? Why should we not have a two-year recovery period or a three-year recovery period? Where do jobs come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145100	Well, it's the usual discussion we end up in with Enhedslisten, where you have the luxury of choosing to ignore the empire, where you can choose to disregard the research that clearly shows that when you, for example, If it reduces the recovery period to 26 weeks, which is intended to be done here, then it reduces the supply of labour and thus also reduces employment. It is a luxury that one can afford in Enhedslisten, because one simply invents one's own theories, which are not based on any kind of empire or science. Then it is said that this does not work, although it can be documented that it has worked historically both in Denmark and in other countries. But it's Enhedslisten's choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145145	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145208	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 32 (DF, EL, SF, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and Jan Johansen (S)) voted against 77 (V, S, RV, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145245	I'll open the debate in a moment. May I have a little bit more quiet, please? Then we open the debate. Sir. Henrik Høegh as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145347	With the bill amending the law on hunting and game management, the Minister has put forward a proposal aimed at getting more hunters to report their game yield in order to obtain better and more useful data collection on Denmark's game population. The bill sets a digital reporting of game yield as a condition for the renewal of hunting signs, which is assumed to result in increased reporting and thus improved data collection on the wildlife population in this country. Current legislation makes it obligatory for hunters in Denmark to report their hunting yields annually, but in the 2013-14 hunting year the reporting rate was only 67.5%. of the total number of hunters. It is therefore OK to work on a proposal on this issue, and digitisation is a right step in this regard. I also welcome a possible greater incentive to report digitally, but I do not believe that the draft law is yet ready to be implemented so quickly and so drastically not if you listen to stakeholders and experts in the field. The Left is very concerned that we now avoid that Danish hunters suddenly lose their hunting signs for a year for the simple reason that they have not been informed about the proposed new law and thus have not experienced the problem of digital reporting. We also have to be aware that if you do not have your hunting sign, you do not have a permit at the same time. That is why I firmly believe that any change in the text must be continued, in which hunters will not lose their hunting signs if they are not reported in time, but will have the opportunity to get the hunting sign back as soon as it is correctly reported. There is a difference here whether you automatically lose your hunting sign or whether there is an opportunity to regain your hunting sign once you have got your reporting in place. So I think we should ensure that hunters have been duly informed, have an opportunity to get guidance on how to report, and of course hunters should also have a warning first if there is a lack of reporting. This will ensure that we do not suddenly have a number of hunters in Denmark who have illegal weapons because they have automatically lost their hunting signs. So, on the basis of the criticisms I have outlined here, I will conclude by concluding that we are positive about increasing and getting improved reporting and thus a better data base, but it must and must have the consequence that hunters do not suddenly lose their hunting signs. We therefore want to see a clear change in the text of the draft law, so it is clear that you will not lose your hunting sign, but will get your hunting sign back once you have been correctly reported. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145708	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Torben Hansen from the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145718	For many hunters hunting is not just hunting, it is a passion, it is a leisure interest, and it is something that engages many Danes around the country. Both the hunters and the authorities are very concerned about the ethics of hunting and, of course, the sustainability that creates the framework for hunting. As you know, it is also the case that developments in our nature do not take place like lines on a spreadsheet. Nature changes when we use it. And in order to ensure that our wildlife stocks also have good conditions and ethics are in order, it is of course also necessary to have hunting times on the species. This is excellent, and the annual reports of hunters are necessary. The problem is, after all, that fewer and fewer people are complying with the reporting obligation and therefore the basis for assessing wildlife stocks becomes more inaccurate. Last season, reports were missing from almost one in three hunters, and it is probably right on the bottom of what is necessary to set hunting times for the following year. That is not good enough, and that is why, of course, there must be consistency if it is the case that the reporting obligation is not complied with, because we need to be able to keep up with the real development of wildlife stocks. The Social Democrats think it is excellent that this bill creates a greater incentive for reporting, so that it has to be reported before the hunting sign can be renewed. I would also like to say to the previous speaker that it is also apparent from the consultation note on the deadline set on 31 March that the deadline for the observations of the law and the hunting sign notice will be pushed further so that the problems raised earlier should be resolved. Social democracy also thinks it is excellent to clarify how the report should be made. Because it has to be digital. This will make the reporting rules both more uniform and transparent and, I hope, also more cost-effective for all parties. And, of course, with those comments, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145938	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is... No, I'm sorry! There was a brief comment. Sir. Henrik Høegh, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104145950	I have a question for the rapporteur, because now he said quite precisely that the first time in March there is a deadline. Is the rapporteur not concerned that next March there may still be some older hunters who may not be as fast as the digital ones who have not managed to do this and that they are suddenly in a situation where they have an illegal possession of weapons? If we change the text so that we do not lose, but renew our sign as soon as we have got it in place, then we did not come into the position that some, as here, could come under the very serious accusation that it is, of illegal possession of weapons.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150034	I would actually like to read to the rapporteur of the Left what is in the consultation note. It says: "Hearing answers give rise to a change in the draft law's comments to clarify that the reporting period for game yield will be extended beyond the current deadline per year. 31 March in the context of the forthcoming revision of the hunting sign notice. Furthermore, the authorisation clause is specified in section 43 (1). 2. so that it is clear that rules can be laid down for the time of the alert. Then it is also worth noting that, for example, the Danish Federation of Hunters has also said quite clearly that they will do everything they can for their members in making sure that this report is made so that things can be sorted out afterwards. I have to say that I do not see the problem that Mr. Henrik Høegh also sees, because the deadline here, as the Minister says, will be pushed, and when you have immediately made a report, it may be, it is a report of a yield of zero, well, then you can also get your hunting sign. And I think that is actually quite a fair approach to things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150135	Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150138	I just have to ask one more question, because it is my impression, when I look at my e-mail, that it is something that interests quite a lot of hunters, namely that every year it is those who have not been reported that can get a deadline, can get a warning and can be told that now it has to be put in place, so that if you do not have it in place automatically in the years 2, 3, 4 and 5 on 1 March, you do not automatically have an illegal possession of weapons.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150207	I must say that I am not entirely sure that I understand the rapporteur's question. But it is the case that reports are to be made every year on game yields, and if you do not get that report, you cannot get your hunting sign either. But if it is the case that the hunting test has been carried out, and that is also clear from the legislative proposal and the comments that are there, then there is a 10-year period in which, if you like, you can get back into the system; that is how I understand it, but I am not sure that I have quite understood the question put by the questioner. What is so important for social democracy is that we are now absolutely sure that the profit reports are being made so that we know what the status of game is, what the hunting times are going to be in the coming season. And I actually think that is a perfectly fair way to go about it: if you are going to have your hunting sign, you also have to make sure you have your profit statistics. So it is not more complicated, and we think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150302	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150309	Thank you. I can start by saying that we in the Danish People's Party certainly support the proposal. I would also like to say that when I read it through, I sat, perhaps mistakenly, and had a little fun, because I think it is funny that in today's Denmark we are making a bill on the basis that existing law is not respected. Because that's what's really happening here. There is a law today which says that you must report how much you have killed by game. You don't. And if you don't, today's chance is that you can get a fine. But because we then have a Nature Agency that doesn't have the habit of telling people that people don't do what they're actually obligated to do, then we'll just change the law. I think that somewhere is very funny. I don't really know what other expression I need. Because we could really have just kept the existing law. Had the Danish Nature Agency reported these hunters who didn't tell us how much prey they've killed, and had the hunters been fined, it could actually be that we hadn't been in the problem we're facing today. And I think that's funny. So I don't really know if you have to blame the hunters or the Nature Agency, because who really made a mistake? At least I know you can forget. That's the way it is. But if you were reported to the police, it might also be that you got the habit of reporting what you had done away with. So all the other things being equal, I think it's a little funny that because a lot of people don't report, about 25,000 people have a hunting sign, we just change the law. Now I do not know how many people are violating traffic law, and I do not know whether, on that basis, we are suddenly raising the speed limits or what we are doing. At least that is a strangely backward logic, I think. I would also like to mention something that has been mentioned earlier by other rapporteurs, namely the fact that it has to be reported digitally. I do not have anything against the digital world, but we must at least be 100% sure that it works, and we must be 100% sure that the dates we put in really make sense too, so that this risk of illegal possession of weapons is avoided. And again, I have to point out that if we had just kept the existing law, but that is how the police reported those who do not comply with the law, we would also have gone beyond this problem. And that's really what I think is quite weird. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150553	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Lone Loklindt from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150603	If you read the last issue of the magazine Hunter, you can see that DCE has just published the statistics on game yield from the last hunting season. As much as 2,259 pieces of game were dropped, it's a small decline, but it's still a lot of hunters, and it's 176,943 hunters who are responsible for that. They have a responsibility both to get something out of nature and to protect nature. The thing about protecting nature is, among other things. to have sustainable stock of animals. And the bill we are discussing here today is, of course, about reporting hunting yields in relation to obtaining permission to extend its hunting sign. In the past season it was almost one in three hunters who forgot to report how much game they had killed. Some may not have been hunting and have therefore not reported, but these are some very uncertain figures if only two thirds report. This is also the reason why the Minister for the Environment has put forward a bill stating that, via an IT system, the Hunting Portal, you can report digitally and thus, when you have reported, renew your hunting sign. Compared to what the former rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said about whether it was better for the Nature Agency to run around and play police officers against the hunters who did not report, I think that here we are getting a much more contemporary regulation of the area by not playing police, but that it is really reporting that is the requirement. If you do not report the game you have killed, you will not be punished, but you will not get your hunting sign either. And that should then give us what is actually the other side of the matter, namely the possibility of sustainable stock development, in relation to how hunting times are to be fixed, and that is also a wish of the Wildlife Management Council. Against this background, the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150851	There's a question from Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150855	I just have one question. When the rapporteur says that the Danish Nature Agency should not play police, I just want to hear this in principle: does the rapporteur believe that the Danish Nature Agency must comply with the law in force, which is precisely that the reports are accepted and that, if reports are missing, a fine can actually be imposed? If the Nature Agency doesn't have to comply with the law we've passed in here, who will?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104150923	The Danish Nature Agency must, of course, comply with the law and a fine can be imposed if there is a lack of reporting. It is not the case that the police impose a fine on everyone who drives too fast, because I don't think they can do that, and it's probably the same thing here in relation to the Danish Nature Agency. That's why I think it's a good thing that with this bill we're getting rid of this from the criminal code. It's strange to have to be punished for not reporting. On the other hand, I think it is fair that we can still be punished if we do not have hunting signs and kill game, and that is what remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151004	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151006	I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly. In other words, the rapporteur for the Radicals thinks it is strange that a penalty should be imposed if we do not comply with the law that we have actually adopted in here and that is in force right now, namely that we have to report. There should not be a penalty in the form of a fine, while a penalty in the form of depriving a hunting sign is quite okay. Is it because it's worse to have to pay money than to have the hunting sign taken away? I simply do not understand the distinction. All other things being equal, it must be said that it might well be that we had not faced the problem of game management that we are doing today, if the Nature Agency had made up and said: there are so many who have a hunting sign, and there are so many who have not reported, and so many who have not reported, and we just send the list to the police. And then you can actually, administratively, send out giro cards and say, "You haven't done that, and that's what the law says you have to do, so now you get the fine that's also in the law you can get." That is just what I am using as an argument, and then I just can't quite understand what the Radical Left thinks is so terribly wrong about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151109	The Radical Left wants to have as little bureaucracy as possible. I can hear that the Danish People's Party may want to see a great many letters sent away, and that a great many people have to be sent to the city and pay fines. What is really brilliant about this proposal is that you can report, so that we get an overview of what stocks we have, and thus optimize the hunting times that exist, and thus can also manage the sustainability that must be in our game stock. I think that is really the greatest wish of hunters, so I think that with this bill we will have a flexibility which will give both hunters and nature managers the best data base.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151156	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151206	It has been explained what this bill is about, and from the SF we support it. We think it is good that we get accurate statistics both in relation to regulation and to have an overview of the population in Denmark in each area. So from the SF we think it's really good. My predecessor up here, my radical colleague, had also got hold of this magazine, the hunters' magazine hunter, and there they write themselves: "The statistics are based solely on the mandatory reports, and there are always some hunters who do not get it done. This year, for example, reports from almost one in three hunters were missing. The figures have therefore been corrected for this, but it does, of course, lead to an uncertainty in the figures of the statistics which we would like to see minimized. So I don't see that there should be so much discussion that this could be really good, that is to say to get some more accurate statistics, and that it is quite reasonable that a hunting sign depends on you getting it done and getting it reported. So SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151310	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Enhedslistens Per Clausen. Apparently, he's not here. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen I forgot to say that Enhedslisten has asked me to inform you that they also support the proposal). Thank you. Then it is quite legitimate that he is not here in the Chamber. The next rapporteur is Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151333	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are of the opinion that here we have one of the laws we could be without. If you zoom in on the alleged problem, it is that not all hunters report their game yield at a certain time; a majority or two thirds do, but not all. Well, the bad hunters, what do we do about it? If one asks at a start: what is actually the consequence of not everyone being obliged to report and thus being able to keep their hunting signs? Then the answer must be no one. When people do not see any sense in making these reports, because state power says so, because otherwise legal hunting signs will be over, then they will be guaranteed to have a lot of false zero reports or false fictitious reports, and then we are really on the same level. To deprive hunters of their hunting signs because they do not receive a report form is therefore completely out of proportion in our view. This is almost like losing your driving licence as a driver if you, for example, lose your driving licence. had not been reported its driving consumption because the Minister of Energy wanted to know, or something in that case. It's a very sacred thing for a hunter to have hunting signs. So my point is: if such far-reaching principles are recognised in such a harmless area, it will be quite difficult to argue against spreading to areas with more important consequences. As legislators, we always have to ask ourselves whether there are proportions in what we are doing. What does, for example, do? A rifle hunter with his rifle that's all of a sudden illegal? No, we think we're on a slippery slope. We pass typically, isn't that 1,400-1,500 rules in here in this Parliament? And there we have to say: leave the poor hunters in peace and bureaucracy for that matter too. And I wonder if the IT systems aren't gonna cough a lot when all these multiple reports need to be handled. So we're against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151556	There are a few comments. The first is from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151602	Now I know that the Liberal Alliance is a liberalist party that wants to see a lot of laws and rules removed, and that is something that can always be discussed. But it has to be on a factual basis, I think, because this comparison with drivers makes no sense at all. It would then make a little more sense to compare it with a store owner who had to submit a VAT account or whatever it might be. But, you know, this is all about us getting an overview of what's going to be shut down in the course of a hunting year. Is there a need for regulation in one way or another? It can be a stock that is too large or too small. Well, it's just to have some statistics, also for the hunters, so we have a stock that you can go hunting as a hunter, and have an overview of what's out there of game. I cannot understand why it is not useful to have statistics on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151701	Now it's not statistics at all costs. In other words, the crucial thing, on which I understand the problem, is that there is no valid basis on which to make decisions. If you imagine that a lot of people have to be forced to print in an administrative schedule, then I can easily see that you get a lot of information that you can't use for anything. And surely we should not bother the citizens more than we need to if it does not give value to those who have to sit and weigh this down. I could, for example. Imagine that hunting associations and others could be much more interesting to ask than to trouble 176,000 hunters. In general, I think we are spending far too much time discussing administrative procedures. We can just hear the debate today. You want the police to come out? What about the time of the report in relation to the hunting sign? And all these things. That is actually just what I want to distance myself from and say that sometimes we have to see if we do not, in order to stay in terminology, shoot grey sparrows with guns. I think we do that in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151806	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151808	Okay, but doesn't it make the impression that the hunters themselves in their hunter's magazine say that they really want to see this legislation coming because they will then have a better basis to act on? Today, statistics are subject to considerable uncertainty because we lack a lot of reports. Honestly, can we not find some bigger battles to fight in the relationship between citizen and state than this? I mean, we all have to make a tax return. So it's no harder than that. I'm out of a hunter's family, and this year, for example, my brother has... killed four animals. You might be able to write it on the back of a napkin, so you just remember to get it reported. I guess it's not worse then. I really think the Liberal Alliance should find some bigger animals to shoot with guns, because this is really gray sparrows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151900	Well, that's easy for things to turn around. Here's a very small thing, and you take out a very big cannon. 'Cause I'm sure a lot of hunters are really preoccupied with their hunting signs. Their hunting signs are very sacred, and now they can lose the hunting sign because of some administrative procedures. I think that is really, really bad, especially when the vast majority are absolutely convinced that the last third is not worth much statistical. For what is the possibility of checking what you print when you just have to press something to keep your hunting sign? So it's the proportions of this, and then it's the validity of the data base that we think is out of step.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151948	Then it's mr. Torben Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104151951	Thank you. Now, contrary to the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democrats are actually confident that when the third of hunters who have yet to report begin to report, they will also report the right data and not just such zero data as Mr. Villum Christensen expressed enough that was going to be the result. I think that is talking down to the very many hunters who are both hunters and actually also trying to look after nature. We must then make sure that the correct basis is available so that we can make proper hunting times. But I would also like to ask: does Mr. Villum Christensen also saw that the Danish Federation of Hunters, which supports this proposal, has completely lost the cookies when they think it is actually good that we get a more valid statistical material?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152040	I also read some of the consultation answers, including from the Danish Federation of Hunters, as being very concerned about whether the administrative routines that need to be built around this are now also appropriate. The questioner also mentioned in his own rapporteur's speech that there are major problems when so many people have to enter and print pretty much at the same time. And what happens to their hunting signs? Basically, then, administrative things must fill so much with people where it is so small a gain we get. Why don't you ask the hunting associations instead? So there are many fewer people to ask: what is the trend? After all, we can't get down to anything very detailed in this area anyway. I do not think the questioner believes that everyone remembers how many pheasants they shot three quarters of a year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152126	Sir. Torben Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152128	Thank you. Now I know a lot of hunters, and I think that a lot of them also remember what they shot three quarters of a year ago, and they write that down too. It may be that some of them have forgotten to report it, and they will have the opportunity to do so now. As far as administrative matters are concerned, the comments I also read out to others show that this has been dealt with. But to return to the key question, Mr. Villum Christensen, that Denmark's Jægerforbund, who supports this, and who can see that we need a proper, valid basis for figures, so that we can also make hunting times forward-looking, have completely lost the cookies in this case? That must be the consequence of Mr. Knox. Villum Christensen's interpretation of the case. So the short of the long: Does the Liberal Alliance mean that Denmark Hunting Federation, which we have great confidence in, is on wrong roads and slippery ice and has lost the cookies in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152214	I'm not gonna have to deal with if anyone's lost any cookies. However, I would like to say that it is important that there are some people in this Parliament who also sometimes assess the proportions of what we set in motion by administrative procedures and reports in relation to the value that comes out of it. Otherwise, we will have to report to the state what we are doing in all the circumstances of life, and then we will know what is happening with freedom. So we want to strike a blow for freedom, and I also believe that hunters are really the people of freedom. If you ask in the field, I'm also convinced that a lot of people are shaking their heads off in relation to the value that actually comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152250	Then it's Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152253	Thank you. Well, I'm kind of surprised at the turn of this debate. I would have expected the Liberal Alliance to be so modern that it would be easier for citizens to meet the administrative obligations that exist. It is true that when you have a hunting sign, you have also undertaken to report what you have killed of prey. I think it is a great mistrust of the hunters to think that they might report something completely wrong. It is clear that they may remember incorrectly, but to think that they should actually deliberately go in and report something wrong, I think is a strange approach. The Danish Federation of Hunters says themselves that the hunters work for a deviate called: as much hunting as possible, as much nature as possible. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Villum Christensen, if it is not one of the things exactly supported here, by getting data so that you can actually manage the stocks better and be sure that there are the hunting times for which there is really a basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152409	The question is again the expression of such an administrative mechanistic logic: that you can put spreadsheets down above everything and then calculate what is wisest to do. I simply do not believe that it is possible to collect a completely waterproof picture of the nature of the game population. There are many ways to do this, and no one is saying that we need to have as heavy administrative systems as possible to get that data in. Of course, we need to have a sense of how the game stock is. But no one says you have to get all 176,000 hunters, or how many it was to find out. I'm sure there are other ways to do that. And still gone: I think it is good that some people in here sometimes say that we are not there for the administration. After all, the administrative aspect is far too much in terms of the value that comes out of the administration. That is the question we would like to ask. Because we want to reduce the administration, as the questioner also says. But sometimes we also have to ask whether this administration is necessary at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152516	Mrs. Lone Loklindt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152518	I'd like to ask if Mr. Mr. Villum Christensen agrees that every year you have to pay and renew your hunting sign; about Mr. Villum Christensen agrees that it is a little strange that you should be able to get into a carambola with the penal code if you do not report; and about Mr. Villum Christensen cannot see the advantage of being able to report digitally and thus get a secure data base to determine hunting times based on. I think the three questions really deserve clear answers from Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152600	As to whether it is safe, I have tried to explain that I do not believe that this is the right way to do things. I think we are bothering too many people in terms of what the purpose is, and I think we can make it much simpler. Sometimes somebody has to say stop for the eternal administrative machine that we let roll over the population and, as I said a moment ago, hunters are the people of freedom they don't want there to be narrowed down like this. I am not saying that the hunters are not serious, but their organisations, which I think could be much more relevant, would easily find out how much stock in the individual game types goes forward or back • who says that you should bother all 176,000? At least that would be the best thing you could do. If you do not really believe that there is value in it, you must be allowed to say: we think it should be done in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152659	Sir. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152702	Thank you. Contrary to all the other questions put to this rapporteur, I would just like to say that I have a great deal of sympathy for the frustration expressed by the rapporteur here and the concern about the consequences of this. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree that those who are probably not reporting today are probably those who are hunting once or twice a year? Not all of them are members of the Danish Jægerforbund, and all honour and respect, they do a great job both for nature and for game, and they care to fill out these statistics. The second is the pilot, the landowner, who is on a family hunt once or twice a year. He doesn't care much about this, and he's at risk of falling completely out of the system. Isn't that what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152751	I am quite sure that there are some who are very active, both in the environmental and all the conditions that can be discussed in this area, and then we have a large group where it is the event of the year, or perhaps no event at all, that you are not going hunting at all, in which we are also going rogue. It's the proportion thing again. So here we're bothering all 176,000. That's how we think in here in the Folketing, and I think that sometimes we have to ask where we get value for money and then withdraw our vicious law in this area a little bit. It would be really, really nice if some more would join in, and thank you to the Left for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152830	Sir. Henrik Høegh has no further questions. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur. Mrs. Charlotte Dyremose, the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104152841	Oh, my God. This is a debate. I think we are rewinding back to what the proposal is actually about. As it is today, hunters must renew their hunting signs every year, and they must also report what they have shot, so that we can keep an eye on the wildlife population in Denmark, among others. for the sake of those hunters who would like to be able to hunt in the years to come. Today it is the case that if they do not report, you can come after them with a fine, but, by the way, you do not really get the reports because it is not running. In principle, I could agree with what was said in the discussion that, when you have said that they should, and there is a fine for it, it is a little strange that it has not been followed up. Having said that, I would like to say that this is a much simpler and much less bureaucratic way of solving the problems. Well, now you just have to go to the computer once a year to renew your hunting sign, and if you just get reported, then you can renew the hunting sign. Then we'll get rid of all the punishment and fines, and we'll come after somebody, and then we'll discuss how we do it. No, now we can simply say that you just press the alert button, and then it runs with the hunting sign. There aren't any of these hunters who aren't supposed to renew that hunting sign once a year anyway. In other words, it is less bureaucracy, it is more obvious and there is greater certainty that it is being reported. And if it turns out that every hunter writes 0 because it's easiest when they're going to renew the hunting sign, and they don't want to spend the time on it, then we're going to discuss this again. But frankly, I believe that most hunters can reasonably remember such a thing, at least about how much they have withdrawn, and then it gets reported, so we get a better data base. In addition, we have also noted that the Danish Federation of Hunters is about those who have to do this, and also think it is a very good idea. And of course, it's because it's more obvious to connect hunting signs and reporting, rather than having to both have the hunting sign and then have the risk of this fine, regardless of how the report has not been implemented. So, like the consultation parties that have been, including the Danish Federation of Hunters, we support the proposal because we actually think it makes very good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153118	I would also like to thank you very much for a lively debate, a surprisingly lively debate. I think it is only gratifying that we can get things moving on a Tuesday afternoon like this. I very much share the comments made by the last rapporteur that this is essentially about something that will benefit hunters, namely that we can ensure that game stocks are managed sustainably so that we can organise hunting times in the future so that they are adapted to the actual size of game stocks. That is basically what this is all about, because without reliable statistics for game it will be difficult to control how much is being lost, whether it is too little or too much. This is, of course, essential in order to ensure that hunting times also reflect the size of stocks. Unfortunately, as we have also heard during the debate and discussed along the way, it is far from all hunters who report today how much game has been lost. We want to create a greater incentive to do that, and that is the purpose of this bill, namely that we say to the hunters: you can only renew your hunting signs if you also report the game yield at the same time. It is simply part of being a responsible hunter, and I also note, as several of the previous rapporteurs, that this is, after all, a clear recommendation from a unanimous Wildlife Management Council, where the main interests in this area are represented, not least the Danish Hunger Association, which has therefore itself supported this proposal and has wanted this greater incentive to report the game yield. On the other hand, we then abolish the possibility of punishing hunters who do not report their game yield. And, as the debate has also reflected, that penalty has not been used, nor has it seemed to have been preventive either. It has been commented a little on why we have not reported to the police these people who have not complied with their reporting obligations, and it has to be said that 25 000 hunters should have been reported to the police. It can be said that what we are doing instead is taking the consequence of the fact that it may seem a little violent and so alters this and links the hunting sign renewal with the report instead of maintaining that it should be punishable. I think that is far more logical and, in fact, much less bureaucratic than the solution that would otherwise be, namely to have to write around to all these people, to report all these people to the police. I do not want us to criminalise people; I want us to ensure that we have a greater incentive to contribute to the sustainable development of the game population. So we simply make the connection between hunting sign renewal and reporting as simple as possible for the individual hunter. In practical terms, the hunter can report the game yield and then pay his hunting sign at the same time. It can happen electronically on the Hunting Portal, it is quickly over, and I certainly expect that this will in no way be a burden to the individual hunter. On the contrary, this clutch will only have to be introduced once to both renew hunting signs and report your game yield. So I look forward very much to having a more solid data base with this proposal to be able to set hunting times for the future. It is in everyone's interest that we should be able to ensure the sustainable development of the game population in this way. And then I just want to say to the discussion, as Mr. Henrik Høegh raises whether it is here with the deadline for the renewal of hunting signs, that it is clear from the consultation note that, precisely in the light of the consultation answers, it is stated in the draft law's observations that the reporting period for game yield will be extended beyond the current deadline per year. 31 March in connection with this revision of the hunting sign notice. And as the draft law also says, this is due to the fact that hunting signs can be renewed throughout the year, and that is why we have considered that it is of course appropriate that the reporting of game yields can also be carried out throughout the hunting year. However, it is the case that we are already going in today to renew our hunting sign once a year, so as not to sit in the situation that I understand Henrik Høegh is very concerned about, namely that we have an illegal possession of weapons. I understand that if you forget to renew your hunting sign, then you will get a friendly reminder from the police, if you have a permit for possession of weapons, that you have apparently not renewed your hunting sign, so there you can then go in and get a new hunting sign before you get a definite case for illegal possession of weapons. I expect this to take place painlessly, which means that today we must renew our hunting sign once a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153658	I'm still a little interested in the consequences. If people don't get this done, can't figure it out digitally, will it in any case be such that everyone will just have a warning? Are there any deadlines for this warning no longer to apply? If it has now been 1 year or 2 years, when you have not renewed your hunting sign, that happens today, when within 10 years you can re-renew or you only report and renew in the year 8, it has been illegal possession of weapons for the 8 years, or will the police just say: well, that's too bad, now you have to get this in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153740	Well, there's no difference today. I mean, you already have to renew your hunting sign once a year today. And it will be the case that if you have not had it done by mistake, you get a reminder from the police, that is, a letter stating that you have not renewed your hunting sign, and then you get the opportunity to do so before you get the call that is about you illegally possessing weapons. So I just don't see that problem, sir. Henrik Høegh is trying to travel here in terms of what it's like today. There will be no difference in that. In relation to the reporting of game yields, it is true that if you have not renewed your hunting sign for a number of years, it makes no sense to require reporting for the previous year if you want to renew your hunting sign after 8 years. There is nothing to report, because there has not been a hunting sign in the previous year. I do not know whether it answers the question, but I simply do not see the problem that Mr. Henrik Høegh here is trying to travel.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153832	Sir. Henrik Høegh.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153836	Today, therefore, we can re-enact after, for example. 8 years. My question is: if under the new rules you have that period and the police at a check-up find out that you have a weapon but not a hunting sign, do you get a warning that you have to remember that you have to have a hunting sign, or do you get an accusation of illegal possession of weapons? Is there some time limit for how long you can wait, or is it ten years, and then you get there in the year 8 or 9 when it is discovered, a warning from the police that it is now time to get it in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153920	Well, it just doesn't have anything to do with this bill. Well, this bill links the game report to the renewal of the hunting sign. There is no difference between today and the situation of illegal possession of weapons, as Mr. Henrik Høegh mentions here. It will be the case that, if you have not had your hunting sign renewed, you will be reminded by the police that there is something to be put in order here if there is not to be a case of illegal possession of weapons, and you will have the chance to do so. So the connection to this bill is simply not there, as I hear it, as I hear Mr. Henrik Høegh is trying to travel here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104153957	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154012	The debate is open. The first to speak is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154033	Thank you, sir. President. A proposal has been made to require the government to submit a legislative proposal to ensure that all types of tattoos are subject to a VAT rate of 25%. The authors state that tattooers who work with their own artistic proposals and thus draw in free hand are considered to be performing artistic activities. On the other hand, a tattoo artist tattooing by template is considered to be liable to VAT. According to case law, a tattooist company is, as a rule, liable to VAT, but it is true that a tattoo service can be considered to be an artistic activity and thus exempt from VAT. In assessing the existence of artistic activities, a number of criteria must be emphasised. These criteria, for example, are: the method of work, the quality of the work done and the form of work. A tattoo artist's performance is therefore not VAT-free simply because the tattoo artist works with his own artistic proposals and thus draws in free hand. It's gonna take a little more than that. I agree with the authors that it can be difficult both for the tattooers and for SKAT to make the correct assessment and thus determine the VAT treatment; at least for my own part I must state that I am by no means an expert in tattoos, and I will not be able to judge whether an Amager number plate, as it seems to be popularly called, is artistic or not. The proposal to abolish the VAT exemption for artistic tattoo operators would mean that all tattoo work would be treated in the same way as VAT, but the implementation of the proposal would mean that there would no longer be a uniform treatment of artistic activities. That is why I believe that there may be good reason to look at this area, but, as I said, there is a need to identify a number of issues before a final decision is taken on the proposal. On this basis, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154300	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Høegh, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154322	In the Left, we believe that the proposal is so sparingly described that it is impossible to see from the proposal what consequences it has, also derived consequences in other areas. We do not rule out the fact that it may be sensible to examine whether the Tax Council can make recommendations for any changes to the regulation in this area. In general terms, we in the Left are not the great advocates of tax increases, so the Left also chooses to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154356	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154410	Thank you. Dolphins on the lower back, roses on the ankle, a very special tribal tattoo or perhaps Holger Danske all over the back. There are probably about as many different tattoos as there are people who choose to have them, and that is the subject we are discussing in this Chamber today. It is not every day that happens to us tax rapporteurs, but it is certainly very refreshing when it happens. After all, it is on the basis of a motion for a resolution, B 2 from the SF, with a desire for the government to table a bill imposing all types of tattoos on ordinary VAT. As the Minister also mentioned, it is today the case that all tattoo activities are subject to VAT, but if there are tattoo services which can be regarded as artistic activities, it can be exempted from VAT in accordance with the rules in force in relation to artistic activities. There are some criteria that are used when assessing this, and the Minister has mentioned them. I'll save you your time. However, I would like to inform the authors of the motion that it may probably be a little difficult for SKAT and the tattooists to assess in concrete terms the nature of the actual tattoo performance and thus also to determine VAT treatment. What you want to achieve with this proposal will then be that you deal with all tattoo work in the same way in terms of VAT. It may well be that it is equal treatment, but it will then lead to the failure to treat what we call artistic activity in the same way and, as I understand it, it will mean that, if we take this step first, it may have consequences for the VAT rules that are at all for artistic activity. So it is not just on the surface, and it may have consequences that are not such as to roll back. If there are challenges in this area, and there may be, I myself have just said so, it would be good to have it clarified. I also hear the Minister being open to this, and that is why I would just like to say that, as the proposal is now before us, the Socialists cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154606	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154613	This is a rather simple, small motion for a resolution which is easy to read and to go to, and it is, in fact, positive enough that, when you have some debates on such things, you can also get to grips with it quite quickly. In short, it is a matter of tattooists working with their own artistic suggestions in connection with tattoos that they draw in the open hand, I think that the proposal • is exempt from VAT, while tattooers who make it by template or by book or whatever else they have lying down have to pay VAT. I can see that it can be quite difficult to separate in terms of controls for SKAT, and it also discriminates against those tattooists. And I also believe, as the SF suggests, that by saying that both parties have to pay VAT, there will be more equal competition, and I think that could be a good thing. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal. I would say that, of course, we think it might be okay for the Ministry of Taxation to initiate an investigation into it, but I think it might be such a little bit of a case to be about to carry out the big investigation. Perhaps that should be a good thing, I think what we have at the moment. I actually think there is more to it that it is typically the case that when an opposition party like the SF is now sitting in the government no longer proposes things in the Assembly Hall, just as if the Danish People's Party does it or the Liberal Alliance does, yes, then the government can never support it. Then you always set up a committee of inquiry to arrive at exactly the same result, then you put forward the same solution to it, and then it is the government that has the credit for it. I may suspect that this is what is about to happen in this case, too, that you will not give the SF credit in this small matter, and therefore it seems necessary to start a great committee work to come to the same conclusion in order to then take credit for yourself. I think this is such a small matter that we should be able to strike and say that we think that these two industries cannot even be said to be one industry, but these two types of tattoos must of course be treated equally in terms of VAT. But the Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154806	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154814	Thank you. SF wants the government in this Assembly to submit a bill to ensure that all types of tattoos are subject to VAT of 25%. This is justified by the fact that a free-handed tattoo artist is exempt from VAT under the provisions of the VAT Act on artistic activities, while a template-designed tattoo artist is liable to VAT. The proposal to introduce VAT liability for all types of tattoos is based on the fact that it is difficult to check whether the type of tattoo is consistent with the VAT paid and that equality of VAT payments will help to ensure a level playing field within the industry. I think that this proposal contains some perspectives that are worth discussing. On the one hand, we can have equal value added tax, but it is also important to bear in mind that the implementation of the proposal, on the other hand, will mean that there will no longer be uniform treatment of artistic activities. So I would like to say that I think there are some things that need to be examined here before we can, so to speak, make a decision. I cannot accept the proposal on the basis that is available. But it is not, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, whether it is the government that should have the credit or whether the SF should have the credit. It is actually a proposal that is quite good, and we need to look at it a little more closely. That is why the Radical Left is voting against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104154958	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155009	The SF's proposal to impose VAT on all tattoos says that this way the different tattoos will be equated. But we agree with the argument used by the tax minister here from the platform that there is no equality of art in Denmark. Art is exempt from VAT and we can easily imagine that a tattoo can be art. So the exemption of VAT from artistic tattoos that we have today we want to keep because in this way we have an equality of art, whether it is on a canvas or with the body as a canvas. That is why we will not be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155103	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155111	This is, of course, a difficult discussion because we are in favour of the fact that there is still free VAT on artistic activity. Are tattoos on the body so artistic activity, unlike when you get a template tattoo where there is VAT? The starting point is that we are not normally in favour of imposing more taxes on citizens. We are normal for there to be complete equality if you do the same type of task. So we would have liked to have clarified this in more detail, including during the committee procedure, to see what is up and down the matter here. Intuitively, I would say that when I went into this, I was against the proposal, but I think there have been some arguments that have led us to reconsider the matter and to review the matter during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155205	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155216	After all, this minor motion for a resolution raises some fundamental issues. Should you have the same VAT rate on everything? Will we exempt certain artistic companies and individuals from ordinary VAT in order to support artistic activity, and how can we even ensure that it is art? These are some big discussions. I think that some good questions have come from up here, and I also think that the Minister seemed to be in favour of looking at this, so I hope that we can have a good committee and, hopefully, also make a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155306	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141104155320	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, November 5, 2014, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
