ParlaMint-DK_20141203130018	The meeting is open. I have a few reviews to make: Minister of Justice (Mette Frederiksen): Bill no. L 87 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Bill No. L 88 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the withholding tax Act and the Corporate Tax Act. Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141203130052	After all, this is a so-called urgent question, which means that speaking time is slightly shorter than usual. We also have only two hours to phase it out, which means that the possibility of making short remarks is also slightly reduced in relation to what else the rules are, but we will find out all that as we get through the discussion of the point. I would just like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 4 December 2014. Then we go to the explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203130136	Thank you. The Danish People's Party, together with the Left, the Conservatives and the Enhedslisten, has called for this urgent request, so that we can have an open and democratic debate on the future of the DR Entertainment Orchestra, and our position is very clear: the orchestra should be preserved because it bridges entertainment music and classical music, because it comes out throughout the country because it attracts people who would not normally go to orchestral concerts and because it plays good entertainment music. Today the orchestra has been written into the existing public service contract in line with the other DR ensembles. During the media negotiations it was agreed that the existing contract would be continued unless agreement was reached on anything else. For us, therefore, it is not at all a question of whether the orchestra should be preserved or not, because we have already nodded yes to it. Unfortunately, neither Denmark's Radio nor the Minister have complied with the general rules governing the award of the public service contract. The DR chose to abolish the orchestra after having checked with the Minister, who agreed to the plans, that is to say bypassing the conciliation circle, and before the public service contract was in place, and that is not possible. We are a few who have been trying for a long time to get the Minister on the right track, but she has so far been unusually steep and stubborn. There has been little willingness to compromise, although many models have been proposed. This is because there is a majority in favour of maintaining the orchestra, which is why we have not given up hope yet. It is for this reason that the Danish People's Party hopes that this urgent question will be able to loosen the Minister's stubbornness so that we can have a political agreement that preserves the orchestra. Therefore, we would ask the Minister to explain the negotiations on the public service agreement with Danmarks Radio and for the majority of the people's desire to preserve the DR Entertainment Orchestra, and on behalf of Enhedslisten, the Left, the Conservatives, DF and Edmund Joensen (SP) I will read out a proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the Minister to continue negotiations to ensure the economy to preserve the Entertainment Orchestra without alternative savings on DR's budget. The negotiations must take place within the framework of the media conciliation. • V 9).
ParlaMint-DK_20141203130403	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Normally, it would only be when the debate itself had started that the proposal for adoption was read out, but it does not matter now; we will allow the proposal to be included in the further negotiations. Otherwise, we will continue with the Minister's reply, and because this is an urgent question, the Minister will only have 10 minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203130423	Thank you. As part of the 2015-2018 media agreement, all eight parties in the Danish Parliament agreed to reduce the licence fee to Danmarks Radio by small 75 million. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). At the same time, the parties agreed to make new demands on Denmark's Radio, for example. strengthening efforts towards people with disabilities and young people, including innovative content on the Internet and television, in a broad spectrum of programmes, etc. The parties to the agreements have wanted to strengthen the regional coverage of Denmark's Radio to reflect the diversity of the various parts of the country, including in the field of culture. According to the Media Agreement, the regional units of Denmark's Radio are to be freed by the implementation of the efficiency requirements. The Media Agreement is the political framework laid down for Denmark's Radio's activities over the next four years, for which eight parties are behind and responsible, so in other words, we have jointly and unanimously imposed Denmark's Radio Savings. It is clear that it will have consequences for the company Danmarks Radio when it imposes savings of the order of magnitude we are talking about, and that also means that priority must be given. It is also clear that there is a need to prioritise in a way that strengthens some areas other than those that have otherwise been focused on. It is the management of Danmarks Radio who is responsible for implementing the financial framework provided by the media agreement, and it is also Denmark's Radio's responsibility to find savings by prioritising funds and areas of action within that framework. I believe, on principle, that parliamentary politicians should not interfere in the way in which Denmark's Radio is doing its job. It is my view that the principle of arm's length in relation to Danmarks Radio must be maintained, and this means that the management of Danmarks Radio is employed for respectively the board of directors to carry out the management task that lies here. On 8 September this year, all the media rapporteurs were informed by the Danish Radio's management about the Danish Radio's plans; a letter came in which it says, and I quote: Dear Media rapporteurs. Denmark's Radio informs about a little inside the house about a new economic plan for 2015-2018 and sends out press releases describing the overall content of the plan. In this context, a slightly more detailed description is sent than the plan and press release for information. If you want an explanation of the below, you are of course welcome to contact Maria Rørbye Rønn or grab me. And this me is the chairman of the board. I quote from page 2 under the heading Better transition options to the new media reality and focus on Denmark's Radio's live music offer: Denmark's Radio Board has adopted an economic plan for 2015-2018 to adapt Danmarks Radio to the financial consequences of the media settlement and ensure an economic space to enable Denmark's Radio to be converted to the challenges of the future. As part of this, DR Entertainment Orchestra will be terminated as from 1 January 2015, when the current public service contract of Danmarks Radio will be terminated. At the same time, a forward-looking shift of the combined live music offers to the population from the Danish Radio is being carried out. A music action plan is then described, which is a new initiative that Denmark's Radio has. With this I would like to stress that the parties of the Danish Parliament have been informed and that the rapporteurs have been informed of the plans before Denmark's Radio employees have known and before an internal briefing is made on the savings and changes for which Denmark's Radio management has decided. When I take this out, it is because I would like to emphasise that there has been a lot of talk about who has known what when, but I would say that all the media rapporteurs have known about those plans from 8 September, and now we are well into December. All parties agreed at one point that it is Denmark's Radio itself that decides how they make their savings, we have not given them very many dessins. We have said that they should not be spared in relation to the regions, but otherwise we have not said what they should not save. Now a new public service contract is to be concluded for Denmark's Radio for the next four years, and it is a tradition that the parties to the agreement are involved in that discussion. We have had a number of meetings on this without any clarification of any of the problems that have arisen along the way. It is clear that, in my view, we must continue the debates and discussions that have taken place in the media committee; that is where we decide these things. But there aren't any free solutions if you can use the word for free in this context. If you want to change the priority that Denmark's Radio has set, it is about the priority that will then be the result of it being someone who holds and who is sound. Secondly, it is important to be clear that we all have to look inside and look at ourselves and that applies to all of us; we do not need to discuss this today and ask ourselves what is really happening these days. How much should politicians actually interfere with the Danish Radio's activities? At what level of detail should they do so? We need to clarify this, because otherwise this will be the beginning of a slippery slope that is endless. For it is the case with an independent special institution such as Denmark's Radio, which is bound by a broadcasting law and thus by the definition of public service that is there that it is they who are responsible for implementing the task of Denmark's Radio as a public service institution, and that is what matters to me. It is really very crucial that we, as politicians, should be able to agree on where the limit is for the interference we can allow ourselves with an independent institution responsible for complying with the legislation adopted here in the Folketing. So it is therefore a strong and urgent appeal that we continue the negotiations in the negotiating room. After all, we cannot negotiate this from Parliament's platform by means of a question, as everyone knows from experience. It is too complicated a substance for that, and that is why it is not justifiable if we do so. That is why you can use a question to mark some opinions, some ideas, something you want to do, but you cannot go into details and you cannot negotiate in a way that leads to results right now. That is why we are continuing the negotiations. There I have called for a meeting next week and more meetings will be convened than the one scheduled for next week. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131130	I thank the Minister. Then we are ready to start the debate itself. I have to say, for the sake of good order, that there are four minutes' speaking time, and for the sake of those who are going to use the four minutes' speaking time, I would say that technically it will be the case that you get 1 minute and then 3 minutes. That's because we can't make these button systems seem different. But you have to take it easy, you get the 4 minutes. Then I would just like to say that, from now on, there will also be the possibility of short comments. There will also be restrictions because we have to achieve everything, and if the Minister finally goes up and there has to be time for short remarks, then there must also be air for it. So there will therefore be two to three brief comments per year. rapporteur here in the first place. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen for Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131215	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister, who was still in the spirit of attack. After all, the Minister has used his entire arsenal of experience for a long time to try to drive a wedge between the parties which make up the majority who want to preserve the orchestra. I just want the Minister to acknowledge today that there is a majority of 90 mandates that will preserve the orchestra. We are behind the proposal for adoption that I have read out, and we are also behind the vote tomorrow. That is why it is the Minister's job to find a solution. The Minister has invited negotiations, and that is excellent. I just want the Minister to recognise it, that is, that there is a majority and that we have to find a solution, and that is her responsibility. Then I would like to address some of the Minister's arguments. The minister says that Denmark's Radio has been charged with savings. That's not exactly true. Denmark's Radio has been imposed on efficiency improvements, and the dismantling of the orchestra is a serious saving, it is not an improvement in efficiency. The Minister says that we, as politicians, should not interfere, which is arm's length, but the Minister is interfering if it can promote her own cause. For example: was the compromise proposal that she put forward, of course an interference, in that she asked Danmarks Radio to submit a note. If that compromise proposal had been adopted by us, she would actually have broken the arm's length principle herself. The Minister conducts secret negotiations with one of the parties, namely the Left, on the Entertainment Orchestra and does not inform the remaining parties in the conciliation circle. I think that's pretty unheard of. The minister says that it is Denmark's Radio itself who decides. Now a public service contract is not a blank cheque. It's us in the Folketing who make the deal. We're in charge here. It is we who put things into the public service contract in the contract. The Minister invites further discussions. That is excellent, but I hope that the Minister now understands that it should result in the orchestra continuing. No, nothing is free, it goes without saying, but of course we must find a solution, and we have all tried to help both Denmark's Radio and the Minister to find a solution that we could all share. They've all been waved by the minister's table. Then the Minister asks how much we have to interfere. Well, we do that all the time. My colleague, Morten Marinus, has mentioned, for example: The archives where we've interfered. The arm length principle is not a letter of liberty. I think of the Minister as a kind of an arm's-length fundamentalist. You can do whatever you want. But we politicians have the responsibility, and I think we need to have a more fundamental discussion of the arm's length principle, which is why we in the Danish People's Party will probably discuss whether we should not have a question debate on this, but more about it later. The Minister is right that we should not be debating in this Chamber, but she is responsible for the fact that we have both consultation and this question. We offered the Minister that she could avoid this if we had a solution. Then she hasn't used it. We look forward to the Minister's final reply when this debate on the rapporteur is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131620	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There is at least one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131629	It is a little interesting to hear how important the Danish People's Party now suddenly believes that the arm's length principle is. They say that you should not sit here and negotiate, but you refer to virtually everything you have talked about from the negotiations, and that is why I will do so. It is not a news story that Dansk Folkeparti really wants to sit here at Christiansborg and decide how things should be distributed and what money should be found, what programmes should be sent, and also when. That is why I would just like to ask about the DR Entertainment Orchestra: did the Danish People's Party once during the negotiations say that more money should be added? You keep saying you have a solution, but do you have more money? No. That is why I do not think it is right for the people who are in the Danish National Entertainment Orchestra to pretend that one would actually like to maintain the orchestra when one is not willing to find a single crown for the Danish National Entertainment Orchestra to be preserved. Everything in life isn't free.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131732	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131733	What an ointment! Let's take it with the programs first. The Danish People's Party does not intervene in the content of the programmes. But we are politicians and we define the overall framework for Denmark's Radio, including what we would like in a public service contract; it says among other things. in the media agreement. After all, Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic has himself been included in the media agreement, which is to be incorporated into the public service agreement. So it's perfectly normal. With regard to the orchestra, it was not at any time up to the negotiations that there were plans to close it at any time. On the contrary, we were told that what was not specifically addressed in the public service contract would be included in the new contract. So we have our hands completely clean. If we had known there were plans to close that orchestra, it would have been written in. I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that the Danish People's Party was written into the media agreement at the request of the Danish People's Party, so we actually have a heart that beats for music.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131842	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131846	It is factually wrong to say that you will not interfere when the Danish People's Party has previously fought for when to send services. Well, it was written in. So you could try to read or at least talk to your former rapporteurs about how you have negotiated. In relation to this particular case of the DR Entertainment Orchestra, I would like to say that we have always and right from the start said: 'Well, it is a surprise that Denmark's Radio must save, and that it costs jobs when it is said on the one hand that it is fine that we have to abolish the business license, but on the other hand it still wants Denmark's Radio to live up to all these obligations, including the extras that we have signed together when we concluded the media agreement. That is why I would like to ask once again: is the Danish People's Party willing to raise more money, to ensure that the Danish National Entertainment Orchestra is not shut down, or is it still going to maintain a 50-50 distribution of excess licence funds • more money or no more money? Is it free for the Danish People's Party just to preserve the orchestra?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131946	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203131947	First of all, the rapporteur says that she does not want to negotiate, and then she does it anyway. Let me just remind the rapporteur that the DR must be made more efficient and that it is not done by dismantling an orchestra. The SF itself is included in this agreement; I assume that the rapporteur is still living up to that agreement and is still in it. We have put forward several proposals and we are not going to negotiate in this Chamber, the Minister is quite right in that, but we have put forward several solutions, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132022	There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, so I would like to thank the rapporteur for the questions and pass on the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is for the Left, and that is Mr Ahrendtsen. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132035	Thank you for that and, above all, I would also like to thank the Minister. You always have to choose to start on a positive note, and what I actually want to do here. For the line taken today by the Minister, namely that we recognise that a solution must be found with the majority of the Folketing, that we recognise that the so-called compromise put forward earlier by the Minister should be removed from the table and, last but not least, that we really want to find a solution so that we can stay within the media agreement is positive. So all in all, there are three positive things that we in the Left can clearly support, and that has actually been the whole idea of the Left agreeing to the wish that we should have this urgent request. Ever since we started negotiations on the public service contract, we've been dancing around each other a little. We have been in a situation where there has been a majority in the Danish Parliament who has said: we want the Danish National Entertainment Orchestra, as it is in the public service contract today and as it has previously been in the public service contract, also to continue in the future public service contract. We do so because, in fact, we believe that the Entertainment Orchestra actually plays a very, very important role in terms of cultural policy objectives. You can also look at the enormous support that the orchestra has, a unified musical industry, thousands of citizens have joined the demand on different media, and all in all we are in a situation where we also have to discuss what the Danish Radio's public service obligation is. Isn't it exactly doing something that you can't do on private terms and doing something that's unique? Exactly the DR Entertainment Orchestra is something that is unique and something that would not be possible if it were to take place in private. That is why I believe both from public service requirements, but certainly also from the fact that it is in the current contract and in the previous contract that the DR Entertainment Orchestra is of such great cultural importance in Denmark that we on the Left are clear in our message here today, and that is that we want to find an agreement, we want to find an agreement with the other conciliation partners, so that the orchestra can continue after the turn of the year. After all, there has been some discussion over the past many days about what the solution would be like. After all, I agree with the Minister that we should not be negotiating on the floor of Parliament's platform today, but I have to say that the majority of us have offered different models. We have, of course, said by the majority: we recognise that some sort of solution must be found, since the leadership of the DR has done what they have done, and that is why we must be ready for it. That is why it is a little wrong to say on the part of the Minister that the majority are not ready to negotiate, because we are actually ready to negotiate. And I think that the adoption text which my colleague from the Danish People's Party has clearly put forward on behalf of among others. Left, of course, is a solution that can then be negotiated within. And it is, of course, one of the things that we must respect the media compromise and at the same time also want to find a solution so that the Entertainment Orchestra can continue. I must say that is what I expect with great anticipation. So, frankly, it is actually a rather optimistic rapporteur on the Left who is standing here today. I think it is wonderful that the Minister is so open to finding a solution, and I think it is wonderful that we are also a majority in the Folketing, which has such a clear position on cultural policy that the Entertainment Orchestra means so much to us and that we will therefore do what we can to ensure its survival in the media conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132436	I thank Michael Aastrup Jensen. There are a few brief comments. The first one is from Özlem Sara Cekic from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132443	Thank you. I would like to read out something that appeared in Jyllands-Posten on 10 September 2014: "Ventre's media rapporteur, Ellen Trane Nørby, is the only rapporteur who was involved when the previous media conciliation was adopted, and she explains that the reason why the Entertainment Orchestra is mentioned in the previous contract is that DR threatened to close down several classic ensembles at the time. DR doesn't do that this time, and it is planned that DR will cooperate more with orchestras around the country, which has been a political wish for a long time," says Ellen Trane Nørby. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with his own party's rapporteur Ellen Trane Nørby in that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132522	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132522-2	Well, we have both signed and Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from day one, and you will see that just by a simple google search, said that we thought it was a stupid decision that DR's management took to close the Maintenance Orchestra. We already said that on day one when we were informed. And we have also always had a quiet and, we have now found out, naive hope that the maximum political expression that has come from a large number of parties also parties that are not part of the proposal for adoption that has been tabled would say that this is a stupid decision. And while there was also the very clear message from the musical industry and from a large number of citizens, we had hoped that the board and the management of DR itself decided to say: OK, here we have gone too far; here we have made a decision which has turned out to be stupid and then re-evaluated their position. They didn't. That is why we were forced to use the only political tool we have as a conciliation party, and that is precisely the public service contract negotiations. That's why we also announced our decision... I think it was three days before they started... and said very clearly what our position was on the public service negotiations at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132632	Then there is a brief comment by Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132636	So many words in answer to a question that could be answered with yes or no. Michael Aastrup Jensen I was just trying to answer the question). I also have more quotes. From day one, the Left says that, like many of us, they think that what you do is not very clever, but that they respect the responsibility of DR's management. I would like to hear: is it respectable that it is the responsibility of DR's management? That is one question. It may get a little complicated, and now the second question comes up. The rapporteur says that we want to find a solution. But does the Left want to find money, or is it a free round?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132715	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132716	This is the first time I have been reproached for trying to answer a question and trying to do so in depth. But that's my style. In fact, I usually go in a little bit and try very loyally to answer the questions. And I'm gonna do the same here in the second round. We have said clearly that we will not go in and interfere with who Danmarks Radio hires or fires. We don't want to. But that does not mean that we have given a carte blanche that we will not decide what should be included in a public service contract. The public service contract, as the rapporteur also knows, contains 20 pages of a wide range of political demands on Denmark's Radio. There, of course, we will still be reserving the right to have some requests for the public service contract, and we have said this all the time, right from the start, and now I see that I cannot answer any more, unfortunately. So it actually became a short answer this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132801	The President shall ensure that this is done by means of the rules on speaking time, at least that it does not take precedence. The next brief remark is from Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132808	Thank you. I simply need the Left to take some responsibility in this matter and show some seriousness. The Danish Radio's music action plans have all been known from 08.09. Nevertheless, we must reach 11 November before the Left indicates that they have changed their position. I would like to ask the rapporteur: if the Minister had involved the media rapporteur immediately after 08.09., would the Left not actually have voted in favour or made known that it was okay to follow the music action plans as presented by Denmark's Radio and thus also saw that it was okay for the entertainment orchestra to close?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132855	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132856	I just have to arrest the message that Social Democrats are trying to throw in and muddle the debate. Well, the Left has not at any time just hinted at an agreement that the Entertainment Orchestra could not be written into the public service contract. We have not, and we stand by that. That is why we also say clearly that we will of course not interfere with who is to be hired or fired on Denmark's Radio. In fact, we still believe that we should not interfere in this, but that we should have cultural policy demands that what the current public service contract says should also continue in a future public service contract, so we still want to be able to act politically on. Then the Socialist rapporteur can call it irresponsible. On the contrary, I think it is serious that we are actually beginning to demand that some of the various cultural policy requirements we have should of course also be able to discuss in the media circles we have without that decision being taken in advance bypassing us. And it's actually just the only quiet hope we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132953	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203132955	I believe most of all that it gives a clear impression that what the Left is out there is unsightly political teasing and that no political responsibility is taken. In my view, this is not serious, and if we continue the debate that has then been followed, then the Left has publicly stated that Denmark's Radio 3 could instead be closed down, that is DR 3, and then maintain the Entertainment Orchestra. A few months after we have concluded a media agreement in which we agree that we should strengthen the profile of Denmark's Radio by investing in children and young people, you go out and suggest that you can just close DR 3. For me, it's just evidence that you don't take this seriously and seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133038	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133039	No, on the contrary, I think it does, because we actually show how there could be some real opportunities to save on Denmark's Radio. In fact, we want to recognise that young people today do not see what we call flow television, they are online, they are watching short clips. And therefore: If you made a youth universe online, you could save a large amount of money, but still away ensure that you made a content for young people where the young people are. We actually think that could be a really, really good solution. I am so sorry that the Social Democrats are against this, but I think that the rapporteur should ask a little younger people where they are, because then he would find out that they have actually come on the Internet and that it is not a 24-hour fly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133117	Then I think we can make a third comment on a brief note. It's sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133124	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, on behalf of the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. I heard the rapporteur say that the Left will do everything possible to preserve the Entertainment Orchestra, and yet everything is quite a lot. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether everything also includes finding more money for DR. I would also like to ask the rapporteur where it was in the Left's financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133152	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133153	Sir. Andreas Steenberg should then also listen to my whole speech and to the whole sentence, because I said: everything in the context of media conciliation. That is exactly what is clearly stated in the proposal for adoption, namely that we call on the government to find a solution, but that it should be within the framework of the media conciliation. So I can reassure everyone and also people in the Ministry of Finance or elsewhere that we do not want more money to be given to Denmark's Radio. We want this to happen within the framework of media conciliation, but we also believe that a solution must be found. There we have to work all we can, but within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133226	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133227	I do not think there are so many musicians or people in Denmark who do a job without getting paid for it. That is why it is a little difficult to see it when you want to add to DR's expenses and at the same time give them more duties, but nothing should happen. So, just to be clear, I would like to repeat my question: is the Left ready to find more money for DR yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133253	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133254	I've answered that question. That is why I can just say that I think it is rather funny that the radical rapporteur is now going against what the radical minister said, namely that we should not negotiate in Parliament. But I would like to open the door now that the radical rapporteur is going against his own minister and say that one of the solutions could be to look at the excess licence funds. That is where we have set up 50% in the media conciliation. of the future excess license funds must go to DR. If you can find a solution within it, it is still gone within the framework of the media settlement, and it will also still be a solution • I think • which will ensure the survival of the Entertainment Orchestra. So many things can be done within the 3.6 billion. DKK, which Danmarks Radio receives a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133334	That was the last word from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen in this round. I thank the rapporteur and can then welcome the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Troels Ravn from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133345	Thank you. With the June media settlement, all parties have agreed that Denmark's Radio will continue to work for an ongoing efficiency of the company. In total, the agreement means a 2% efficiency requirement, which is in the region of 75 million. kr. Therefore, the management and management of Danmarks Radio have presented a savings plan, which includes: a number of seasons of Danish Radio's programs are shortened, DR 2's daytime news is closed, up to 200 employees will be dismissed, and so that the DR Entertainment Orchestra must be closed down. Now a situation has arisen in which the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the Enhedslisten, the Left and the Liberal Alliance together with the Faroese mandate, Edmund Joensen, pattern a majority of 90 mandates that will require the government to ensure that the Entertainment Orchestra remains. You will have the Entertainment Orchestra written into the public service contract for the next 4 years, which the Minister of Culture and Danish Radio are currently negotiating. It is sad that Danmarks Radio wants to dismantle the entertainment orchestra as part of a savings plan, but it is only sovereign Danish Radio's management to decide where to cut the savings knife. The Socialists have no specific desire to close the Entertainment Orchestra, certainly not. We recognize that the orchestra is a skillful orchestra, is professional, is an active musical and cultural, and is an orchestra to which many of us are happy to listen. But this debate is not, in principle, about the Entertainment Orchestra. There's something else, and there's something more at stake. Politics can be difficult, and it can seem difficult to take responsibility and stand up to its responsibilities. We need to look at this case in the context that we have made a media agreement in which Danmarks Radio is committed to finding a number of savings in 2015, savings for 35 million. kr. In Danish politics, we have an important arm's length principle between politicians and cultural institutions. It is essential that we, as politicians, should be able to limit ourselves to setting the political framework rather than managing culture in detail. The arm length principle in this case ensures that the Danish Radio management in their work takes into account professionalism and quality. If we politicians start interfering, as is the case here, this may help to shift this balance. One might then ask whether the Danish Radio's decision to abolish the orchestra is contrary to the current public service contract, which specifically states that Denmark's Radio must operate an entertainment orchestra. To this there is to say that the public service contract obliges Danmarks Radio to operate the Entertainment Orchestra until 31 December when the contract expires. And of course Denmark's Radio will live up to that obligation. So there is no conflict with the contract in force. A new public service contract must now be concluded; a contract must, of course, reflect the framework that the media agreement sets for Denmark's Radio in terms of content and economics. And then we are back on the political side, if things are to work, we must have respect for the arrangements made by Denmark's Radio management and management. Political discussions are currently taking place between the parties in the Folketing, where we are trying to find solutions to the issue of the content of the upcoming public service contract and the issue of DR's Entertainment Orchestra. This means that this query debate we are holding right now, in my view, is a little too governing, but okay, fine. The Social Democrats are, of course, around the table when we discuss and negotiate, and we will help to find solutions so that the Minister for Culture and Danish Radio can conclude a public service contract; a public service contract in which Denmark's Radio inter alia. can implement a high-quality music action plan, which means that Denmark's Radio orchestras, ensembles and choirs can continue to be large cultural assets and deliver high-quality music for the benefit of the entire Danish population. The Socialists cannot therefore support the text of the proposal for adoption proposed by the Danish People's Party and others. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133816	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are three who have asked for brief comments, and I think we can do just that. In any case, the first one from Mr. Knox is... Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133826	Thank you. I have to admit that I do not quite understand the social democratic logic of that is probably why I am the Left, because it is said that we should not interfere with the savings they make on Denmark's Radio, which are, of course, contrary to the current public service contract, because we are only now about to make a new public service contract. That is exactly what our position has always been, and that is just why we say that in the public service contract that we are debating now, which we did not negotiate one month ago or two months ago, we must have written in that the demand we have had for an entertainment orchestra for many years must also be there in the future. If we are to follow that logic, that must not be a problem. So, frankly, I do not understand why the Social Democrats are not with us in saying that, when we negotiate a public service contract, we must, of course, be able to use the whole range of cultural policy objectives. Otherwise, the Danish Radio's management will be such a kind of over-political advice that is above us, and I do not think that it is anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133932	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203133933	It is, of course, common practice, and the rapporteur on the Left also knows well that the media agreement is the overall framework economically and in terms of content. The Public Service Agreement then describes in detail how the Media Agreement should be implemented. This is a matter for the Minister for Culture and Danish Radio, and we media rapporteurs are also being taken in along the way. It can be nothing more than due diligence that a management, a management board, in Denmark's Radio, is thinking in advance about how to live up to the new media agreement that was concluded just before the summer holiday and that will work from the turn of the year. If a management, a management, does not think in advance and put forward a plan of savings, then you do not live up to your responsibilities. And it is precisely here that we in the Danish Parliament must be aware of our responsibility and respect for the actions that take place in a management in a cultural institution such as Denmark's Radio, and acknowledge that we have to deal with this, make the necessary decisions and then make a public service contract, which will replace the one that expires per year. December 31st.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134055	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134056	Again: If we are to follow that logic, that means that we cannot put the cultural policy requirements in the public service contract as we usually can. If the rapporteur is right, we cannot take action with regard to the Entertainment Orchestra, because it has been spared before we are even asked politically whether or not we can put them forward. And that is why you go in and interfere with the public service contract that we can make in the future. That is precisely where the whole problem lies, and that is also why we used a consultation this morning to find out whether the Minister has indirectly approved it or what she has. After all, it seems totally strange to me that one can make a political decision to cut off an orchestra when it appears in the current public service contract.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134143	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134143-2	In the spring, as an introduction to the media agreement, the Left was often out in public and said that now Denmark's Radio had to make it more efficient, that now the company had to be restricted. We then enter into, and we stand by, a media agreement where there is good and bad compared to Denmark's Radio. We are making some demands on them, imposing on them a development and some direction, and we are establishing an economy in which we also commit them to save money, whether the rapporteur wants to • 75 million. kr. So you don't do that without it costing somewhere. I'd like to know where the Left will find the economy for these things. The Media Agreement is the superior. We are not going down in the public service contract, and we are not going down in a situation where we have called for an increase in efficiency of 75 million. kr., then go in and say: Well, that's what we want, and we don't want that, and this has to be saved. Well, we can't handle things that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134246	I think I will stick to the Rules of Procedure and then give the floor to the next person who has a brief comment, and that is Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134253	Thank you. It was nice to hear the rapporteur speak, because he said very clearly that the Socialists do not want to close the orchestra. This is the first time we have heard it from a government party. So, the minister has been very aggressive in his defense of Denmark's Radio, and then we have the music haters over from the SF, so it's nice that we have a Social Democracy that won't close the orchestra. Then it is just that I do not understand why the proposal for adoption cannot be accepted, because what is it saying? It says: Parliament calls on the Minister to continue negotiations. But the rapporteur has agreed that we must continue with them. We need to secure the economy. Yeah. And we must maintain the Entertainment Yeah, 'cause we shouldn't interfere. And the negotiations must take place within the framework of the media conciliation. The rapporteur has also advocated this. So why on earth can the Socialists not say yes to the text of this proposal for adoption when it actually says the same thing as the rapporteur from end to end?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134401	Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134402	What is crucially important here is that the Socialists, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, will be around the table when we are going to continue the discussions. It is important that we find a compromise, a solution, in this situation. But there is, of course, a clear question about funding. This majority outside the government has not, of course, fundamentally and deeply thought about funding, and it seems that there is no agreement on where the funding should come from either. I would just like to say that the Socialists have had no specific desire to dismantle the DR Entertainment Orchestra. That was quite right from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. But we recognise and respect that when we in the Danish Parliament, with a media agreement, demand Denmark's Radio to find efficiency for 75 million. kr., it must, of course, have some consequences. And we recognise and respect the music action plan drawn up by the Danish Radio management on this basis, and believe that it continues to contain quality so that we can meet the standards that we have had in the past. That's the difference. We do not want to go in and break with the arm's length principle, and we recognise and respect the actions of the Danish Radio management on the basis of the media agreement that we all entered into against the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134532	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134533	Well, with this text of the proposal for adoption, we do not break any arm's length principle. It says it's to ensure the economy to preserve the Entertainment Orchestra. The rapporteur has just said in his reply to me that he wants to help ensure this. So why on earth, my dear rapporteur, do we not want to be in the text of this proposal for adoption? Because it's by the book, it's as spacious as it can possibly be. So even the Socialists have room for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134603	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134604	Question debate or not, fortunately, these discussions are continuing, and that is the key point. We'll continue with them in a few minutes, and we'll be at the table. The text of the proposal for adoption indicates a disagreement among the majority on funding and, of course, as long as there are these unresolved issues, such a text cannot be accepted. In addition to the principle of the arm's length principle, recognising and respecting a management, a management board, on Danish Radio, which acts in a timely manner and takes due care on the basis of a decision we made through a media agreement, we have to stick to the specifics when that agreement becomes problematic and you break up and also argue that we may have to open up the entire media agreement. And the concrete thing is that the discussions continue and, of course, there are the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134700	Then that is the last brief remark we will have today, and it is from Mr Beazley. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134706	Thank you. Of course, when you have a contract, it must be complied with. It makes no sense to have a contract between the Minister of Culture and Danmarks Radio, if Denmark's Radio can then just say: Now we choose to save away some of the obligations that have otherwise been imposed on us. And then you just have to bow to it. So when Mr. Troels Ravn says that Denmark's Radio has a sovereign right to decide for itself where savings are to be made, I agree, but this must be done within the framework that they are given; in other words, they must respect the obligations they have been imposed as a condition for obtaining 3.6 billion. kr. per year in licence fee. I'd like to ask Mr. Troels Ravn: Is it really the case that whatever Denmark's Radio had made of savings that actually removed some obligations in the contract, Mr. Troels Ravn said: Well, of course. That is to say, if Denmark's Radio had said that they could no longer afford to text for the hearing impaired and deaf, or if they had said that now they also laid down the Symphony Orchestra and the Girl Choir, Mr. Troels Ravn also said: Well, that's up to you, of course, regardless of we have a contract that imposes those obligations on you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134817	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134818	No, because we have described in our media agreement, both in the financial framework, but also on the content side, the general guidelines, requirements and content for Denmark's Radio, which we will have realized in the next four years. As far as the contracts and the Conservatives' postulate are concerned that a public service contract is being broken, it is quite clear that a contract that is running out and that needs to be renewed is being affected by a media agreement in which we set a new framework for content and economy. It is therefore the due diligence of a management and management to prepare for the new times and thus also to present a austerity plan. And it would suit the Conservatives if properness were shown here too, in other words respecting the arm's length principle in relation to the austerity plan. Everyone will remember from the spring that the Conservatives were also the main voices in the demand that Denmark's Radio should now be exposed to efficiency improvements, now Denmark's Radio's activities should be limited. Things have to be together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134926	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203134927	I should just like to say that I have not actually been particularly out with the rake after Denmark's Radio. I think it is important that we have a strong cultural institution such as Denmark's Radio, which can ensure, preserve and develop our culture and education in society, but that is exactly what they have to do, and that is why we have a public service contract that imposes certain things on them, including having the Entertainment Orchestra. I ask again: If Denmark's Radio had come and said that they would also just shut down the Symphony Orchestra and the Girl's Choir, should we also have just said that yes, you decide, of course, even if it says in the contract that you should have it? That's how simple you can ask, and I'd like to hear Mr. Troel Ravn's answer. But I think that Mr. Troels Ravn must be aware that Mr. Troels Ravn is out where he can't bottom, and he doesn't swim very well out there, so he should get back where he can bottom again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135012	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135013	Of course, the scenario outlined by the rapporteur cannot be translated into reality because we have a media agreement that is overall and sets a framework of content and economics. Then we also have a public service contract, where we media rapporteurs will of course be involved, but where that is not the intention there has never been a custom or tradition for us to enter and botanize, if I may say so, in the content. But it is a public service contract that is concluded between the Minister of Culture and Danish Radio and where we are involved. These are the understandings of what lies in the limitations and possibilities of the word involved and what lies in the arm's length principle, where we are completely wrong about each other. I would just like to say once again that when we, like the Conservatives, are in favour of Denmark's Radio being a strong cultural institution, which I fully agree with, but also say that we need to be made more effective and demanding, then, on the basis of its value, we must also have due respect and confidence in management and management for the presentation of austerity plans that meet the overall political decisions that we are involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135126	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief comments. So we can thank Mr. Troels Ravn as rapporteur and say that the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Ravn. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135141	First of all, our media rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe, is unfortunately prevented from taking part in this urgent question. That is why it is someone who is not normally the media rapporteur who will give our speech, and I hope that there is an understanding of it, but I also regret that I have not, of course, participated in all the meetings that have been on this issue over the past many weeks and months. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen said that many dances had been danced, and so I have not been with all those who have been danced, and do not know what ball cards have been in play before this. For the Radical Left, this is a very fundamental question about how we in the Danish Parliament manage the media that we have chosen to have together, namely Denmark's Radio. Do you think that we in the Danish Parliament should sit and decide how long the TV Newspaper should last, when the TV Newspaper should be held, whether there should be a deadline, when the deadline should be, whether it is a little too late, a little too early, and what this station should prioritise journalistic when it does broadcasts? The Radical Left does not think that we in the Danish Parliament should sit and run it in detail. A board of directors has been set up, and of course there is also an administration with some employees who must be responsible for running Denmark's Radio on the basis of the economy that has been obtained, but of course also on the basis of general journalistic principles and rules. In a very, very broad settlement, the Danish Parliament has decided that DR will have to embark on new tasks in the digital field. I think we all agree on that, and among other things. The rapporteur of the Left also said that it is of course the future; the younger generations are on the Internet and have their media used there instead of sitting at the checkout, just as they did in the old days. So, of course, DR needs to do more in the digital field. At the same time, in order to protect the business community, what is known as the business licence has been abolished, and this means that Denmark's Radio must find a saving. So there are more tasks, more expenditure and less revenue, and it is a very, very broad conciliation circle here in the Folketing that has adopted it. Then it is up to the board and the management, Denmark's Radio, to decide how to make it work together. I think it is rather naive for some parties to come and be very surprised that this means, of course, that some savings have to be made in some of the existing areas in order to make it stick together. In any case, the Radical Left does not want us to sit down and manage in detail, how this management is going to translate what we have asked them to do in terms of both savings and new tasks. I understand there are a number of debates going on or dancing in order to stay in the terminology of the rapporteur of the Left. We hope, of course, that there will be an agreement between the country and, of course, we trust that the Minister of Culture will be able to land such an agreement, it would also be strange other, so that this issue can be clarified and closed, so that Denmark's Radio can get started in fulfilling the obligations we have imposed on them, both in relation to the economy, savings for the business sector, but also the new areas they have to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135505	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then four brief remarks have been made to Andreas Steenberg. It is my opinion that we can only reach three if we are sure to achieve that and there must also be the opportunity for brief comments to be made to the Minister at the end. I hope you respect that. I will then try to spread it politically and so on. As good as I can. It is very easy at this stage, because now there are only three short remarks ■ so that is really good. Thanks for your help. The first is sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135531	Thank you. As a rule, we should not be too hard on a rapporteur who has not been involved in the negotiations at all, but now he has started. Andreas Steenberg himself in asking questions to you. That is why it must be a good idea to do the opposite. I just have to admit that what I think is at the heart of the whole problem is this public service contract. We have a current public service contract where it is clear that the Entertainment Orchestra must remain there. And then it is, of course, that we come to the negotiations that we have now, about what it will then be in the public service contract. Mr. Andreas Steenberg not that it is extremely problematic that we have said in broad agreement on cultural policy that the Entertainment Orchestra is so important that we write it into this contract we have even done it in the past, and then it has been in the previous contract but that now we can't do it anymore? For DR's management, even after they have also informed the Minister for Culture, has cut that opportunity away for us. Because what are they doing next? Is it, then, to stay on the same issue as Mr. Lars Barfoed says that they cut out texting for the hearing impaired in advance, so we can't write it in either? That is precisely the discussion: where is the political role and where is DR's role?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135642	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135644	No, I don't think that's extremely problematic. On the other hand, I think it is naive that the Left and other bourgeois parties believe that the DR can be put to save money and at the same time make new investments and take on new costs in the digital field, without it having a consequence in terms of savings elsewhere. It is clear that such a contract will have to change once the premise has been changed and the DR has been asked to do something else. I find it hard to understand how the Left can believe that so many restructurings and savings can be made and carried out so many new tasks in DR, without that meaning having to change things.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135725	It's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135729	Now it is fair to say that Mr. Andreas Steenberg doesn't have the area normally, so sir. Andreas Steenberg may not know, but Denmark's Radio has an annual budget of 3.6 billion. kr. Let me repeat that again: 3.6 billion. kr. So I think you can find a small, poor excuse, I call it that or, at least, less million savings in efficiency. Sir. After all, Andreas Steenberg's party has itself advocated that efficiency can be achieved in different places, so I do not understand why one suddenly has a position that it cannot be done on Danish Radio. Now let's get the proportions right. This is a small increase in efficiency out of a budget of 3.6 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135804	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135806	75 million kr., which I understand is what DR has to save, is nevertheless quite a lot of money and also a fairly large share of the annual budget. On top of that, you have to take on some new tasks, which also cost money. I also understand that, as I said, I am not as much in substance as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, that Denmark's Radio also finds some efficiency improvements, which do not mean closures. But you have also chosen to close an orchestra. I think it must be the case that when we adopt such major changes to the DR, we must also be prepared to accept that it also has some consequences for some other things, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135846	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135849	I would like to begin by commending a former party colleague to the rapporteur, the former Minister for Culture, Uffe Elbæk. When we had media talks last time, in other words, two years ago, negotiations began with the Government having a desire to remove some of the commitments made by DR in its contract. We played out openly. The undersigned and the radical rapporteur, Zenia Stampe, had some doubt about DR's commitment to explain annually what they did with regard to the Christian cultural heritage. Fortunately, we won that battle so that they will continue to explain it. This time it's just been the other way around. Some negotiations have then been opened and have been told that the existing commitments will remain, despite the fact that the first meeting was already announced that the business licence would have to be removed. Does the rapporteur not think that it was most reasonable to find the savings in places where there is no obligation, in places where you might look like the commercial media and do not have a public service obligation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135955	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203135957	Now I have not been involved in the negotiations that took place when Mr. Uffe Elbæk was Minister of Culture, so it's a little difficult for me to answer what it was like when he was Minister of Culture. But I think it is naive to think that one can save so much money and demand so much extra from DR, without having a consequence for any of the existing DR. That is the difference. Since then, sir. Uffe Elbæk, Minister for Culture, has made some new decisions on savings in a media reconciliation. I don't know anything about how to run a television station, so this about how Denmark's Radio could find savings in a different way, I don't think we should interfere. It is also difficult for ordinary politicians to know how to find a few million kroner in DR. That is why you have chosen a model where DR has an independent board of directors and an independent board of directors to take responsibility. We're not gonna sit around and be the people who move 100,000 kroner. around from one account to another within the organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140103	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140105	I agree so far that, as politicians, of course, as the rapporteur said in his speech, we must not decide where the TV Newspaper should be in the programme and how long the various programmes should last. And yes, the DR must be more efficient, but it must be done in places where they do not have obligations today and where they will not have new obligations either. At any rate, it was with the intentions that we saw that the negotiations on the new media conciliation started. So I do not understand that in a budget of 3.6 billion. kr. We cannot save this money in places where we have no obligations today or in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140141	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140143	I think that's what the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Marinus should have thought about before they entered into a settlement to give DR new tasks and save money. For, of course, it has a consequence that such a relatively large amount must be found within an organisation. The question is, of course, and that is what we cannot get an answer as to whether the bourgeois parties are prepared to find more money for DR unless we can vouch for the savings that have been made so far in a conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140215	Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140217	I fully understand that Mr. Andreas Steenberg is not the normal rapporteur in this area, but when Mr. Andreas Steenberg himself speaks to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please. In other words, Andreas Steenberg will accept that we also say something to the deputy rapporteur. I mean, the whole thing about how we're gonna interfere in how long the TV AVIS is gonna last, and I don't know what kind of examples it was, has nothing to do with this. This is about the Entertainment Orchestra being an obligation which Denmark's Radio has under the public service contract. That is what you want to take out, and we disagree. I'd like to think so. I'd like to ask Mr. Andreas Steenberg: Mr. Andreas Steenberg, that it is contrary to the arm's length principle that we, as cultural politicians, have an opinion on what should be in the public service contract and what should not be there? Well, that's what you have to understand when you hear Mr. Simpson. Andreas Steenberg is taunting us for having an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140313	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140315	I'm sorry, sir. Lars Barfoed perceived it as a mockery of Mr. Lars Barfoed and others. That was not my intention. And, of course, it would also be strange other parliament politicians think something about the TV series "1864" or football, or whatever you want to think about. That is by no means what I am saying. My point is that, after all, the DR has been asked to take on new expenses and at the same time they have been asked to do so for less money in order to benefit the competitiveness of the industry by abolishing this business licence. Then I think that, in order for it to be connected on Denmark's Radio, it has the consequence that, of course, you have to look at some of the things you have done so far and find some savings there, so that DR can deliver what we have asked them for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140408	Sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140410	Of course it has a consequence when it comes to saving. We all agree with that. However, no one is saying that it should have the consequence of choosing exactly to save something that is otherwise required to deliver under the public service contract. One could, for example: have chosen to save on some programmes in competition with commercial television channels. But you choose to save right into the heart of what is the reason why Denmark's Radio gets 3.6 billion. kr. Each licence shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of issue of the licence. There are some obligations they have to live up to when they get the money and they choose exactly to hit them. That is what I strongly disagree with as a Conservative cultural politician, and I would like to assert my right to try to change that decision, because it is a contract they have concluded with the Minister and with the State, and we are allowed to have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140457	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140459	Of course it has the Conservative People's Party and Mr. Lars Barfoed may have an opinion on it. The government and the Radical Left are also allowed to do so. We believe that we cannot impose such savings on the DR and so much new expenditure in the form of new tasks without being willing to look at the existing structures and tasks in order to make it work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140522	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur for the Radical Left and welcomes the next rapporteur, who is from the SF. It's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140534	Thank you. I would like to start by stressing that we are, of course, behind the media agreement we reached almost six months ago. Then I would also like to try to add a few words to this debate. When the government presents their media reconciliation, there is a proposal that you would like to abolish the business license: 961 kr. per Company, pr. address. The reason is that it will give rise to growth, that it will provide jobs. In fact, I ask the Minister for Finance quite specifically how many jobs are these DKK 961. actually wants to create. Even if I move several times for an answer, it will never be answered. Our concern on the part of the SF is that this will actually cost jobs. We are really afraid and worried about the latest developments in Denmark's Radio, and you can also see that it is quite justified that there will be some people who will lose their jobs. The entertainment orchestra is an extremely important cultural institution. Yes, we really want to keep it, but we also want to find money for it; nothing is free in life. And we think it is most responsible actually to find funding that has been decided this time quite specifically. We won't like Enhedslisten pushing the monkey in front of us. We will not say: we want to preserve the orchestra, but what happens next year we do not know anything about. At the same time, it means someone else has to be fired. I mean, and we certainly don't think it's Christiansborg's job to find out who's going to be fired and who's going to be hired. In 2007, the documentary department was decommissioned. Does this mean that Denmark's Radio doesn't do critical journalism? No. Much of what they do is commendable. When you put down the Entertainment Orchestra, does this mean that Denmark's Radio will not live up to their music plan? No, because Denmark's Radio has three other orchestras, and they have a music plan that they want to continue to implement. And with the media agreement, we have decided that 37 per cent should be covered. Danish music. For SF, the arm's length principle is absolutely crucial. That is not something we are just saying; it is actually also something we mean. That is why we believe that there is a management committee and that there is a politically elected board. I must also say to the Minister here from the platform that I think that this concrete compromise proposal on how many people should then have a position elsewhere is right at the limit of what can be allowed in relation to the arm's length principle. Then I just have a few words at the end of this process. The left starts by supporting that Danmarks Radio has a management responsibility, and then they actually want to see when they can see that there are so many signatures for maintaining the orchestra preserve it, and now they have also ended up saying that they will not give any money either. And this also applies to both Conservative and Danish People's Party and also to the Enhedslisten. I am actually very surprised that in this situation the Enhedslisten simply chooses to push the monkey in front of him. If it is not the orchestra, who is it that will be abolished next year? Has Enhedslisten thought this through? Is that P1? Is that Deadline? Is that DR 3? In fact, I think we should go in there and say what Christiansborg wants us to do, and I think it is a slippery slope. However, we cannot support the proposal and, of course, we are behind the agreement we reached almost six months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203140953	Here we are so lucky that there are exactly three short remarks, and that is what I still believe we can do, even though it gets harder and harder, for every time we have three. But we're trying. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141005	Thank you. I do not quite understand SF's rapporteur, because I am apparently being reproached that I will not give any more money to Danmarks Radio to save the Entertainment Orchestra, and at the same time it is stated that SF will of course comply with the media settlement. It doesn't add up. Because that is exactly what we are doing on the Left side, that is to say we want to comply with the media compromise. The media compromise is exactly what creates the framework for the Danish Radio's economy, and there is the public service contract, and we must discuss the content. That is the discussion we have now. That is why it is not an economic discussion, by the way, about what Denmark's Radio should have or should not have. It is a discussion about how we get the room for the entertainment orchestra to continue. After all, we are all on guard, including the Left. So I do not understand why the SF rapporteur wants to throw it into the debate. So I would like to ask a very clear question: if we can find a solution, among other things. in relation to the excess licence fees within the 50 per cent. And it's legal and everything else, will SF help to find a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141110	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141112	That is what we have said during the negotiations. There's nothing new in what the Left says. What we have agreed in the media conciliation is, of course, that excess licence funds will be distributed 50-50. It's the way it is right now. And now the Left says they have a proposal, because they want a distribution of 50-50. But isn't that what we decided before the summer break? What's new? Where's the new money? That's what we keep saying. And what about next year? If the Left already knows about it today, can they predict the future and see how many excess licence funds are coming and whether it will be used for operation? What to say to the Entertainment Orchestra? You have an appointment for a year, and next year, yes, there you have to pray to God, because maybe there's some money coming, maybe there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141200	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141202	Allow me to use a quote from the SF rapporteur from earlier: that was a good many words. I think that was a lot of words and not really an answer to the question. Because the situation is that I ask very simple questions. We need to find a solution and we do not have a solution now. So it may well be that the SF's rapporteur does not think this is new. This is new, and we do not have a solution. Therefore, we need to find a solution to ensure that the Entertainment Orchestra will continue after the turn of the year if SF agrees with it. It may be that the SF thinks it is quite okay that the entertainment orchestra is closed. It is a fair political attitude to have, but I have not heard the SF say that. So is SF ready to pull the work clothes and then try to find a solution within the media settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141241	It is not the number of words that is crucial. That's the time you spend. It must be remembered that speaking time is respected. Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141248	After all, we are the ones behind this media agreement, and I have always said that in order to continue from here, we should not pretend that we have a solution. We really need a solution. That is why we have come to all the meetings. I've been sitting at the hearing, too. I'm also standing here from the platform. I keep saying that it is fine, but we should not pretend anything, we should not push anything in front of us and put the monkey elsewhere. This is very important for me to emphasise. Because I just don't want us to sit here in a year and decide who's gonna be fired. For I think that is simply a breach of the arm's length principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141325	Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141327	Yeah, it sounds like the only place you can find $30 million. kr. to save over a four-year period per year; year, is at the Entertainment Orchestra, and if there is a lack of money, then it can only be there that they can be found. It's not like that. They can be found all sorts of places in Denmark's Radio's huge organization, but the problem is that they have chosen to save exactly where we have instructed them to operate something, namely the Entertainment Orchestra. I would like to ask Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic whether the arm's length principle within the meaning of the SF is such that Denmark's Radio itself is sovereign in deciding what to say in the public service contract and what not to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141406	Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141409	I would like to reply to that, but I would also like to make a comment. We have a board of directors, a politically elected board of directors, and a board of directors who find the money for themselves. It may be that Mr. Lars Barfoed has a full minute insight into the Danish Radio's budget and knows which departments and how and how they have the money to drive around there. I think it is the responsibility of the board of directors and the board of directors and not Christiansborgs. The second question was on the arm's length principle. It was about whether they could just be allowed to choose. Oh, come on! Well, at least we're making a media deal. There are plenty of things we decide to live up to. That's how it works. People often think that Denmark's Radio can just decide everything. We're actually in charge of a lot of things. I just don't think we should decide who to fire and who to hire.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141504	Then it's mr. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141509	That is precisely what we are doing, and that is precisely why there are limits to the arm's length principle, because it goes no further than imposing obligations on Denmark's Radio in exchange for 3,6 billion. kr. a year, and one of the obligations is that there are some orchestras and ensembles they have to run, and they can't just decide for themselves that now they don't want it anymore. Then I can agree that they have a board of directors and management who can decide where to save, but they cannot just come and dictate to us and tell us that it may well be in the contract that we must run an entertainment orchestra or a symphony orchestra, or whatever, but now we have just decided that we will no longer. The arm's length principle does not go that far, and that is why I say that we are allowed to believe that the entertainment orchestra should stay there, then they must save some other places. And they'll have to find out for themselves. But they must stay within the framework we have given them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141558	Yes, and the speaker must stay within speaking time. Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141602	For me, the limit is who will be hired and who will be fired. That is the limit when it comes to how we go in and make their budgets and decide one thing and the other. We'll set a frame. In order to defend Denmark's Radio a little bit in this, it is not the case that they should not live up to their music commitment. There is a big band that is a symphony orchestra, there are a number of other things and a very ambitious music plan that they have also presented. I just sometimes think that you forget it and that you pretend that it's all over now, that there's nothing they have to live up to. By the way, it is not us who give the money, it is the Danes who give the money to Denmark's Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141643	Then it's mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr, who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141647	First of all, I did not intend to make any brief comments, because I think it is strange to negotiate from the parliamentary platform, but now that I am being asked to push a monkey in front of me, I think we should just find out what kind of proposal I have been involved in putting forward. It is a proposal for adoption which includes, among other things: Says:... to ensure the economy to maintain the Entertainment Orchestra without alternative savings on DR's budget. I know that it is virtually impossible to answer without entering into the negotiations. But it shows that we have a proposal that says: yes, we want to maintain the entertainment orchestra, but we do not want to save anywhere else in DR's budget. I don't think that's pushing a monkey in front of him, but maybe that's pulling it behind you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141742	Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141745	Now the rapporteur says that it is strange to negotiate from the platform. It says here on my note that Enhedslisten is behind this query debate. I don't understand. Why, then, are we helping to make this proposal for adoption if we do not want to negotiate from the platform? Are there any things that have not been mentioned? The rapporteur has said on several occasions in the debate that we would like to have a guarantee that nothing else will be saved, and has been told that the rapporteur cannot get that guarantee. Why don't you say things the way they are? Why do you pretend you want to save the orchestra when it really isn't about it? It's about where the money is. Enhedslisten has the money? They keep saying that they want to live up to a distribution of excess license funds of 50-50, but not a penny extra. After all, we have already negotiated this before the summer holidays, and that is why I think it is quite interesting that you continue to pretend that you have a guarantee that there will be no layoffs elsewhere when you have been told many times that that guarantee cannot be given to Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141847	Sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141849	First of all, if you look at the agenda of the Folketing, you see that there is a question debate F 12. It is a query debate that has been called by Alex Ahrendtsen and Morten Marinus from DF. I think this is a good and fine debate, but I have not called this question debate. On the other hand, I find it a little strange that Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic says that we have some money. No, I guess we haven't. However, some money can be found in the negotiations. So that's part of what I'm working for, because I'd love to keep the entertainment orchestra, and I wouldn't have fired other people in the DR.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141938	Then it's Mrs. Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203141940	I should like to apologise for saying a question debate. I believe the text of the proposal for adoption. The rapporteur is absolutely right about this. The rapporteur says that he has always said that they want to find more money. But there is no majority in favour of this. The left won't find any more money. It's a 50-50 distribution of excess licence funds. It is very interesting to hear how this so-called majority pretends to have a majority. Otherwise, something just doesn't make sense. That is why I would like to hear something when the rapporteur comes up here and makes us wiser in his policy. If it is really and sincerely Enhedslisten's proposal that we should not be fired elsewhere, then we are in it. We have said that from the start. We're not gonna push the monkey in front of us and say, "Okay, then it's not you, but it's other people who need to be fired."
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142025	Thank you to Mrs Özlem Sara Cekic as rapporteur for the SF, and we will allow room for the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Cekic. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142039	I think I will start by saying that we must maintain the entertainment orchestra, but we must not fire others. I do not think we should negotiate this, but I can say that there are some proposals for both more revenue and perhaps less expenditure. I think this is an important discussion that we should be discussing today regarding the Entertainment Orchestra. It has indeed been a long struggle to preserve the orchestra, and I would also like to commend those who have been against us from the outset, because they have also entered into the debate, they are also taking part in the negotiations, so I hope that we will get a good solution to the problem. If we now look back at the debate on our new media agreement, I can say that from day one of the Enhedslisten we have said that it was a really crooked start when the government, together with the Left, intervened in our previous agreement. They made an agreement in which we, as cultural rapporteurs, were not involved, namely an agreement on the so-called growth plan, the plan which we already closed the media licence for business and public institutions and which meant license revenue of 76.4 million. kr. less. One of the most remarkable things was that the growth plan was supposed to create more jobs, but it was written in a note from the Ministry of Culture on 19 May referring to the Ministry of Finance and I quote: the abolition of the business licence makes it easier and cheaper to be a private company and a public institution. However, the abolition of the business licence does not have a scale which makes for a significant increase in employment. That is also the logic of battery hens. When we know that companies, however large they are, have to pay less than DKK 970. Every year, no one gets hired because of it when it is abolished. When we look at DR's economy, we can see that less than half of the business license has meant that there was a risk that more than 42 musicians have been given a note, namely those who have carried the entertainment orchestra. Unfortunately, I have not been able to convince the other parties, except the SF, who agree with me. Whatever the case, however, I believe that as cultural politicians we should do something for a cultural institution such as the Entertainment Orchestra. I know that many other politicians want it, and it is a Christmas month that we are in, but I do not believe that we have a Santa Claus who can just give us what we want. When we have a wish, we have to find the money for it. Some have said that our struggle to preserve the Entertainment Orchestra is a breach of the arm's length principle. However, the fact is that we have a public service contract between DR and the Ministry of Culture which elaborates on DR's public service obligations, i.e. public education obligations. The contract which runs until 1 January 2015 includes, inter alia: The entertainment orchestra as an important part of DR's public service in the music field. So the point is, this is not a breach of the arm's length principle, which I am in favour of, but it's about whether or not the Entertainment Orchestra should remain in the contract. I have, of course, put forward a proposal to use the unspent licence funds, and I stand by that. I think it can help finance the preservation of the entertainment orchestra. I think one hundred percent that we all have to and can find a solution. If we want, we can finance the Entertainment Orchestra without the DR having to make new savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142422	Thank you, sir. Jørgen Arbo-Bahr. We did not succeed in making any brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Liberal Alliance. It's Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142438	Thank you. The case of the DR Entertainment Orchestra has developed bizarrely. I think mistakes have been made along the way, and there are many who need an honourable retreat. Firstly, I think it is a clear mistake for DR to give priority to making massive savings in music and music dissemination. This is an area which both many politicians and citizens see as a core area of public service. Secondly, I think it is a clear mistake that the Minister merely took note of it when, before the board meeting, DR announced that they wanted to abolish the Entertainment Orchestra as part of the austerity plan, despite the fact that the orchestra is explicitly mentioned in the current public service contract. This meant that DR's board acted in good faith when they made the decision. In fact, formalia is such that the public service contract is concluded between the Minister and Danmarks Radio. There is a tradition of parties being involved, but the law is on the Minister's side. I think the Minister for Culture has been very, very loyal to DR throughout the process. On the other hand, I think that in this case the DR has literally been both tone-deaf and radio silence. Initially, DR finds savings that are directly contrary to the text of the applicable public service contract. These are savings which will confirm many in that DR is more interested in looking like the rest of the market than to differentiate by among others. to run the concert hall, orchestras and music dissemination of high quality. Next, DR has been extremely unhelpful as the case developed. Quite frankly, I think the DR has taken the Minister hostage. The Minister has stretched out his hand and asked whether it was possible to find a compromise where, for example, DR. undertook to equip the symphony orchestra with 20 people and let a group of these musicians specialize in the repertoire that has been the entertainment orchestra. The short answer was that such a compromise would mean that the promised music plan, which the DR presented together with the austerity plan, had to be abandoned. The DR therefore insists that the savings should be found in the field of music, and at no time did it wish to contribute actively to the resolution of the matter. How fantastic it would have been if DR had contributed with solutions of its own motion, had acknowledged that the political and popular interest was unexpected, but that it had of course prompted DR to reconsider the matter and that the DR would like to take on the task of finding a solution. That hasn't happened. From my point of view, the DR has been intolerablely silent and passive throughout the whole process. I think it's thought-provoking. Finally, as the Cabasque is in progress, I will not fail to note that I also think that the employees of the Entertainment Orchestra have exceeded the limit on how to lobby and oppose their own management and board of directors as an employee of an organisation. As media rapporteurs, we have been stormed and the whole population has been involved, well covered by various media. In fact, I think and regrettably believe that many people's sympathy is changing. So even though the Liberal Alliance wants the commitment to operate the Entertainment Orchestra continued in the new public service contract, I don't like the progress of the orchestra's members, management and other alliance partners. Under no circumstances will the Liberal Alliance contribute to increasing DR's resources than the just over 3.6 billion. kr., we have already given them in the media agreement. So we stand firm on the text of the media agreement. We are firmly committed to continuing the Entertainment Orchestra as a commitment in a new public service contract, and we will then leave it to DR's management to make the economy coherent. Right now, most of the Danish Parliament's parties are entering deep into the operation of the DR. For the same reason, the Liberal Alliance cannot be in favour of the completely contradictory proposal for adoption made today by VKO and Enhedslisten. It is neither linguistic nor material. Translated reads: DR must save, but they must not save anyway. Instead, the Liberal Alliance would urge the Minister to maintain the economy agreed in the media agreement. We will work to ensure that the Entertainment Orchestra also enters into a new contract, and then leave it to DR's management and board to make the economy work together. This must be possible within the framework of just over 3.6 billion, as you know. kr. per year for each of the next four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142904	Thank you to Mrs Mette Bock; there is at least one brief comment and it is from Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142909	I do not really know what to say to this educational lecture for the honored Parliament, but I just have one brief question. The party's chairman, Anders Samuelsen, has said in a large number of media that the entertainment orchestra must be preserved; he has been loud and well known about this. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is still the intention of the Liberal Alliance to preserve this orchestra, despite this svada we have just witnessed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142949	Mrs. Mette Bock.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203142951	Apparently, I have a tendency to provoke sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, because it's now I don't know the third or fourth time, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen tells me that I am an educator, and I am very sorry about that. I do not want to be a lecturer, but I would actually like to express the Liberal Alliance's position and view on this whole matter. If sir... Alex Ahrendtsen had listened to what I said, and he would also have heard that in my rapporteur's speech I said several times that we in the Liberal Alliance want to continue the Entertainment Orchestra and that we want the Entertainment Orchestra to be included in the new public service contract. However, we see that as politicians we have two tools: the media agreement, which determines the economy, and the public service agreement, which sets out the content we want. These are the two tools we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143031	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143032	At least it has been established that the Liberal Alliance would like to help preserve the orchestra, and that is fine. The next question I would like to ask is whether the Liberal Alliance, together with all the conciliation parties, will help to find a solution so that the orchestra can continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143051	Yes, because the solution is very simple: it is that the media agreement and the economy that lie therein are firmly established, it is untouchable and then that we must have the Entertainment Orchestra introduced into the new public service contract. That is the solution. The solution is neither that the parties of the Folketing should impose on DR where savings are to be found nor that they should require DR not to find alternative savings. Because it's operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143117	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Lars Barfoed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143136	Today we have had a debate in the Committee on Culture with the Minister about it, and we have a debate on it in this Chamber; this is a matter we have discussed in all possible contexts and for a long time. I think that the time has come, now that we are once again, but very clearly, to see that there is a majority behind this proposal for adoption and that there is an even greater majority in the Folketing that wants to maintain the Entertainment Orchestra, so it is time for us to meet in a negotiating room and find a common solution on the basis that we can all see ourselves in. We owe it to each other, and we owe it to the Entertainment Orchestra, but above all we owe it to the thousands of Danes who have some amazing musical experiences because of the entertainment orchestra. We have discussed the arm's length principle and the contract a lot. It is the case that Denmark's Radio gets 3.6 billion. kr. in license because of some decisions we've made in here. We print out the bill, the citizens pay, and then Denmark's Radio gets the money available and they know it and they can dispose of it. But of course we are not just saying that they can do what they want with them. When they get so much money in licenses, it is because we want to have a culture-bearing and addictive organisation in our society that can safeguard our culture and that can also safeguard the debate and information in our society, in other words, run public service activities. There we then have a contract which specifies in detail what kind of obligations we have on behalf of the citizens, because that is what we are elected to say they have to live up to in order to get that money. If we did not impose those obligations on them, there was no reason for us to impose a licence; then we might as well say that Denmark's Radio had to operate on the market, just as the commercial television channels do. But I don't want that. I think it is true that in Denmark we have a public service company that has a certain strength so that we can maintain and develop our culture. That is why, of course, we are also allowed to have an opinion on what is in the public service contract, and therefore I do not recognise that it would be contrary to any arm's length principle that we should not just slam our heels together and say yes, when Denmark's Radio comes and chooses exactly to save money one of the places where they have a commitment, instead of saving money everywhere else, where they increasingly have programmes competing with commercial television channels. It was in such places that they should save instead of saving where we have imposed obligations on them in a contract. It says in the contract today that you must run the Symphony Orchestra, the Entertainment Orchestra, the Big Band, the Concert Choir, the Vocal Ensemble and the Girl Choir, so the Entertainment Orchestra is today written into the contract. In this respect, it is clear that the contested tax ruling does not apply to the transfer pricing system. It must also be contrary to the arm's length principle that it states that there must be a Symphony Orchestra and that it says that there must be all sorts of other things. No, it's not like that. Of course we cultural politicians are allowed to have an opinion, and that is why we have fought this fight, and now we have come to where we need to find solutions. I welcome the fact that we have now clearly established that there is a majority to preserve this orchestra; it is a focal point in Danish musical life and therefore very important for Danish culture. It has great international recognition, it is built up over decades, and therefore, of course, it should not just be removed with a stroke of pen at a random budget meeting on Danmarks Radio. We need to find some other solutions, and I look forward to that in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143549	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the Minister of Culture has the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203143602	Thank you. I feel the need to remind you of a letter sent out to all the rapporteurs on 8 September this year, and I quote from it: Dear media rapporteurs, Danmarks Radio inform about a little inside the house about a new economic plan from 2015 to 2018 and send out press releases describing the overall content of the plan. In this context, a slightly more detailed description of the plan and press releases is sent for information. If you want an explanation of the below, you are of course welcome to contact Maria Rørbye Rønn or take hold of me and me is an employee of Danmarks Radio, who sends it here for information by the media rapporteurs. It was September 8th. Now we have listened to the debate here today and we have been in consultation this morning, and I cannot help thinking: what a pity, for example, that the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, not on 8 September, asked to have an in-depth conversation with Marie Rørbye Rønn and indicated that it was very important for the Left to maintain the Entertainment Orchestra, for it says on page 2 of this mail, which informs about what is happening with the Entertainment Orchestra. I would have liked the same to have been the case for the other rapporteurs who would have liked to have argued to preserve the Entertainment Orchestra, namely to ask for a conversation, so it became perfectly clear to Denmark's Radio what the meaning is here at Christiansborg. It really annoys me that we have to wait until 11 November because so many preparations have been made to implement this economic plan until 11 November, so that a lot of people are put in a very, very difficult situation by first reporting out under the heading: now we come to the public service contract, and now we can say that we want to maintain the entertainment orchestra. This could have been said from the outset, and some have done so from the outset. Then I should like to point out that since Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says that efficiency is not the same as job losses, jobs, that in the plan I have just mentioned and quoted here, it says that between 170 and 200 posts are planned. So it has been quite clear that it is the task of reducing the budget by 75 million. kr. plus giving priority to some new tasks or strengthening some tasks, costs reprioritisation. So it's been known all along. Then I'm a little into discussing the arm's length principle at some point. I think that is a good idea, and several rapporteurs have mentioned this, but we do not need to do it today, but we should perhaps also consider re-establishing the law on radio and television, where § 10 describes what the public service is, and the public service is not only to do what other competing channels do not send. That is not an argument for the public service requirement. The public service requirement means that Denmark's Radio is obliged to provide a very wide range of programmes and services. It is news dissemination, information, education, art, entertainment, and it must be characterised by quality, versatility and diversity, and attention must be paid to objectiveness and impartiality, etc. It is here that the arm's length principle is very central, because it is precisely Denmark's Radio's responsibility and task to distribute and plan programmes and the way the flats are structured in such a way that they talk to a large part of the Danish population, so you want to use Danmarks Radio. After all, we are in a time of digitalization and all sorts of new things that make you pressured in many places, including Denmark's Radio. So I am really sorry that the desire for Denmark's Radio to abandon the plan to abolish the Entertainment Orchestra has not been said directly to the Danish Radio's management. This has nothing to do with the arm's length principle, because here we are being called upon as media rapporteurs. It says quite plainly: the Media rapporteurs are asked if you want to get more detailed about it here. On the other hand, it has not in any way been made known to me, even to me, not all the rapporteurs, at least, who are now in favour of the idea that the Entertainment Orchestra should remain. I would also like to know this earlier than 11 November or 22 October or later. That is why I think that we have a very serious task ahead of us, and we have all recognized that as such, and we are meeting next week for negotiations, and somewhere this is the kind of thing that can be said to be the oracle of Delfi, because as I hear it, you can put a lot of different things into it. So it'll be exciting to see what we can find out next week. The summons are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144155	There are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144200	I think it is a little embarrassing to listen to the Minister. I think that the Minister is going through the debate we are having. Does the Minister not recognize that there are now seven out of eight parties in favour of maintaining the Entertainment Orchestra? The only party that has not said so is the Radical Left. Everyone else in this Chamber has said that they want to keep it. And does the Minister acknowledge that she has a responsibility to find a solution when, at the same time, there is a majority behind a proposal for adoption that clearly says that we must maintain the orchestra? I would like the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144247	I've heard the statement in a slightly different way. I know the Danish People's Party's statements that have been so for a very long time. But I also know some people who say: We accept the Danish Radio's choice. So do I, and I have not spoken at all about the Entertainment Orchestra at any time. I have not said one thing or the other about the Entertainment Orchestra, because that is not what this is about. It is about accepting Denmark's Radio's offer of how they will carry out the task they have been given through the financial framework we have given them. That's what I'm dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144329	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144331	Minister, this request is about one thing, and it is to preserve the Entertainment Orchestra. And there are seven out of eight parties that have said that they will preserve it. How on earth can the Minister stand on the platform and say that it is about everything else? I would like the Minister to answer two questions. Does the Minister recognize that there are seven out of eight parties in this Chamber who want to preserve the orchestra, because they have said so? And does the Minister recognise that she is now responsible for finding a solution because there is a majority that will preserve the orchestra? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144403	But there are not seven parties behind the solution that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen imagines. After all, there is disagreement about the solution. After all, there is no agreement on the proposal for adoption that has been put to the vote here. I just have to make that clear. There are four parties behind that proposal; there are not seven parties behind that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144431	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144434	I have to admit, I'm getting a little in a bad mood. I started by congratulating the Minister in my rapporteur's speech. Maybe I shouldn't have done that, because now the Minister is laying such an attack line on the majority of this Parliament. I just have to say, and it just takes a simple search of Google to see it, I've just done it myself, that on 8 December, on behalf of the Left, I'm out saying that I think it's a really wrong decision to close the Entertainment Orchestra, and that I think you should have done a lot of other things in relation to it. It's the same day it comes out. However, that the Minister seriously believes that this interpretation of the arm's length principle, which the Minister has, that we should have made direct contact and then had some internal negotiations about DR's board of directors, is completely out of hand for me. I'm sorry, but it is. We have applied the parliamentary rules of the game, namely that when we have to have the public service debates, that is where we report out what we think there should be in the public service contract. That is exactly how it should be, and that is how we have done it. That the Minister is so stubbornly holding onto the fact that now we must do what we can and still try to throw gravel into the machinery, I must say I am disappointed. And that is why I would just like to call on the Minister: let us now start negotiating realistically on a solution that will ensure that the Entertainment Orchestra can be preserved. So that is what a majority wants, and there are even a large number of parties who are willing to look at solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144604	I would like to repeat that next week the negotiations will be convened and that a meeting has already been convened. Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen very well. And there will be more meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144615	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144616	I appreciate that, but then I just don't understand why we should have this bucket something thrown in our heads during the final debate. Because we in the majority group have actually tried to reach out to the minister and say: we have this wish, and that is that the entertainment orchestra should remain in the public service contract, so let us find a solution. After all, it is the Minister who says that there is no solution, that it is completely impossible and so on. Do we not agree that the Minister for Culture is the Minister for Culture? Do we not agree that it is the Minister for Culture who has the government's responsibility to negotiate with this majority that is now? I'm sorry, I'm gonna put it on the head, but the Minister for Culture has done the same thing himself. If the Minister for Culture doesn't feel she's an adult in terms of getting this majority, then there's an alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144702	I really wish you a lot that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen had long ago been so open to me as he is right now. It would have been extremely helpful if, at an earlier stage than 11 November, I had known what the view of the Left was in this matter. One is what is being said in the media, another is what is being said to me when we have meetings. I have not before 11 November been faced with that demand by Mr Beazley. Michael Aastrup Jensen, whom I am faced with now, and I would have liked it to have happened earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144740	Sir. Morten Marinus for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144742	Now I have to be careful not to get upset too, but I have to admit that is difficult in this situation. I said last week that I thought the Minister for Culture was cowardly in this case, and I think she, too, has shown here that she's still gone. The Minister believes that we should have addressed Denmark's Radio directly and informed of our position or asked questions. In fact, in the Danish People's Party, we did what we thought was right: we approached the Minister and expressed our opinion and invited the Minister to contact Denmark's Radio to slow down the closure and firing of the Entertainment Orchestra. We have done so because we believe that we have started negotiations with an orientation at the first ministerial meeting of the Ministry's officials that existing commitments were not necessary because they would be continued in the new contract. Then it doesn't matter whether or not there is a majority in the press backing DR's decision in September. Then we've negotiated a lie. We were told that the existing commitments would be continued and therefore no one has mentioned them during the negotiation period, so it is based on a lie if the Minister does not take action now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144859	I would like to repeat that we will call for negotiations next week. This has been agreed both this morning and now. I would have liked there to have been some clearer reports to me during the autumn, as I have just said. There wasn't, and it annoys me today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144917	Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144918	We look forward to those negotiations and also hope that something will come out of them. If that is not the case, we will take note of the Minister's words, and then we will make direct contact with Denmark's Radio in the future. Because then it would not be worth making enquiries to the Minister first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144938	I am still referring to the e-mail from which I have quoted that the questions could have been taken up with Maria Rørbye Rønn in order to clarify what the point was. That's what it says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144950	Sir. Lars Barfoed for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203144953	I agree with the wonder. There are, then, several of us who think that in our speech here we called for us to look ahead and find solutions, negotiate and find something that everyone can see themselves in. What is the Minister's answer? She's up here, she's gonna give us all a good round and yell at us. But okay, that's okay. The strangest statement that has fallen here today was when the Minister announced a moment ago that this is not about the Entertainment Orchestra. I mean, I'm sorry, then there's something I totally misunderstood. I thought that's what this debate was about. It certainly does for me. It's about keeping the Entertainment Orchestra. That is the substance of cultural policy. Then it may well be that the Radical Left has a bloodless cultural radical approach to it, that it can all be of no consequence, and we should not interfere in any cultural policy whatsoever; all sorts of others just have to decide for themselves. I do not share that view. I think that a Minister for Culture should have cultural policy views. So we disagree on that. Then it is also a strange call that, if we have any problems, we can just negotiate directly with the Danish Radio's management and discuss with them. Apparently, the minister doesn't want to get involved in this since we're going to discuss it with the Danish Radio's leadership. I think that's weird. But since it is that we are being reproached that we will not say anything to the director of Denmark Radio when she sends an email to us, I just want to say that I got the email • I have just looked after • kl. 15.39, 11⁄2 hour plus 3 minutes later I had sent an answer to Maria Rønn, where I very carefully explained my position on the matter. So she certainly got an answer very quickly and very carefully from me. I would just like to say in conclusion that the Minister should ask the Danish Radio to participate actively in finding a solution. That is to say, an overview of the funding possibilities available under the public service contract as it stands today and the media agreement that we have concluded, because, of course, there are plenty of funding that can meet the proposal for adoption that we are now a majority in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145204	After all, we have had cases in the media group before, which have been more specific in relation to individual parts, during the period of the agreement, for example. about the archive conditions, where we have asked the Danish Radio to come in and explain their plans etc. etc. We have also had it in other areas. I am just standing here and very sorry that I have never known a majority of the character that I know today. I haven't been yelling at either of you, sir. Lars Barfoed or the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I have known their position from day one. However, there are other people's views, which I would very much have liked to have known earlier than is the case. It's a regret I have. I am sorry to say what I mean and what I have in mind, but I will continue to do so. This is not an insult to other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145302	Mrs Mette Bock for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145307	Thank you. I would very much like to warn against the fact that we, as parties, are directly beginning to talk to DR. I think that is a really bad idea. But it is not certain that the Minister meant it as hard as it was said, at least I think it is an incredibly bad idea. On the other hand, I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to next week's meeting or meetings if there are more. I would just like to say to the Minister that I do not think there is anything wrong with finding out that the situation has changed and that we must therefore do something else. We can't roll back time. The minister chose to be informed that this saving was under way, and that was it. But the situation is just different today, and that is why I hope that the DR will now be so kind as to help the Minister so that the Minister can come to the meetings next week and we can be able to close this case so that it does not further develop in the incredibly unfortunate way that it has developed. So I would just like to ask the Minister if the Minister would be willing to accept any suggestions that might come from DR during the coming week.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145421	In principle, I always accept proposals that come from wherever they come from. They're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145429	Mrs. Mette Bock? No. Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Then the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Alex Ahrendtsen, opportunity to finish off.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145448	It has been an exciting and uplifting debate, but indeed with a somewhat depressing and depressing ending. I was actually hoping that the Minister would put the sword down and reach out to the parties that have repeatedly raised it themselves. Instead, we have experienced a fighting minister who keeps on going. We have seen a minister who dwells on the past, who talks about 8 September and 11 November, instead of noticing and taking note of the fact that there are seven out of eight parties in this Chamber who have said down here that they want to maintain the Entertainment Orchestra. Then I would just like to say to the Minister: you are allowed to become wiser. I was in the hall yesterday, L 79. After all, it became very clear that there were parties that had changed their position from a year ago to yesterday. It happens. You are allowed to become wiser, and some parties have become wiser. That is why I think that the Minister should stop talking about the past and then decide that there is now a majority that will clearly preserve the orchestra, that there are seven out of eight parties that will preserve it. That is why it is the Minister's responsibility now to find a solution and, in cooperation with the DR, we have no problem with that. Find the solution so that the orchestra can continue. Once upon a time, they were radical cultural radicals. Culture meant something to them. And Danmarks Radio's Entertainment Orchestra is therefore an important part of Danish culture. It bridges between the entertaining and the classic, between the popular and the more fine cultural. They bring in people who wouldn't normally go to orchestral music. They entertain along with our popular artists, they do everything we want. We're not gonna shut that down. We need We have an obligation to culture, Danmarks Radio has an obligation. That's why they get all these billions. And that's why we can't just say that it has something to do with arm's length business that DR has to figure out for itself. No, I have been elected because I have a position on culture, and I expect the Minister to respect that. The same applies to my colleagues. They have also been elected because they have an attitude towards culture. Therefore, dear Minister, the Danish People's Party has been ready from the beginning, from day one. We have made our position known from day one: we will preserve this orchestra. My call to the Minister must now be: Get out of the bush, lay the sword, have a talk with Danmarks Radio, come up with a constructive proposal for a solution. Don't try to drive in a wedge, don't try to interpret this text of adoption, because it's actually quite clear: we want to preserve the orchestra! That would be to the honour of the Minister. She has been trying now for months, she has used her arsenal of experience to drive this wedge between the parties, and it has been skillfully done. I recognise the Minister's skill in this area, but now is the time for debate and for us to find a solution together. This debate has clearly shown this, and the vote on the proposal for adoption tomorrow will also show that. To the other Members of Parliament and rapporteurs, I would just like to express my thanks for the great debate. Our hope must be that we will shortly be able to inform the talented members of the Entertainment Orchestra that the orchestra will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145847	The debate isn't over yet. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ozlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145852	Now the rapporteur says that the minister is trying so skillfully to insert a wedge into this so-called majority. I have noted two different sentences on how to save the orchestra. One belongs to Mr. Lars Barfoed: You have to find the savings somewhere else. The other one belongs to Mr. Jørgen Arbo-Bæhr from Enhedslisten: No, there should be no savings elsewhere. So I just want to be specific and factual: do these two sentences sound the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145932	It is now up to the Minister to find a solution. There is a majority to preserve the orchestra. We're eight different parties. The seven, including Özlem Sara Cekics, have said that the orchestra must be preserved. It's the minister's hard lot to find a way with the DR.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145952	Özlem Sara Cekic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203145953	That's not what I asked. I asked specifically about the two wordings, because they continue to present it as if there were complete agreement. After all, there is no full agreement. After all, some of us would like to see the entertainment orchestra survive free of charge, and some of us think that it costs something. That's why I'm gonna ask you one more time. Do these two phrases sound the same to you: "You must find the savings somewhere else, and "No, there must be no savings elsewhere"? Are those two identical sentences? Is that two similar solutions? Is there anything that indicates that you can form a majority based on these two sentences?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150041	The rapporteur is trying to make a Marianne Jelved, but it is not very successful. The minister makes it far more elegant when she tries to drive in a wedge. I think the rapporteur should come to the debate instead. It is the Minister who has to provide a solution, and I will not go into this rather plundered attempt to drip wormwood into the cup at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150105	Thank you to all the rapporteurs. That brings the urgent question to a close. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place tomorrow, Thursday 4 December 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150124	We shall now proceed to Question Time, and I shall tell you that the question which Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen has asked for no. 19, and it is to the Minister for Business and Growth that the agenda is deleted. We are then going to answer questions sent to the ministers, and the first is from Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150154	Does the Minister consider that the availability rules in the benefit system are a greater barrier to getting people into the labour market than the fact that the arrangement of the Danish benefit system means that 46,000 Danes have less than 1,000 DKK. In addition to working rather than on public support, according to figures from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150216	Thank you for the question. I believe in a system built around rights and duties. It is not right to renounce the obligation to be available for the labour market because it is believed that the benefits of being in a job are not worthwhile. We have strengthened the availability requirements of the employment reform, and if there are still problems with the availability of the unemployed, then we must do even more, and then the rules and, above all, their enforcement should be tightened. The obligation of availability must ensure that the unemployed receive any work they may be offered. I am also concerned that work must pay off, and I am therefore delighted that our reforms have helped to create better economic incentives, for example with the tax reform, which makes it better worthwhile to work, including for people with low incomes. And the focus must continue to be on economic incentives so that it is better to get to work. But I must also say that there will be unemployed for whom stronger availability and financial incentives are not enough to get into jobs. That is, for example, the case. the unemployed, who have problems other than unemployment, i.e. social and psychological problems. This requires a completely different effort, based on the individual. Therefore, the problem is more nuanced, but whether you think the incentive is strong enough or not, you should take the work you are offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150339	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150340	I fully agree that we should be available for the labour market, and I do not believe that I can be accused of having ever had a different attitude. At least I did not hear that when I was Minister for Employment. But there's something that might surprise me a little. If I may say so, I think the Minister is starting a little backwards on this. One thing is that we must have a labour market where we are available when we have to, if we want public support and public services, but something else is to create a labour market where it is always worthwhile to work. That is why I think the Minister is starting a little backwards on that. I have to say that I think there is something wrong in a system where barely 50,000 people are given less than DKK 1,000. every month out of work. And I do not quite understand that, as a radical, one is, I think, somewhat one-eyed about it. Because I very much believe that the Minister, at least if you look at the newspaper article to which I am referring here, is very one-sided in terms of the rules of availability. I therefore also think that it is a question of creating a labour market in which it is always worthwhile to work, and I think that the Minister is failing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150505	If you look at the decisions taken during this government's lifetime, it is of course the case that incentives to work have increased. The number of those we normally consider to be those who have a weak incentive to work is considerably reduced over the coming years with the tax reform that has been made. And, of course, I have not signalled anything else today but that it is also a relevant discussion that continues. But what puzzles me about the question, and not least the wording here at the end, is that it is of course as if there is still an understanding in the Left that people who are unemployed do not take jobs that are offered to them because the economic incentive is not sufficient. I'm surprised. Because what we have in Denmark is a strong social safety net, a high level of compensation, because we want there to be security in the labour market, that is to say that you should not leave home and home because you become unemployed. That is, of course, what is now being put at risk in some way, because it is said that it is a major problem that there is not a sufficient incentive to work. That is what is in the question today. And that is why it ends in the same place that we started, namely that my opinion is that whatever the incentive is, you have an obligation to take the work you can get if you are available. That's how our system works, and that's the only way it can be connected when we want it to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150628	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150628-2	For my sake, the Minister does not have to try to be polemical about these things, because at no time can the Minister have been in doubt about this, so I would certainly ask the Minister to say exactly where and when that Left and myself have always held on to the fact that if you have to be available for the labour market, and you do so if you get social benefits, you must also be available for the labour market, and that means that you have to take the work that lies just ahead. But it just doesn't change the slightly bigger discussion... and I assume that the Minister can handle both discussions at once... namely, creating a labour market where it always pays to work. And that is where I think the Minister is failing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150716	Well, it's not me mixing it up, it's mixed up in today's questions. Because the question is whether I think it is a bigger problem that there is not enough incentive to work than that people are not sufficiently available. And there it is just that I am saying that it is difficult not to get the impression that it is then the questioner's view that it is a bigger problem. It's just that I'm saying that for me, it's not like because you have a little financial incentive, it's okay. not to take the work you can get. I am simply saying that I cannot be left with anything other than that view when a question is asked as to whether it is really more important to concentrate on the issue of incentives than on what is available. What we have done on the part of the government is so that it is beyond question to organise the work on tax reform, which, fortunately, the Left is involved in, and which means that today and in the years to come there will be more and more people who have an increasing incentive to work. That is why we have shown that we also take that part of the discussion seriously. This can be seen from our findings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150815	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150815-2	The minister says you can't do anything but leave it in the belief that this is about which problem is the biggest. With the intellectual capacity that I have always attributed to the Minister, I think he can deal with both issues at once. On the one hand, of course, we must be available for the labour market, there can be no doubt about that at all, but on the other hand there is what the Radical Left has had a very great interest and has acted on for many years, at least to try to create a labour market in which it is always worthwhile to work. I think the Minister has just left a bit of that, and that is what I think it is regrettable here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150858	I therefore have to go back to the question that has been asked, namely whether I believe that the availability rules in the benefit system are a greater barrier than the fact that the arrangement of the Danish benefit system means that there is a large group of Danes who have little incentive. It is the questioner who asks me to weigh the two issues against each other, which is why it is left with the experience that it is apparently also the Left's experience that there is a balance between the two issues. There is no such thing on the part of the government. We have made a tax reform which makes it better to work by targeting tax cuts to the lowest income groups, which means that we increase employment over the years and that we significantly reduce the proportion of Danes with a weak incentive to work. But alongside that, it is still our clear view that it is important to ensure that the rules of availability are enforced, because whether you have a strong or weak economic incentive, you have to be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203150956	The question is closed. Before we go to the next, which is also by Mrs Inger Løjberg to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, I should just like to inform and clarify that after the question has been read out, there are 2 minutes for each and then the speaking time is 1⁄2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151014	Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151017	With reference to the Minister's request for both a new cash benefits reform and the unemployment benefit reform, does the Minister believe that these reforms should address the fact that, even after the tax reform has been fully phased in, 230,000 Danes will have a weak incentive to work, and will the Minister state whether it is an agreed government which, if so, is behind this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151044	It is then the third Wednesday in a row, a little hat trick in which I have had the opportunity to answer questions of that nature, and I can say that neither my attitude nor that of the government has changed in the course of the three weeks, but I would be happy to reply again, because the short of the long term is that fewer people have to be passively supported and more have to be in jobs. All of our reforms in the area of cash benefits, early retirement, sickness benefit, employment and taxation contribute very much to this. However, this does not mean that we have finished making reforms that give more people an active life with education and employment. We are engaged in the final round of negotiations on a refund restructuring that gives the municipalities a greater incentive to find the effort that works for the individual unemployed. In the new year, we can look forward to the Carsten Kock Committee coming up with the second round of their recommendations for better active action, and the benefit commission is also barring with their recommendations in 2015 so that there will be ample opportunity to work on labour market reforms. Then there is the question of whether the number of people with relatively weak economic incentives should be reduced even more than is the case with the tax and cash benefits reform. I would like that if it could be done within a financially responsible framework and without compromising the social balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151157	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151159	Now I think that, as a minister, we should be careful, as if we were ridiculous, that this has been asked several times, because it could actually be because we have not received an answer from the government. That's how simple things can sometimes be, and that's what's the essence of this thing today. We had a little discussion with the Prime Minister yesterday. We should not speak ill of someone who is not here, but perhaps I would have hoped a little that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior was a little clearer today than the Prime Minister, who, as it were, has the habit of not answering what we are asking. But enough about it. I would just like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior whether the reforms that we have now carried out together, and I think this is a good thing, meet the whole level of ambition of the Radical Left and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. If we look at it when it's all phased in, including tax reform, I think we'll be there by approx. 2022, but by that time around a quarter of a million Danes are still gone, who have a very, very small incentive to work. Then I am well aware that the Minister said that there should be fewer both on public support and more in jobs. But is the ambition like filled with a quarter of a million Danes, for whom there is only a very small incentive to work in 2022? I think that this is a poor ambition, and it is certainly not as I know the Radical Left. I am, of course, familiar with the Radical Left as a party that has such a focus on providing if you have the opportunities and capacity to do so. So I'm a little surprised that the ambition isn't higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151400	We can talk about things like that. It surprises me that we could make a tax reform under the VK government, which did not address this problem more directly, because when that is the number mentioned here by Mrs Inger Nøjberg, it is of course because the tax reform that this government has faced is quite significantly reducing the number by about a third, compared to what we took over. That is why, over the years, more and more people will be given a stronger and stronger incentive to work, and that is just the actual conditions. But that is why we can confirm each other that this is a major issue. What I just want to add is two things. One is that, fortunately, the vast majority of those who have a weak incentive to work do so anyway. And it's important to keep in mind. This is due, among other things, to: What we talked about in the previous question is that we have to be available, whether strong or weak, and that is why, in this rather one-eyed discussion, I am just concerned about whether we forget the other side of the matter, namely that we want a strong social safety net, which makes it possible to be safe in the labour market, even if the company has to close and we have to find another job. That is why my point is that it is vital that we ensure that people are available for the labour market and that this applies, whether you are in the group that has a weak incentive or in the group that has a strong incentive, even though, of course, we also want to make new reforms in the future which address this issue even more than we have done. I see no problem in making that known.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151532	The Minister's speaking time is 1⁄2 minutes, but it turned into 11⁄2 minutes. Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151537	Then I'll be extremely brief, so we'll catch up. Can the Minister confirm that during the debates which have taken place, for example, the Left has always been able to do so? in the labour market area, has fought to increase the incentive to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151554-2	What I can confirm is that with the policy pursued under this government there will be a gradual reduction over the coming years in the proportion of Danes who have a weak incentive to work. This is not least due to the tax reform and a number of the other reforms that we have made, which at any rate means that if we are concerned about this problem, which we are approaching the end of this parliamentary term, it is better than it was when we entered it. After all, I was not present at the time when tax reform was being carried out under the auspices of the VK government, but I can only say that at that time the issue was not so high on the agenda that it was seriously addressed. But why not just conclude by hand-shaking each other that this is an important issue, which must of course also be pursued in the years to come, just as we in this government have done with a number of the reforms that the Left has fortunately chosen to take part in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151642	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151642-2	But if the Minister does not want to confirm it, it is probably because the Minister just does not want to confirm it. I kind of get that. But the Minister may as well confirm it, but otherwise I can at least do it, even though I may not be a witness of truth in that sense. But I can at least say that the Left has worked tirelessly to ensure that working in Denmark is always worthwhile, and we continue to do so. So the Minister can have that handshake. But does the Minister honestly think it is reasonable that 17,700 Danes should bring money to work every day, so to speak, because it is not at all worth working for them? They will get more in public support if they just stayed home from work. Minister, that's not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151724	The minister to the last line, which is 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151725	I would just like to stress that if we are concerned with the issue that I see the Left and Mrs Inger Løjberg are and as I am, we must be pleased that today we have gone a long way further than we were at the beginning of the parliamentary term. That is because we are also concerned about this issue. What is just important for me to say is that we also want a strong social safety net that makes you feel safe, even if you lose your job, that someone is holding hands under you, so to speak. But that also requires that we have a look at the obligation to make available. That is what I have been trying to put on the agenda recently. I think, in fact, that those ambitions can go hand in hand, and I hope that together we can achieve more of the kind we have done, as it seems to be something that both sides are concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151812	Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and also to the questioner. Well, then, sir. Jacob Jensen a question to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151830	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that it is an act of financial responsibility to include a financing contribution from a repayment of the EU contribution of 700 million? kr., when it is not yet clear when the money will be paid out?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151844	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203151845	Thank you very much. The short answer is yes, and the slightly longer answer is that when the government entered into the agreement with SF and Enhedslisten on a Finance Act for 2015, it was considered that the Danish EU contribution would be reduced by 700 million. kr. in relation to the budgeting of the financial bill itself for 2015. We still consider this to be the case, because it is the case that the amending budgets for the European Union's 2014 budget, which contain reductions in our EU contribution, were not adopted before the deadline for 13 November. This makes it clear that the Danish EU contribution in 2015 will be reduced by 700 million. kr. Exactly as provided. As always, there will be changes in the Danish EU contribution in 2015 as a result of new amending budgets etc., and this is quite usual. But it is the government's obligation and the commitment of the Minister of Finance, and it would also apply to a bourgeois finance minister, if we were ever to have the misfortune to get back to being given as fairly an estimate as possible of the EU contribution and budgeting on that basis. And that is what we have done with the financial agreement we have concluded. Then it is fortunate that a ritzautelegram has just been entered while we have been waiting and drinking coffee, which actually shows that the European Commission has sent a small billion kroner to Denmark following the first decisions taken on the revision of the EU's budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152013	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152014	Well, that's new information in the case. We're glad to hear that. The reason why we are asking the question, and that is why I am glad that the Minister can inform us about the ongoing developments in the major political negotiations south of here, is, of course, that we in the Left are interested in ensuring that the government is, and I know that the government is, after all, we must give it to the government, but we may look a little differently at how sure these sources of funding are then that the very basis of funding which is the basis of a government's financial law at any time is on as certain a basis as it can be. We also had another discussion on a little the same subject last week about some of the growth estimates that are being applied to some of the oil prices that are being applied. Now we try to look at some of the other elements as there are. There, we seem to have until 5 seconds ago I take of course the Minister of Finance's words for good goods... had a feeling that this money isn't safe. But if this ritzautelegram is for believers, I have no further questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152115	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152116	Well, that's quite fine, and thank you for that. Well, the practice is that we are negotiating, I think it is seven amending budgets at once plus the 2015 budget itself, plus a backward-looking statisticalally generated GDP audit. After all, all this is going to be a net result for Denmark in financial terms. This is the task of the Ministry of Finance both with me, and I think it was also with my predecessor, and it is also with the one who had to come after me one day, at the head of making the Finance Act, which is usually done before all of this has fallen into place, and it happens quite often, to make as far as possible a fair estimate of where the net result lies. I have examined this with great thoroughness with my poor mental powers for the Committee on European Affairs, where fortunately we managed to get a very broad mandate to go on the basis of this estimate to look after Denmark's interests as well as possible. So I think it has to be said that it's handled just as usual in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152212	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152213	I'll sign for that. But what has just been our errand and is still our errand, and that is why it is really good if we can put a fling on this point, is precisely to eliminate some of the uncertainties that we can eliminate, and at least ask about the sources of funding that we are operating with in the financial agreement, which we are unfortunately not part of. Because we would have liked to have entered into a financial law agreement with the government, as the Minister of Finance knows, and so certainly the Finance Act had also looked differently, but that is a political assessment. However, as far as the content is concerned, we must be as sure as we can now be that the sources of funding that then lie are sufficient, and then we can fight politically on how to distribute among the opportunities that lie within that framework. That is why we have among other things. I would point out growth estimates and oil prices, and there will also be other elements later in this debate, but I am very pleased if the Minister of Finance can now say that we can put our feet on the point of EU contributions. So I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152307	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152308	Yes, I think that the information is, of course, about what has happened most recently in the case, namely the positive thing that we have been sent right on the bottom of a billion. kr., and so, of course, how these things usually happen. Moreover, it did so under the bourgeois government, but the Parliamentary Chamber can be an excellent place to make wrapups of this kind of procedure. After all, what is the government's duty, the duty of the Ministry of Finance, is to give the most accurate estimates of a wide range of parallel budgetary negotiation processes in the European Union. That is where we need to assess what the net result will be. We can then negotiate financial law on that basis, and I do not think that is new in any way. And if we've had it refreshed today, I'm only happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152346	Jacob Jensen. Jacob Jensen (V): It's nice when problems are solved while they're being discussed, and the words create what they mention. The next question is also to the Minister for Finance, and that is what Mr. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152409	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister consider that it is realistic and in line with the government's so-called precautionary principle to include revenue in the 2015 Finance Act for the advertising tax when the bill has not even been submitted for consultation yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152424	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152425	Thank you for that question too. First of all, I would just like to say that, in accordance with the precautionary principle, the government has, of course, allocated crowns to funding the green cheque supplement that was introduced back in 2013, even if the advertising fee has been delayed. The bill put forward on the advertising tax was adopted in December 2012 and the entry into force of the tax has then waited for the approval of the European Commission, as is often the case with such proposals. What we have been saying all along is that the advertising tax should only enter into force once it has been approved by the European Union, and it has now been. This advertising fee was approved by the European Commission on 9 June 2014. Therefore, it can be put into effect once a few technical adjustments have been made to the tax. The overall structure of the tax has been established since December 2012. That is why we have a bill with the technical changes on the legislative programme that the Folketing is now working on. It is my expectation that the tax will enter into force by mid-2015 and therefore revenue will also be included in the Finance Act for 2015. If it turns out that a financing element cannot enter into force as provided, and that applies to all financing elements, not just this one, then the government is dealing with it in the context of the ongoing priorities within the fiscal objectives and framework to which we are absolutely committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152548	Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152548-2	I would now like to hope that a ritzautelegram will be put in place during the debate here that the government will take the tax off the table; it may well be that the Minister for Finance has timed it at this point too. You can hope. But the fact that we think this is relevant is because the advertising tax has lived a little tumultuous life, and because it has not yet come into existence because the Commission ignored it; it has not even been consulted yet. And if you are going to have a proper consultation period, plus that the Folketing would also like to have 30 days to deal with it, then it is going to be difficult to have half effect from 2015. After all, the tax minister has promised that the industry will have a minimum of 1⁄2 years to adapt before the tax comes into force. So we can already send the finance minister on overtime to restructure something. It just emphasizes the point that we think it is a little too optimistic to include these effects when they have not even been adopted in the Folketing yet, especially when there has been the doubt that there is and the doubt is not over yet. After all, the Minister for Culture may now have to notify the Media Support Act because it is being de facto amended as a result of the Advertising Tax Act that comes on the table here. So it may be further postponed. But does the Minister not think it appropriate to wait for a tax to be included as an advertising tax when it has not yet been adopted in the Folketing and when there has been this particular case with the Commission, which does not seem to be over yet, because there may be a new legislative proposal to be notified? It may take some time to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152732	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152733	No, what we are doing is entirely in line with the precautionary principle that we have introduced, which did not exist before the government took office there was no precautionary principle. That is why we regularly crossed the borders to which we had committed ourselves and received EU recommendations and all sorts of things. The rest of us don't. It is a very simple principle: we must have a majority in favour of funding before we can count on it. And that's what we have on this point. If the questioner would perhaps think back to the tax reform agreement made between the Left and the government, then we also budgeted there with the revenue from a number of sources of funding, which had by no means been put into consultation or anything else, but on which we had a political agreement. We considered this to be the case, and it was true of all parties, including the Left, to be a very good respect for the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152818	Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152819	The difference, I would say to the Minister for Finance, is that new bills have emerged in relation to this bill. And, as has also been the case with previous legislative proposals put forward by the government, state companies, in other words, something in which the State is the direct owner, have been charged with high costs. And we know from Post Denmark that this bill alone will mean that they will lose 70-80 million. kr. on the market. We have not chosen to count on that, and it is money that we are already lacking. After all, we have not chosen to budget for this, and that is an information that has come after us. So that just underlines my point again. Well, wouldn't the Minister of Finance look at it again? The revenues are fluctuating, and this therefore underlines the point that the government is equally quite optimistic about budgeting what has not yet been adopted and which there is a great deal of doubt about being adopted at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152909	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152910	Nah, that doesn't underline the point; it emphasizes the point that the Confederal Group of the Left is working a lot to create that impression, but it is a wrong impression. Because the truth is, we're in control of meeting these deficit limits. The only point worth noting is that it is in stark contrast to what we took over, where everything was budgeted and not really dealt with, whether it was something that would bring us into a carambola with EU rules, which, of course, meant that we crossed the limits to which we had committed ourselves and got a recommendation to rectify, which has then been left to the rest of us. That is the reality. The reality is, of course, that the Left would very much like to budget for this type of revenue in connection with agreements, the Left itself, where you then have a completely pragmatic approach to dealing with any problems that may be involved in putting them into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203152957	Then we have a co-questioner. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153001	The reason why the advertising fee is particularly interesting is that it is, after all, the result of the financial agreement made by the government for 2012 with Enhedslisten. It was just that there were expectations from the government that the advertising tax would bring a revenue of 400 million. kr. That is why something has happened and it seems that it does not really affect the Finance Minister. Due to the provisional decision of the EU, the proceeds are more than halved, and if you recognise what it means for Post Denmark, the amount is even less. I just need to hear the Minister for Finance's answer to the information that came out on Monday that this affects Post Denmark by 70 million. kr., and whether this will give rise to a review by the Minister of Finance of what the net proceeds are actually on the advertising tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153055	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153055-2	In other words, what is happening on an ongoing basis, regardless of what may be the assessment of revenue from different tax sources, is that I, as Finance Minister, ensure that we comply with the rules to which we have committed ourselves. And that is exactly what has happened since 2012, when this was first agreed and agreed, namely that we have remained within the limits to which we have committed ourselves. It is, of course, that the economic policy we have pursued has got Denmark out of the EU recommendation we had made, because we had a bourgeois government with the Left at the head and with a Left Finance Minister who was responsible, which is not that which is the difference. That's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153142	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153142-2	It is quite important to know whether this is because the government has acted or whether the government has been in a situation where it has not been necessary to act because the burden on budgets has not been as great as in the past. That is why it is vital to know that when the government had budgeted 400 million before. kr. I don't remember. The Minister may be able to inform you. Therefore, as I remember, there was no alternative funding. You had a little more air in the budgets, but you spent so much more money than you had funding for, and that just means that the hump you push in front of you is rising. That's what we could see happened in 2013, and that's what we fear will happen again in 2015. The money doesn't come in, but among other things. Because of the so-called pension fin, it may be that the government stays within the ceiling, but more money is spent than funding has been provided for. And I guess that's what the government's precautionary principle is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153246	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153247	I'm afraid that's all wrong. Well, the government's gonna make sure we stay within the limits to which we've committed ourselves. The bourgeois government we took over from didn't. That is the fundamental difference. It can therefore be said that whether it is this case or another case where things are developing in a different direction than one had estimated, hoped, planned after, adopted, agreed, what may be happening in reality and in politics, then what one can always lean on is that we make sure that, overall, we stay within the limits to which we have committed ourselves, in contrast to the civil government that we took over. It is indeed the case that we have had to act, even quite actively, to ensure that Denmark took the decisions that had to be taken in order for us to come out of that recommendation, Mr President. Claus Hjort Frederiksen had inflicted upon us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153332	Sir. Mads Rørvig, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153334	Just bear in mind that what the Minister of Finance says that neither Lars Løkke Rasmussen nor Claus Hjort Frederiksen could solve as finance ministers is what the Minister of Finance could solve in 12 minutes. And we all know how that plan worked out. However, the Minister for Finance does not find it problematic to start by budgeting that this will bring about 400 million. And that we cannot even get an answer as to how much we expect to get into this advertising tax? We know that it has been halved once, we know that Post Denmark said on Monday that it would also cost the state 70 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153411	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153412	It certainly depends on whether economic policy as such is controlled. We can, of course, take another obvious example: the Left Finance Bill, which budgets 1.5 billion. kr. by asking regions and municipalities at very short notice to outsource something more, which they all say no to, and which would require the reopening of the municipal agreement that has been concluded and the budgets that have been laid down. There I would personally, if I were in that situation, therefore, had engaged me in the Left ■ be deeply concerned about whether my economic policy was linked, because I do not see how that gap should be covered with other initiatives. But in my situation as a representative of the government, I've got things under control. We respect the limits to which we have committed ourselves, as opposed to our predecessors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153453	The next question is also to the Minister for Finance. It's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153501	The question is: Does the Minister find it problematic to have to postpone the agreed introduction of the wholesale model as part of a reform of the electricity market until 1 March 2016 to ensure that Denmark remains within the deficit limit of the EU Stability and Growth Pact in 2015 because the Minister has not taken this into account in the 2015 Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153518	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153519	Thank you very much. In the 2012 Energy Agreement, it was agreed that we would promote competition in the electricity market by introducing the so-called wholesale model, where all contact with electricity customers is handled by the electricity traders. In 2012, when the Danish Parliament adopted the wholesale model, it was chosen to transfer the tax liability to the State from the network companies to the trading companies. However, since trading companies can be less robust and can be operated from abroad, this involves a greater risk of tax losses. Therefore, it was also assumed that an insurance scheme would be set up. It turned out, however, that in practice the envisaged insurance scheme could not be implemented in order to safeguard the State's revenue. That is why we have had to find an alternative to the insurance scheme, which guarantees state tax revenue, but at the same time maintains the positive effects of the wholesale model on competition. The revised wholesale model, presented by the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building to the Conciliation Committee behind the Energy Agreement, has now succeeded. The revised model maintains the duty on the State of the network companies, which, of course, significantly limits the risk in relation to the revenue from the levy. Trading companies will then maintain customer contact and customers will be able to accept only a bill in the future. That is why we expect stronger competition in the electricity market in the future, and this will be of particular benefit to small, private consumers. The fact that it has been necessary to postpone the entry into force of the wholesale model from October 2015 to March 2016 is due to several considerations. A delay gives the industry more time to implement the revised wholesale model, and it should be seen in the light of the fact that it has taken longer than expected to find a good alternative to the initially envisaged insurance scheme, and it has also played into account that the revised wholesale model is expected to provide a one-off loss for the Treasury in the order of 1 billion. kr. It is, of course, difficult at the last minute to accommodate new higher costs, and therefore there is nothing new about prioritising when you, as the government, conduct a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153719	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153721	Thank you. I think the Minister for Finance could have been a little more precise, because in what has been sent over to the Danish Parliament it says: "The aim of postponing the introduction of the wholesale model until 1 March 2016 is to avoid the expected one-off deficit in the introduction of the wholesale model of 1 billion. kr. falls in 2015 to ensure that Denmark stays within the deficit limit of the EU Stability and Growth Pact in 2015. The government cannot implement the legislative catalogue which has been sent to the Folketing, in which the proposal is being implemented this year. It does not say that it should be postponed. It's gonna come later. That is to say, after the government has put forward its Finance Act, it finds that what is in the legislative catalogue cannot be implemented because there is simply no room for it. I think that, in relation to the government's precautionary principle, is a confession case. I understand now that there is a completely new interpretation of the precautionary principle, but we must then come back to that. But how sure a hand on the steering wheel does the Minister of Finance think that it is an expression of the Finance Minister presenting his draft Finance Act in August, the Prime Minister presenting a legislative catalogue, and subsequently the government must back up its own proposal because there is simply no room for implementing what was planned because it will create problems in terms of compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact limits? It's a confession case. The government has not ensured that there is room in the government's own draft budget to implement the government's own legislative programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153906	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153907	This seems to me to be a relatively bizarre discussion. In other words, it seems to me that it is entirely beside the dial to blame the government for the fact that, just as everyone demands and wants, the government is making sure that we keep on the right side of the borders that we have committed ourselves to, as opposed to the predecessors from whom we took it and which we have had to clean up after. That's one. The second is that, as the answer clearly shows, for purely professional reasons, we have had to do something different from what was agreed at the time, which is causing the state a one-time loss of 1 billion. kr. This is, of course, taken seriously when pursuing a responsible economic policy. That is, of course, the difference between the way things are running now and the way things were going before.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153947	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203153948	I have to say that it is more bizarre that the government does not implement its own policy because it does not have the money to do so. Well, the government had a plan to implement the wholesale model in 2015, but the government has then chosen to make a finance law that doesn't allow the government to implement its own law programme. It is something strange, then, that, in order to comply with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, the government has to push some of its own spending proposals, which were well known when the Finance Act was laid out in the Folketing. It is then a confession case that too much money has been spent in other ways, that there has not been any room to implement what is quite expected, that is, that the government can afford to implement its own legislative programme. But that is the way in which the Minister of Finance stays within the framework, that is to say not to implement his own policy. That's a clear speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154044	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154044-2	I do not know whether the questioner can hear what the questioner himself is really getting himself into here. What is happening on the part of the government is what is called priority. That is what the rest of the Danish Parliament wants to see from the Left, i.e. a suggestion of how to give priority to the many things said by the Left about economic policy. The government does so from day to day, from year to year and from month to month, so that we stay within the framework of what we have committed ourselves to. When it comes to this excellent wholesale model, which has become a more expensive undertaking than we originally had imagined, when we agreed on it, yes, it will also become a reality quite in line with what we have planned, quite in accordance with the requirements and the limits we keep to in economic terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154126	Sir. Mads Rørvig as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154128	After all, it is going to be a little exquisite for the Finance Minister, because you choose to change this wholesale model, or at least the phasing-in of it, because you say: okay, we are under pressure from the European Union, and we have to fulfil some obligations. This is happening at the same time as the Finance Minister opens the financial law negotiations by saying that there are 1 to 1.5 billion. kr., which Enhedslisten and SF can play with. This is the economic priority given by the Minister for Finance, and it does say a little about how exposed the government is and how desperate the government is that it has to postpone arrangements in order not to enter a control procedure, because one has to have enough sauce for one's parliamentary basis. Does the Minister of Finance not think that it is gambling a little with the Danish economy to say that you have to postpone some things because you have to please your parliamentary basis? That is a sign that there is a little unhealthy in the Danish economy when you have to make such fake tricks to get to the finish of your financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154238	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154239	This is obviously something we must make a firm habit of on Wednesday that the Left Party should try a little electoral rhetoric about economic policy in Denmark. That doesn't change the facts at all. Nobody's been tasting anyone in this connection. Moreover, I do not think that it is possible to trigger a real mood of satisfaction in relation to the parliamentary basis of the government. There is a priority within the responsible framework, with money for example. better treatment for cancers, better treatment for runners and a stronger health care system. I think that is very, very important. In relation to whether it is financially responsible or not, I would say that it remains entirely within the framework to which we have committed ourselves, because we have the ability to prioritise. The really sharp contrast between what is now being made responsible and what has been made irresponsible in the past, where a political difference can be made. After all, you can ask all the questions you want, just as many Wednesdays are left before elections may be held, but what will remain in the left-wing questions is that what you are asking of the government and getting from the government, namely that we respect the borders, you were not able to deliver yourself. This is one of the reasons why we have had such a tight framework for economic policy in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154351	Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154352	When the Minister for Finance talks about former irresponsible economic plans, I assume he refers to the 12-minute plan he himself helped to draw up. But I think it is a little thought-provoking that one is so far out to please one's parliamentary basis that one says: here is 1 billion. kr., You guys can play with the finance negotiations. In order to finance it, you have to make some fake tricks so that you don't take Danish economy out over the abyss. I find that worrying, sir. Minister of Finance. Then I will inform the Minister for Finance that he will still be able to please me with the ritzautelegram on the advertising tax if we can have it abolished before the question session here is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154434	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154435	I don't have a reputation for being a lecturer, so I don't think it's gonna be a disappointment on that point. I just want to say that I would like to discuss all these things in any context. There is the difference between us and economic policy and the Left and economic policy that we remain within the limits of the requirements. It is also what has done that a large number of independent economists have repeatedly held that what is now going on economically is something more responsible than what was going on economically before we had a change of government, that is, under the previous government. So I guess that's not gonna be the end of all these discussions, no matter what angle you take them from.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154516	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154519	I think that the central point is that the legislative catalogue which the government has sent to the Danish Parliament may be implemented. In this context, I would just like to know whether the Minister for Finance intends to postpone other proposals that the government has announced to Parliament that it intends to present here in the current parliamentary assembly, a large number of which are also costly for next year's Finance Act because implementation of what was planned will bring Denmark into conflict with the Stability and Growth Pact. Well, it's okay to shoot a gross model because it ensures that we don't break the Stability and Growth Pact. I just need to ask the Minister for Finance if there are other elements of the legislative programme that like the same fate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154606	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154608	Nah, there is complete control of economic policy in Denmark now as opposed to in the past. However, we are constantly keeping within the limits to which we have committed ourselves, and that means that we are constantly giving priority to this. I hope that will be the case even if we once have a bourgeois government. Otherwise, we would in any case be violating the budgetary law we ourselves have agreed with me and voted in favour of here in the Folketing. So I would very much hope that you take home with you in the Left Group Room that the Budget Act must be observed at all times, even when it requires priority. And if you look critically at what the Left itself has presented, I find it very difficult to see exactly how you will be able to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154641	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is Mr. Kim Christiansen, and he also has a question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154652	Thank you, sir. President. The question is as follows: what is the Minister's view that SKI (State and Municipal Procurement Service) has created a new framework agreement with a number of airlines where SAS receives relatively few routes, and where, for example, Norwegian has received several intercontinental routes, although its intercontinental routes are registered in Ireland, which among other things. does Norwegian allow you to fly with completely foreign crews on the aircraft and thus avoid paying Nordic wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154721	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154723	As I see it posted here, I allow myself to try to answer questions S 395 and 397 together. I do not know whether the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament will go completely wrong if I try to do so, but they are a little bit about the same thing. At least I'm trying, so we'll see if it can be handled or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154739	That is entirely based on the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203154741	Okay. But I lean confidently on the judge of the questioner as to whether this is a satisfactory way of doing it or not. In any case, both issues are about the government's attitude to the flight agreement concluded by the State and Municipal Procurement Service, which is commonly referred to as SKI. And I should like to start by emphasising that the government is very serious about the issue of social dumping, among other things. because social dumping can, of course, weaken a fundamental principle in our society that everyone must work on proper pay and working conditions. After all, the government is working with the SF and the Enhedslisten to combat social dumping, and a new set of initiatives in this area has been agreed in the recently signed Finance Act. Specifically in relation to the aviation industry, the government has launched initiatives in the area of the Minister of Transport, and a working group on social dumping in aviation has been set up in 2013 to identify social dumping and its consequences and to make recommendations for possible initiatives. As regards SKI's flight agreement, there is no doubt that SKI as a public procurement centre must ensure effective purchase in accordance with the applicable rules and therefore SKI must comply with the competition rules of the EU procurement rules and circulars and guidelines, etc. on social responsibility, what we call the CSR on a daily basis. In particular, EU rules require contracts to be awarded on the basis of an invitation to tender under the EU Procurement Directive, and the SKI Flight Agreement has been concluded following such an invitation to tender and no negotiations have taken place with each supplier. The rules I am talking about also imply that there is no requirement for a supplier to be covered by a collective agreement, nor, in the case of persons employed outside Denmark, can there be any reference to Danish collective agreements in working clauses. SKI has stated that SKI in the flight agreement requires that the employees of the suppliers employed in Denmark are paid according to the applicable agreement. Furthermore, SKI requires suppliers to comply with international conventions, and this also applies to employees employed outside Denmark. So SKI has made a number of specific demands on suppliers' social responsibility in accordance with the applicable rules and guidelines in this area, and I would like to stress that public procurement, which is also carried out by SKI, cannot and must not deal with all the issues that may exist in a given market. CSR requirements in public procurement contracts cannot stand alone, and that is why, as I said at the outset, the government has taken a number of more general initiatives to prevent social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155007	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155008	Thank you. It doesn't matter to me that both questions are answered under one. Then I can also ask you a few questions on both subjects. It is true that one of the keys to this is social dumping, which the government often and often speaks of as wanting to take action against. Therefore, it seems rather paradoxical, regardless of how many rules there are in the EU, that on a large number of overseas routes you choose a company that has chosen to register in Ireland, and they simply do so in order to circumvent Danish wage and contract conditions. And the Minister for Finance is about to have a problem. I have heard from the water pipes that SAS is making a relatively large deficit in their half-yearly accounts, and it must at some point concern the Minister for Finance if, through the travels of the state, we are helping to undermine a company of which we ourselves are co-owners together with the other Nordic countries. Is that not at all a matter of concern to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155114	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155115	Well, I'm so permanently worried about a whole range of different plans. But I do not think that the paradox to which the questioner refers is so prominent. It is actually quite clear, and it is also in the answer, that when we shop as a state, we must of course comply with the rules of the game in relation to how to buy and what to put emphasis on when shopping. This has always been the case, even before the change of government, and it has also been accepted by the Danish People's Party in general. In addition, through CSR policy, CSR requirements, within the current framework and through a general approach to social dumping, we must ensure that what we do not want in Denmark does not happen in Denmark. And it has to be said that there has been a turbo on that part of Danish politics since the change of government, where rules and efforts have now been tightened up in many different contexts. That was not the case before the change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155208	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155209	Perhaps this is because the problem was not so wide-ranging. That's fine. But when you're out making some deals from the state, I just think it still seems weird. It could then lead me to see whether the Minister could perhaps even recommend SAS to flag out to Ireland. Because then it could be better for them to compete against Norwegian and other companies using this model. I still find it worrying that the state is entering into agreements of this kind, because one can force SAS into the same manoeuvre, and then one is at least out on a slippery slope that will cost thousands of jobs at Copenhagen Airport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155249	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155250	I think that, although it is of course a discussion that will lead too far, I personally have risked quite a lot to ensure that we actually have a SAS in Denmark and the many jobs we have at Copenhagen Airport in this regard. It's a well-known case. I also think, although it is good to have a political debate on social dumping, that the questioner himself is yes, I do not know, but I would guess that and the author's party will agree with me that the procurement rules that apply must, of course, be respected. It would take Denmark to the wrong place if we broke them. It would probably mean that we were caught in it and sentenced to observe them. If all other countries broke these rules, there would also be a serious market impact for Danish companies selling to other countries. So I think we all have to make an effort to accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155340	Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155341	In conclusion, I should just like to ask the Minister whether there is absolutely no possibility in the procurement rules to counter the fact that there are agreements with companies engaged in social dumping. Because it has to be said that when a company is deliberately registered in a country where there are more relaxed tax rules, it is, of course, to be more competitive. Then we can call it social dumping, or whatever we think, but it will always be, all other things being equal, in relation to an airline that has to act under Danish pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155416	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155416-2	I think it is quite appropriate for the questioner to take an interest in this and also raise it in the Assembly and, as I tried to explain in my general answer, there is, of course, the possibility of making CSR requirements, specific requirements, and there is an opportunity, in general, to take action against social dumping with general rules. That is exactly what the government has done and, by the way, it has also set out to continue to do. I just think that all responsible parties must quickly agree that the rules that apply to tenders must be respected, in our own interests. Because if we start breaking them, we will not end up fighting social dumping, but we will have negative consequences which will then have to be paid by taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155452	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Finance. That's what Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155505	The question is: Does the Minister think that it is reassuring for the confidence in the government's economic policy that the government has to take a grip on and bring forward the taxation of Danes' pensions in order to create just the least degree of probability that Denmark does not exceed the EU deficit limit of 3%? of GDP?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155522	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155523	I believe that the most reassuring thing that can be done in relation to our economic policy is to show that the demands to which we are bound are applied in practice. That's exactly what the government has done. We comply with the requirements we are bound by. We have even introduced new requirements, as we have endorsed both the Financial Pact and adopted a budget law. We have got Denmark out of the EU recommendation that the bourgeois government that preceded us got us into. And when you look at what we have currently proposed and agreed to adopt, the European Commission's estimate is that it will remain on the safe side of the borders. In addition, in our debate on the same subject last week, we were able to clarify that exactly the proposal we are critical of here is in fact supporting the Left. In fact, the Left intends to vote in favour of this reorganization of pension opportunities in Denmark with a view to putting itself in the same situation as the government, namely to be able to pursue an economic policy that pushes as much as possible on growth and employment at a time when we are not yet fully out of the crisis we have been in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155628	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155629	It is true that we support that proposal, but we do so necessarily because we have to deal with the economic framework and what else may be the economic policy that the government has brought forward. After all, we are a responsible party which will then have to decide how to avoid getting into the situation described by the Minister of Finance. So that's right. But I want to ask you something. Now this operation has been carried out, which seems to be in the vicinity of 15 billion. kr., if I'm not very wrong. I think that when we were here last week discussing something similar to what the Minister of Finance rightly says, we had a discussion about the conditions underlying the financing basis on which the financial regulation is based. This is among other things. A growth estimate of which we will soon see a re-evaluation, we might say, for economic development, but also for oil prices. And when we stood here a week ago, the oil price was around $78-80 a year. barrel. Now, I haven't checked here lately, but I think it's about 70 bucks now. So it is quite a development, and if next week, when we may be standing here again, is 60 dollars, what do I know I shall not start to speculate about it, is there a probability... or let me ask in another way: when do the government and the finance minister start to consider making further adjustments or interventions, gripes, you can call it many things, to make sure that we are on the safe side of the 3-percent limit? Because I guess that's what this is all about. And, if you are prepared to do so, it might be interesting to know what new interventions are in the bag if, for example, the price of oil continues to fall. After all, it has a certain significance for Danish revenue for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155812	Minister for Finance
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155813	I feel like the government's got this situation under control. We were indeed discussing the price of oil last week. That discussion is also continuing in the media after we discussed it with each other. What has also been promoted in the media is the counter-productive effects that I pointed out. There has been a figure out I shall not be able to verify that there are 17,500 Danish jobs in this falling oil price. If only to some extent it is true, the mechanism is certainly correct, then it puts a plus on the state budget. I am just delighted that the Left supports what is sensible, and I also look forward to seeing the amendments tabled by the Left to the Government's Financial Law Agreement, because there we will probably have, one must understand from Wednesday's discussions, a full illustration of how the Left wants to pursue economic policy and how to stay within the framework of EU requirements and budget law, with all the proposals that the Left has put forward over the past six months without using these pension funds. This is something I look forward to debating a long day here in the Folketing just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155912	Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203155913	I can confirm what the Minister of Finance says, namely that the Left supports what is sensible. I can confirm that. We will do so at any time, whether we are in government or we are in opposition. We have been doing this for the last three years in opposition. However, the Minister for Finance says as part of the explanation that it does not seem, I understand the answer, that there is a need for further action to ensure that when an oil price is dramatically decreasing, and that is quite a significant contribution to our income base, it is because you can read, I think it was in Berlingske, an analysis that it should give 17,500 extra jobs. Then I just have to ask and refer to the government's own precautionary principle. We know, of course, that when oil prices have de facto fallen, this means lower tax revenue for the Treasury. But we do not know whether there will actually be the 17,500 new jobs mentioned or, if so, when they will come and thus generate corresponding revenue. So is this linked to the precautionary principle, which the government, by the way, prides itself on? We know that revenue has been lost, but it seems that other income from jobs which have not yet appeared on the horizon is now being taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160017	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160018	After all, the government comes up with new estimates on a regular basis, which we also examined in thoroughness and, I think, agreed last time that this was a completely common practice. As I said, I predict that we will have that discussion on Wednesday after Wednesday. I can't wait every Wednesday. It's good company. I think these are good themes. I feel that the government is well aware of the problem. And then it all ends just before Christmas, when we have a budget debate and when we have a vision of the matter, in terms of what the Left thinks, in other words, how all the questions put by the Left and all the uncertainty raised by the Left, and all the proposals that the Left has been involved in relation to public expenditure, tax cuts, etc., are economically linked within the framework of the budget law, within the framework of the financial pact, in the context of the demand for 0.5%. and 3.0 per cent. I look forward to it alive. I'm almost looking forward to it more than Christmas Eve in terms of having that math presented in its full form.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160114	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160118	We are trying a little unsuccessfully to get the Minister of Finance to stick to his precautionary principle a little more, and I think it is very hard to do that. The question is whether what the Minister of Finance has said here today is a new interpretation of the precautionary principle, because I think that clearly goes back to what the Minister of Finance says. The Minister of Finance says: Well, if we just stay below the 3%, it's a principle of responsibility and prudence. However, the Minister for Finance launched the precautionary principle in such a way that expenditure would not be incurred if revenue had not been secured. And I have to say that it has been tricked with several times for the Minister of Finance today. When the Minister of Finance does not want to implement the government's legislative programme, it is because the principles of accountability and prudence will be followed. But I guess the precautionary principle has had nothing to do with the 3%. And when it is difficult to find funding, the expensive proposals are pushed forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160233	No, the government complies with a large number of economic policy requirements, both those arising from the financial pact, those arising from the budget law, those arising from the budgetary ceilings, and those arising from the precautionary principle, i.e. a large number of requirements. I mean, just a little nod would make my Christmas cheer quite enormous, compared to the fact that I can look forward to being presented right up to the Christmas holidays, how the Left in the Left's own bid for a responsible economic policy... without these pension billions, and with the implementation of all the tax proposals that have been made, of all the expenses that have been proposed, where, for example, there are. The other day was a road fund for 20 billion. kr. on the field, and I didn't hear anything about funding in this regard • make sure that we stay within all the limits we are bound by. I look forward to seeing this very much, even just to getting the left's own oil price estimates and the estimates that they would like to lean on. I mean, when we get it, we can have a really, really festive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160329	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160331	It is always festive to discuss this with the Minister for Finance, so we can look forward to it many more times. But I have to say that a new interpretation of the precautionary principle has then been enshrined today. As long as the Minister of Finance stays below the 3%, it does not matter that expenditure is going on, because the new understanding of the precautionary principle is therefore: yes, yes, it may well be that we do not quite get the revenue in the box we were expecting, for example. a tax on advertising, which would amount to 400 million. kr., but which may pay 1.5 million. kr. I just want to thank the Minister for the fact that we have had a new interpretation of the precautionary principle and we will look forward to seeing what else is going on from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160423	You have not had a new interpretation of anything, even if you make it sound like that, not at all. What has been documented once again is that the economic policy of this government is under control; that is where we abide by the principles and framework to which we have committed ourselves. And that is far more, if I may say so, a tight and significant framework than the previous government was willing to follow. Well, we have a new budget law in Denmark. It applies, and it applies to all future governments, until the Left breaks that settlement; that is not to be hoped for ever. We run with a precautionary principle, we follow a financial pact, and we do not get EU recommendations. But what's gonna happen is how the Left delivers the same product with some other estimates for oil prices and without pension billions... I'm really excited to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160508	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen on the final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160512	I just want to ask quite quietly whether the developments we have seen lately mean something and that is sincerely meant, it is not even polemical. So, the question was originally whether it matters in relation to the 3-percent limit that this pension tax has now been applied. Does it matter, and when, if so, can it be imagined that this means that the government will then begin to do more? We shall then have to see whether we can then support it if the price of oil continues to fall or if we can see that it is likely that next year's estimates for the economy will be downgraded by the officials. We have seen a dramatic development. As I said, we were here last Wednesday, when the oil price was 78-80 dollars, and now it is only 70 dollars. I don't know what will happen in 1 week or 14 days, when we may be standing here again who knows who does, but it's just to ask quite quietly and sincerely: Is there a limit to when the government considers that further action must be taken so that we do not remain within the 3% that we share the ambition that we are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160614	Well, it was a completely professional question and thank you for that. In other words, what is happening is that our next bid for the overall picture of the features of the Danish economy, growth estimates, estimates of public deficits, estimates of central parameters of public budgets, including the oil price, is included in the Economic Statement, and it comes on a regular basis. So the Left can look forward to that part of the Christmas season, if you may say so, and then I just hope that I can have a little nod that I can look forward to the second, namely a bid on how, in the name of heaven, the Left intends to get the things you stand here and say on Wednesday after Wednesday, to hang together in economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160652	Thank you. That was the end of Question 7. The next question has been put to the Minister for Finance by Mr Gundelach. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and Mr. Mads Rørvig is an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160704	First, it's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160705	The question is this: does the Minister think that it is sufficient that the budget agreement alone allocates 7-15 million? kr. in the years 2014-2018 to introduce the right of refugees to a full national pension when the lasting impact of the proposal puts on public expenditure by approx. 90 million kr. Every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160724	With agreement on the 2015 Finance Act, refugees' right to a full national pension has been reinstated and this means that the residence period of refugees in the country of origin can again be equated with residence in Denmark, so that refugees can again obtain a full national pension. The costs associated with the re-establishment are fully financed by agreement on the Finance Act for 2015 and are incurred within the framework of the expenditure ceilings of 2015-2018 and, in the period following that, expenditure is incurred within the overall expenditure framework of the Government's medium-term projection.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160758	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160759	Well, that was actually a very clear speech. The Finance Act says that money is set aside for it up to 2018, and this is the 7-15 million. It is also true that the precautionary principle is becoming a bit funny again. As far as the lasting effect is concerned, yes, the government has more than 90 million. kr. In the years up to 2035 expenditure will rise significantly and up to just over 53 million. kr. And I think it is actually very good of the government to make an agreement which I believe the government itself supported when the restriction was introduced under the previous government, but is now taking on a cost-intensive proposal of lasting 90 million. kr., and it is then financed with 7 million, 9 million. and by 15 million. kr. in 2018, and then, I have to understand, such general room for manoeuvre funding. So there is simply again, as in so many other areas, expenditure for which there is no guarantee of lasting funding and which is just waiting to be financed. The Minister for Finance will certainly hope that he will be the one who will have the challenge, and the rest of us will hope that it will be us who will be responsible for finding the money, but that is to say, no initiatives have been taken to ensure the sustainable financing of an expensive proposal. The Minister must then be able to see this comical in relation to the Minister's warm talk of caution and responsibility. A bill is adopted here in the Folketing, which involves massive expenditure, and some modest money is found to cope with the funding in the first few years, but then the bill is just waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203160957	Yeah, well, by 2030, I think I've run tired as a finance minister. There must be other forces, but it must be a social democrat for my sake. After all, this has been done according to perfectly common practice. In other words, the Finance Act is technically made in such a way as to indicate what is happening in the budget year and in the budget years from 2015-2018, the rest of it is kept within the scope. It is fully responsiblely funded, there is room for it. It is not money that should be found, it is money that has been financed within the framework of economic policy currently being pursued. I would really like to ask you about that road fund, which is not 300 million. DKK, but at 20 billion. kr., launched by the Left, together with Dansk Folkeparti, LA and Conservative People's Party: How does the funding of the proposal differ from what we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161049	Now it is the case that these are questions to the Minister for Finance, and it would probably not be quite clear that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen answers the Minister of Finance's question in this round. But, of course, it's up to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen himself. At least it's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161106	I think I'll try. I think that if the Minister for Finance listened carefully, he would have heard that this was not a firm, concrete promise with regard to this road fund that the Minister for Finance is talking about. I believe that the Minister for Finance, if he wants to know exactly what was said, will be able to see that a wish was expressed, but that no promise was made that the money was available. I really think it is very fair to draw that dividing line, and of course the Minister for Finance could have done so if he had looked carefully. But...
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161141	Now they're 30 seconds out. Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161143	Well, I have, that is where we are really delivering something for the taxpayers out there, when we are, like, trying to get a real coherence in what is being asked and what is being answered. I've heard it now, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has said that it is proposed to spend 20 billion. kr. on an army highway and it is in the context of such a road fund, but I have not heard of any kind of financial constraints mentioned no form of financing other than what might be of scope, and this has soon been used many times by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161222	Then it's mr. Mads Rørvig as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161224	I am sorry to have to inform the Minister for Finance of this, but there is, after all, a difference between operation and construction. This is quite a considerable difference, and the issue is precisely that this is going to burden budgets year after year. We can see that in 2035 the cost is estimated to be around 350 million. kr. I just want to know if the Minister for Finance is not impressed by the fact that decisions are being taken now, as can be said to cost 7 million and 14 million. kr. The next few years, but in 2035 it will rise to 350 million. kr. I mean, doesn't that make a little impression, because we're preoccupied with balance? There will be a 2025 plan coming up with a 2030 plan coming up with a 2035 plan, and here we are taking an active position that the challenge must be significantly greater than we have allocated funding for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161327	Well, that's just not right. There is a full space for this within the fully funded framework that lies for the coming years. I believe that anyone who deals professionally with economic policy in Denmark will know that. In other words, we have room for manoeuvre in the years to come and, unlike in the past, it is financed. It is not based on such a demand process with unspecified reforms, as in the bad old days when we could buy the whole world, and I do not know what. This is under control. Although there is a difference between operation and installation, plants are not free of charge. I can sometimes get the impression that this is the view of the Left Parliament group, so that in relation to installations one can simply conjure up money. There is no need to deal with funding at all. So it is, of course, the questioner's free right not to answer because you do not want the political debate, but you cannot confirm that public expenditure has been specifically proposed for 20 billion. kr. In the near future, without just suggesting any kind of funding from the Left, and that in the same context, in the same week too, has it at least suggested that we should have a permanent housing job scheme in Denmark? I do not know what it will cost, and I do not know where the funding will come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161437	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161438	It is simply the architect of the Togfonden DK who is standing and speaking. And we all know that the agreement on the Togfonden DK has been concluded on a number of terms concerning the oil price. The Minister of Finance just has to look out the window at the nearest gas station to see that the conditions are far from being met just in relation to the finance model of the Finance Minister's own. But we don't know what's going on in 2035. A lot of things can happen. Revenue can affect things; it may be that something extraordinary is happening in the form of new technology and other things. But there is something we know, and that is what we ourselves are deciding, and that is what we ourselves are legislating on. The Minister for Finance must then be impressed by the fact that we are passing on the challenge to our colleagues in 15 years' time, namely that there are just 350 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161526	We have taken a full position on this. Well, we've secured the room. That is, moreover, the scope which the Left wants to devote to tax cuts. Well, that's the way the whole economic discussion is going. When you say on the Left that you are financing by zero growth, that means in practice that you apply exactly the same scope to a large number of proposals, which you do not want to specify any more than you want to specify zero growth. This isn't gonna work. In other words, proposals have been made for a road fund of 20 billion. kr. without implying funding. As far as the Danish Railway Fund is concerned, there is funding, namely that all oil companies in the North Sea pay the same tax as Mærsk has paid all the time. That's right. On the other hand, the attempt has not even been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161611	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for a final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161613	I just need to make a correction in relation to the Oil Fund. Yeah, you've decided to spend 281⁄2 billion. kr., and then you expect some money to come in from the North Sea, but anyone can see, even when we passed the law, that a large billion hole was left behind and it just grows. It's just to make that part clear. But it is true that the government has then committed future parliamentary assemblies to paying the money, but funding has not been provided. There are many examples of the fact that the bills are simply being pushed into the future, and it is, of course, sad that the government, which is trying to claim to be responsible, is putting funding into the future, which has not been taken into account. When the Minister for Finance says it has been done on the medium-term projection, I would like to know what the cost of full folk pensions for refugees is to stay in the terminology of the Minister for Finance. What else was the government planning to use that room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161712	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161713	After all, they do not displace anything, because we have a government that conducts responsible economic policy and has therefore left room for manoeuvre for the coming years. There are, of course, year by year resources to invest in what we think is most important in Denmark, because things are under control in Denmark. The Train Fund DK is fully financed according to all the principles of the common market • fully financed. The Road Fund isn't. You haven't even tried hard. I think that somehow is something we have to return to, even if I am not the one who is asking the questions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161742	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8 to the Minister Then I would like to say that the next question to the Minister for Finance, Question No. 9, by Mr. Kim Christiansen has been withdrawn by the author after answering Question No 4 by Mr Kim Christiansen. 6. That concludes questions to the Minister for Finance. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10 to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161809	Thank you for the floor. When it seems that a steady flow of people continues to travel from Denmark to Syria in holy war, can it not be necessary to tighten the penalties even more than the government has proposed, possibly through the withdrawal of citizenship and expulsion?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161827	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203161828	I would like to begin by saying that I have no sympathy and I repeat: no one can be defended, it cannot be explained, it cannot be legitimised and there is every reason to distance those people, from their opinions, from their actions and their adherence to the Islamic State. This also means, of course, that we in Denmark must do what we can to prevent people from travelling from Denmark and joining the enormous crimes against people who are currently taking place in the Middle East. That is why, with a new legislative proposal, we have proposed that the authorities should have new, firm and good tools. We want to be able to include the passport of Danish citizens who are supposed to leave. We want an exit ban to be imposed, and we also want the residence permit for foreigners who travel to Syria, for example, to be able to lapse before returning to Denmark. In addition, the Danish authorities must pay more than usual attention to whether there are grounds for bringing criminal proceedings so that those concerned can be held liable in relation to any criminal activity, for example. in Syria. Then we have finally asked the Criminal Code Council to assess whether the rules in force in the Criminal Code provide adequate safeguards in order to counteract participation in and recruitment to armed conflicts abroad. Summa summarum: We have a huge commitment, both to ourselves as a democracy and as a free country, to the civilian population in the Middle East and to the world community to fight against all those who had to call for the stupid term of being a holy warrior in my view, and we have a number of proposals from the government which I hope the Danish People's Party will support when they come to the vote down here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162027	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162029	Yes, yes, but well, we are very much in favour of tightening; it is certainly. However, the reason why I am asking is not, in fact, oppositional teasing or something that might otherwise be perceived as, because this is, I think, just a lot more serious than that. I keep thinking, when you hear such things here, that it can't get any worse; now there are people who leave Denmark and go to holy war in Syria. Then you are told that they are actually receiving cash help from home, and then it just gets an extra tooth, where you think: Are we completely ridiculous in Denmark? What the hell is going on? And there's something I can't understand. Now it has been a few years since we have known that there are people going to holy war and yet the flow continues. I have to say that I find it hard to understand that you can't put an end to this. It could almost be from one day to the next. And the danger these people pose when they get home is at least as serious as the fact that they go down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162138	I would like to say that if we are dealing with a Danish citizen who not only joins one of the worst movements currently on the planet, namely the Islamic State, but also receives Danish cash assistance or Danish daily allowance, then I have the pleasure of being Minister of Justice until a short time also been the country's Minister for Employment, and that was actually when I became aware of the problem. For it was then that I first saw that PET had wisely registered those who have been out of Denmark and their association with the benefits, and I asked as Minister for Employment that the authorities not only did a regular check of those concerned, but that very specific follow-up was carried out on each and every case, and that has been achieved. For in the vast majority of cases and the examples where someone has been travelling to Syria and who has received Danish benefits, indeed, it has been mapped out and there have also been grounds for depriving them of benefits. Of course we have to do it. The benefits are an essential element, but that is the least I would say, because far, far worse, it is, of course, with regard to the risks associated with the people concerned, both when they are in the Middle East and, of course, after their return to Denmark. That's why we have to hit them hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162250	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162252	But I just think that this is something that we in the Folketing can correct in relation to all of us, and it is, of course, that the fact that it is so serious makes it all the more crazy. If it was rumored in the world that people who receive cash help can go to holy war in Syria and at the same time receive cash aid, it might well draw some of the worst types. I just think it's way above track. I would really like this to be tightened up, in other words, really so that it can be felt, so that we can stop this.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162331	However, we need to tighten up, because we should not accept as a society that there are Danish citizens going to the Middle East right now and contributing to bloodshed and crimes against the civilian population, nor should we accept that they subsequently return with any very radical, very extreme and anti-democratic views that may result in actions that pose a risk to our state, our freedom and our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162406	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162408	Now I propose, among other things. To be quite honest: they do not belong in Denmark, and when they make the decision to go down there and also to shoot at Danish soldiers, and what else they do of things that are disgusting, I think they also disclaim the right to the Danish state protect them in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162449	In terms of content, I do not disagree with the questioner that it should have consequences when taking such crazy actions as it is to join the Islamic State. When it comes to the disqualification of citizenship as proposed by the opposition today, I understand that the opposition will not force those concerned, in case they become stateless, and then the opposition and potentially Denmark have the problem that they may be denied their citizenship, but they will still remain in Denmark only on tolerated residence. We must be careful with the symbol policy here, because what is important for Denmark is that we have control of those concerned and that we prevent specific exits and possible entry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162532	It was the end of questions to the Minister of Justice from Mr. Christian Langballe. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, but we need a questioner. Then we have to withdraw it from the agenda. I should just like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, has been withdrawn from the agenda. 11 by Mr. Karsten Lauritzen to the Minister of Justice will be transferred to a written reply. That is why it is gone, and in Question 12 to the Minister for Justice we lack a questioner, and so we have to recognise that it lapses. So we move on to Question 13 to the Minister for Employment, and that is by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162709	What will the Minister do about people who go to holy war in Syria receiving cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162722	After all, the scandal of those who go to war in Syria made the Minister of Justice very much aware of this, and I fully agree with that. There is nothing attenuating to say about people who choose to do so, and certainly not, under any circumstances, with public Danish services. You can't say that sharp enough. It just needs to be clear. More factually, it is up to the municipalities to ensure that the rules governing the payment of social benefits are respected, and this is done in the context of the local authorities' proceedings. As a rule, the payment of benefits is subject to the condition that the recipient of the benefit stays in the country. If there are indications in the municipality that this is not the case, the municipality must investigate the case and, where appropriate, decide to stop the payment. The Labour Market and Recruitment Agency has a well-functioning judicial cooperation with PET on persons who have been travelling to Syria, while at the same time there is a presumption that they have received cash benefits or unemployment benefit. The Labour Market and Recruitment Board thus receives information from PET about a number of people. The Board has subsequently sent information to municipalities and cashiers which are paying authorities and which are required to take a decision on the matter. The board has asked both municipalities and a-boxes for concrete feedback on the outcome of the reports from PET. Finally, I would like to say that I am following the area closely and I am constantly being informed of the status of the case. The problem obviously has my great attention; it is not acceptable, as I said at the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162855	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162857	I also said it to the Minister for Justice, and I would like to repeat it: you sit there and think that things are not getting any worse now. So there are people who have citizenship and residence permits in Denmark who go to holy war in Syria, and that in itself is totally horrible. And if it doesn't come out all of a sudden, these people are also receiving cash benefits. Then I have to say that my comprehension will then begin to reach its limit, because I cannot understand why this is not being dealt with much more quickly. I guess you know when these people have been to Syria. I guess you know what they've been doing. And that there is no greater control over the payment of cash benefits, I must say I do not really understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203162956-2	After all, we must not always have a debate just for the sake of the debate, because if we agree with the questioner in this way, it is in itself difficult to enter into a debate. I fully agree with the questioner that this is a disgrace and cannot be said strong enough. Unfortunately, however, it is not the case that, if you decide to leave on such a journey, you inform public offices, so to speak, that this is what you intend to do. That is why we need to use all the means available to us to ensure that no cash benefits or benefits are paid out from the cashier in that situation. And there we have different systems, in relation to when to join and such things, and the municipalities are and must be aware of it. We have made specific contact with the Labour Market Authority, as I said before, so that everything that can be done can be done at all, because I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Langballe in that it is totally, totally unacceptable to go first, and it is grotesque if you get public funds for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163101	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163103	I am, of course, pleased with the announcement made by the Minister for Employment. In view of the seriousness of the situation, I just think that there should be something more action behind it. I don't think this should be possible at all. I think there will be many who will say why nothing is happening in Christiansborg. Why do you just stand idly by? I believe that it also requires a very strong call to the municipalities to take this duty of supervision seriously, so as to make sure that the people who leave here do not receive cash benefits under any circumstances and are, moreover, willing to be subject to considerable penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163154	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163156	The latter is then over in another system. Again, I would like to say that this is a debate for the sake of the debate. But I just want to say that we don't stand idly by. I'm just gonna have to ask the questioner to understand that we don't. I also believe that the reply from the Minister for Justice, who has, after all, been on the job as Minister for Employment so far, made it very clear that when it was discovered that there was this traffic, it was dealt with immediately. Our governing body is very aware of it and the restrictions and opportunities we have are, of course, being used. We have contact with the municipalities. I am merely a member of the committee and it will be a repeat of the questioner's view that it is unacceptable to leave, and it is baroque if there is anything at all with cash assistance or any other form of public service if you leave. We must do everything we can to prevent that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163245	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163247	Leaving is, of course, horrible, and the fact that you can then receive cash benefits is horrible. I also think that when people hear about such things, most people take their heads and think: are we completely ridiculous? And then I actually think that there is a quiet form of impotence, because if we cannot do something about the fact that those people are not, of course, going to receive cash aid, what can we really do about it? I can sense that the Minister for Employment agrees with me on this, and I only hope that something really happens and that it is sketched out, including in the municipalities, that this is very serious and that it is really taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163331	The municipalities do. I really do not think there is anyone in the municipal system who does not agree with that, as Mr. Christian Langballe and I have been talking about here. There are restrictions and we use them, and we have excellent cooperation with PET. I just want to say that there is no degree difference between whether we think this is more or less unacceptable. This is totally unacceptable and we must use all the means and forces we have to stop it if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163400	That was the end of Question 13. Then we go to question 14. It is also for the Minister for Employment, and that is what Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163409	Sir. Peter Skaarup for reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163412	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's position that new PET figures show that 28 returnees have been found so far, who have received either cash benefits or cash benefits in Denmark while fighting for the Islamic State of Syria, and will the Minister put an end to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163435	Yeah. Now I'm not going to use that sharp condemnation that I used in the question from Mr. Christian Langballe, because that takes time from my answer, so I go straight to the answer, because that is obviously unacceptable. I would like to begin by clarifying that the Labour Market and Recruitment Agency has received information from PET about 28 people who have been left in relation to the conflict in Syria, while at the same time there is a presumption that they have received cash benefits or unemployment benefits. It is therefore not certain that all 28 persons have actually received the benefit during their departure. I can say that there are currently 20 cases in which feedback has been received. Of the 20 cases, a decision has been taken in the 15 cases either by the cashier or by the municipality on the repayment and, where appropriate, the imposition of sanctions. In the remaining five cases no recovery decision has been taken or sanctions imposed. This may be due either to the fact that the person has not received a benefit during his/her stay abroad and therefore has not infringed the applicable rules in relation to receiving this benefit, or may be due to the fact that the cashier or the municipality has not been able to prove that the person has left. There is still no feedback from municipalities and a-boxes in 8 cases. In the four of them, reports from PET have been received in November of this year. The remaining four cases are from May and June this year. 3 out of the 4 cases are close to being settled, and in the last case it has not been possible to find the person. I have to say, for the sake of good order, that those people do not, of course, receive benefits. I am confident that both municipalities and cashiers will ensure that the rules governing the payment of social benefits are complied with and that, according to the rules in force, the payment of aid is already based on the fact that the recipient of the benefit is staying in the country. If there are indications in the municipalities or cashiers in the proceedings that this is not the case, municipalities or cashiers must investigate the case and, of course, make a decision to stop the aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163613	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163615	Thank you for your answer. I think it's good if something happens here. The reason why we have been particularly interested in it in the Danish People's Party is that, compared to those who leave on these war cruises in Syria and Iraq, and which, as such, indirectly will fight against Danish forces, as we have sent F-16 flights to Iraq, all signals are important. And a very important signal when we have to tell those concerned that it is a bad idea to leave is that you can get hit on your purse, that things have consequences, that when you stay in Syria or Iraq, you cannot at the same time receive Danish benefits, because then you are not in any way available. For this reason, as early as April and May 2013, we raised a number of questions to the then Minister for Employment, who had no real knowledge of the problem. After what we were told, nothing special would be done, even if it was actually the Ministry of Employment, to which the task was assigned, if anything was to be done. All that was referred to was that PET had the opportunity to look at it. And that is why I think it may be a little poor that so long has passed since it was first brought to the attention of the House. Perhaps you should have been aware of it on your own initiative, in that a great many holy warriors have been sent forth. But that it has taken so long to draw attention to it by the Danish People's Party before reacting, I think it is poor. I think that's a long time to let go. So I would like the Minister to say something about what time has been spent on. When did something happen in this case? It is therefore a very important signal to those concerned that there are consequences when they choose to go to Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163820	You can't have a debate when you agree. So, I agree that paragraph 1 is unacceptable to leave and paragraph 2 completely unacceptable if you can get a public service while you are away. So it's out of discussion. Perhaps I cannot be so precise about the past in this matter, because I have not been so close to it, but I thought I was very precise. Peter Skaarup in the description of the 28 cases we know in collaboration with PET. And what I am delighted about is that when you read what I said in my first answer, you can see that it is taken care of, and it must also be taken care of, whether it is the municipality's responsibility or it is the responsibility of the coffers. Because as we agree, this is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163906	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163912	Well, I would like to ask the Minister if he can tell us what other sanction has been imposed on returned holy warriors and if he can indicate whether the 50 people who are believed to have returned to Denmark have ended up on public support again after returning to Denmark. One thing, of course, is to withdraw some benefits that have been paid, but something else is what is happening in the future. Is that the only sanction you face?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203163957	Of course, I am not in a position to answer that, but if I have the question, I will answer it. After all, there are clear rules on how to receive cash benefits or cash benefits from an unemployment fund. I cannot tell the story in relation to the people who have returned, but of course I will answer that question if I have the question. Then I just want to make it clear that this is not the case. As I said in my first reply, this is from this summer, and decisions have been taken on these cases, they have been examined and so on. There are then a few left to which, for various reasons, we do not quite have an answer yet, but there are some who are here from November.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164038	Thank you. On this question, a co-questioner has been notified, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, who has two rounds of questions. And the first round is about to start. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164046	Thank you for that, President. I just need to ask the Minister for Employment for the Minister for Employment, of course, know all about the question whether it is the case that you cannot take cash assistance with out of the country unless you have it approved by your job centre. That is to say, there are certain areas in which you can take cash aid, and that is in connection with holidays, in connection with visiting sick relatives and such things. But what does it look like? Is it not the case that there really is no overview of those here who are going to Syria? When the job centre can see that they are not available, they must immediately deprive them of the cash benefits. We should not wait for PET to come and say that somebody is now in Syria. It is the case, whether it is in Syria or elsewhere, that they will not be able to take the cash aid with them. What is the Minister going to do to tighten up on this in relation to the job centres and say that when you find someone who is not available, they will lose cash aid immediately if they are abroad? There's gotta be an overview of it. The same applies to the daily allowance, which cannot be taken outside the European Union either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164158	I'd like to say to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that I think we have the common problem, that unfortunately it is not the case that those who choose to go to Syria as Syrians report it to the public authorities. I think we can count on them not to. Sir. Bent Bøgsted knows as well as I do that there are a number of control options available to the municipalities in relation to how to report to the job network, how often you have to show up for control, activation and all that stuff. And there is just no doubt that if the municipalities have something that looks just like suspicion that some people have left the country, then you have to act in relation to it. I think that all the municipalities and the people who work with this in the municipalities, all those who work with this in the coffers, agree with Mr. Bent Bøgsted and me in that going to Syria in itself is judgmental, and it should under no circumstances so I am quite sure that one is concerned about ensuring that it will not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164256	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, final round as a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164258	It is a little strange because it is an old-fashioned case that there have been people who have gone abroad with their cash benefits. We had the situation that there were many Palestinians who went to Lebanon and were down there for months. We have had this before under a former Minister for Employment. So it is nothing new for the job centres that they should know that there are certain groups they need to keep an eye on. It must be the case that when you watch them and they do not react and are available you cannot reach them when they are in Syria as warriors, and I do not imagine that they run around with a computer when they are at war, and are constantly in contact with the job center and when you suspect a particular group, make an extra effort. I assume the Minister is ready to impress it on the job centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164355	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164356	That is why we have also been in telephone contact about the information that has been in relation to PET. I just want to say that there is no one here who will not help to ensure that the rules in force are respected. I can't answer what goes further back. That would be wrong of me, because I may not be good enough inside. But there are the clear rules on how to register, where to be, if you are in the cash assistance system and, as I said, with the CV on the computer and things like that. Well, there are some things. Then there is the second, which is absolutely crucial, namely that the municipalities have an obligation to follow it up if they have a suspicion. So we must not give the impression that there are authorities who do not care about this, because I do not believe that there are any authorities there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164445	Thanks to the co-author. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last round of this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164450	Those were some excellent questions that my co-author had to answer. Finally, I would like to follow up on questions to the Minister, because, as I said, we have been following this for a year and a half without really being able to make any progress. It's only now that the government is starting to wake up. I would like to ask whether it would not be reasonable, if we now see this traffic of holy warriors, who apparently take cash benefits out of the country, to counter it with some kind of sanction, which is added, that they have to pay the money back. That is cheating and deception, because they are not available when they receive cash and cash benefits when they wage war in Syria or Iraq. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164536	Well, that's also why you shouldn't have public support, whether it's cash or money from the cash register. I have tried to explain quite precisely that there are rules for that and that those rules must be followed. If there are to be other sanctions, it might have to be above the legal system, or what do I know? I'm not gonna move into that here today. It would be outside my resort, and that would not be fair. There should just be no doubt whatsoever that I, the government, take seriously the fact that paragraph 1, if young people leave for the terrible war against Denmark and our allies, paragraph 2, must in no case be such that they can take public support there. That is quite unreasonable and we will not accept it in any way. So what can be done to reveal it will be and will be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164627	Thank you. That was the end of Question 14 to the Minister for Employment. The next question is to the Minister of Education by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164641	Thank you. What will the Minister do to help children with special needs through the Social Service Act, including the 7-year-old boy Sebastian, mentioned in TV Syd's broadcast from 26 November 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164655	I know only the case in question from what has been in the media, but of course I would like to go in and respond more generally to children who need some special support. There is no doubt that children must not be without education. We must ensure this here in Denmark. This also means that a municipality is responsible for ensuring that all pupils receive an adequate educational offer. And if a student has an extensive support need which cannot be met within the framework of ordinary education, the pupil should be referred to special education. It is the case that parents have free choice of school here in Denmark, and therefore parents can also choose to apply to enter a free school, but it is then up to the free primary school if you want to take up the student. So that way you don't have a right to enter a free school, but you can apply for it. That's what the rules are about. And if a child is then admitted to a free primary school, it will also be the case that the school is obliged to provide the child with the necessary special education or other social pedagogy assistance. In some cases, it is the case that a child may have a need for support, which also requires help outside what is included in the education, and that is where social services law can enter. But I assume that the questioner asks in particular about the support that can be obtained as part of a teaching offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164813	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164815	Thank you for your answer. My concern is precisely with the children here and, in particular, Sebastian, who have not been in school very long. That is why I ask specifically how the Minister thinks it best to help, among other things. Sebastian and other children with special needs. The minister says it is the responsibility of the municipalities. So one might ask: does the Minister think that the municipalities are fulfilling their responsibilities? I understand from an answer that I have received that parents and children must be involved in education and in cooperation with them. But if we now have a mother who thinks that this is not the right offer, because you know your child as well and as parents often know what would be good for the child, how does the Minister view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203164910	I always find it deeply unhappy when there are cases where you can see that it has gone into a stalemate. At the end of the day, the child suffers, regardless of who is responsible for failing to find a sensible solution. In fact, I also believe that the very best thing is to do everything possible to ensure that dialogue takes place, just as the questioner also says, between the municipality and parents about the offers that there are. I am not sure that it is necessarily the best solution for this to be such a major public debate, but that a solution must be found in concrete terms. It is sometimes the case that there is no agreement on the offers, and I do not know whether that is the case in the specific case, because I do not know about them. But it is the case that if parents do not think they get the right offer from the municipality, then they can complain to the Board of Appeal for Special Education about the offer they have received.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165001	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165002	Yeah, but you just stand with a boy who's not in school. Then the minister says you can complain. But how long does such a complaint take? When will the Minister intervene if children do not go to school? I also think that as a minister, it is extremely important for children to go to school, not only in relation to their social competences, but also in relation to the learning they must have. I don't know if the minister remembers it, but there was an initiative from KL • Invest before it happens • • where you should focus on a holistic effort. That is precisely why I am asking about the social stakes, because I think that these laws must play together. I would really like to know if the Minister does not think that a toolbox might be missing. The Minister could sit down with among others. Maybe the Minister for Social Affairs and Integration, just like making this toolbox, how can you help the families and the children who have these special needs, so that you kind of come, you can say, the whole palette around. Is this something that the Minister could have an interest in taking the initiative and sending out to the municipalities so that you can see that you can pay for a free school and that you have these opportunities to help so that the family and the children (Den fg. President (Bent Bøgsted):
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165129	I must point out that we must remember that there are 30 seconds for questions after the first round. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165135	I would like to stress once again that I really find it deeply unhappy when things go into a stalemate and there can be no friendly solution and a good solution based on the fact that the child must of course have education. There is no doubt that a child must, of course, be a part of the child's education. Parents also have an obligation to ensure that the child is taught. I'm just saying this in general, that's the way it is. Therefore, if things happen, as is unfortunately the case sometimes, the parents have the opportunity to complain, but that should not be the case. And it is my impression that the rules on how to support, including with the possibilities offered by the municipality, also from a holistic approach, are as they should be. But there is still a need to work together to find a solution. There are sometimes situations where the parties do not agree, and fortunately there is also a way of appealing to the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165230	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165231	I do not really know how to interpret the Minister's answer. Does that mean that the Minister believes that everything is working well as it is doing today? Does the Minister not think that there needs to be some action on the part of the Minister, so that we can ensure that there are tools, you might say, in the toolbox that comes around the whole palette? This is precisely the holistic approach, both according to social legislation, but also in relation to the aid that can be obtained under primary school legislation. In this broadcast, as we have seen, it has been the case that it has worked well, that the child has gone to a free school, and the free school is also willing to take the child, but the municipality has not been willing to pay the funds required.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165318	It is the case that if a child is admitted to a free school, the school is obliged to provide the child with the necessary special education or other special educational assistance. The State also grants grants for the free primary schools to provide special education, and then the municipalities can also provide an additional grant. That's what the set of rules is. Then, unfortunately, you just have to say 'and I shall not be the one to go into the specific case, because I do not know it well enough for it to be so that there is sometimes no agreement as to what the overall solution should look like. That is also why I emphasise that the regulatory framework is there, but that, in the end, it is a question of a real will for dialogue and cooperation between all parties so that it can succeed. And if you do not think you have been treated properly there, there are remedies.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165404	Thank you. That was the end of Question 15. The next question, Question 16, is to the Minister of Education, and it is also by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165414	How will the Minister, through the Social Services Act, ensure that children with special needs do not end up being excluded from primary school rather than included?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165425	I do not think I can add much further, because the question corresponds to the question put just now by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So it is, of course, the same problem of assessing whether the regulatory framework is present, but that requires real cooperation between all parties. I do not know the specific case, so I shall not be able to go into it at all. It's just to say that it's not about us taking sides for one side or another. What I am answering is what the rule of law is and what is possible if, as a parent, you don't think you get the offer that your child should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165458	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165459	Thank you. The Minister has now set out the rules. But I would like to hear what the Minister is going to do about it. This is to be seen in the light of the fact that the Minister has previously been in consultation on free school legislation. Doesn't the Minister think that children can fall between two chairs? What initiatives does the Minister intend to take in concrete terms? I would like to hear an answer to that. It is, of course, the case that I have asked the Minister in the past about children with autism. We have received a letter from the National Association of Autism in which they write that they feel they are being faced with threats of coercion and parental injunctions. I have also sent that over to the Minister. It therefore shows that there are some challenges in this area. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's answer to the question: what action will the Minister take? One is the set of rules, but that is why you can make some other measures for a toolbox or the free school. What is the Minister going to do to meet the challenges of both adhd children and autism children who are having such a difficult and difficult time either getting to school or getting the right offer? We may have some parents who want an offer and have knowledge that it has worked well here, but then you may have a municipality on the other hand who says that this is not the offer they want to make, because there is also that part of the payment. So I would like to hear about the Minister's concrete actions in this area and not about the regulatory framework. Doesn't the Minister have any gold on how we can strengthen our efforts in this area and help the children that are at stake and the families that are at stake here?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165648	When I talk about the regulatory framework, it is because the questioner has asked whether the regulatory framework is sufficient. That's why I did it. But that does not change the fact that I really think it is deeply unhappy when we cannot reach an agreement. It is clear that if parents choose the solution you can here in Denmark by not using primary school, but a free primary school, they can apply for their child to come in there, and it is then up to the free school if they want to receive the child, and then there are some support schemes in the form of special education, which is also known from primary school. But it is the parents' free choice if you opt out of primary school in favour of a free school, but even if you choose a free school, it is therefore the case that the pupils can also receive special educational support under the rules on special education. We cannot, of course, from a central point of view, if we cannot reach agreement from Christiansborg, go in and deal with individual cases. That is why it is important for us to have a set of rules that will give parents an opportunity to complain if they do not find that they are getting the help they need. We therefore believe that the opportunities for action are present, including the possibility of appealing which is actually important for parents if agreement is not reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165757	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165759	Perhaps the Minister can explain how long it takes to complain, because during that time we could risk a child not being in school. So I certainly hope that, in relation to the possibility of redress, it will go quite quickly. Another thing the Minister says is that we cannot deal with individual cases. But often it turns out that one case is not just one case, but that it is often a case of other cases. We have seen this in relation to adhd children, and we have seen it in relation to children with autism: that there are some challenges. Then the minister keeps talking about the rules and does not provide any solutions, in terms of how we could do well from in here with some solutions, possibly a toolbox that offers some opportunities, so that at least the municipalities should not have any doubts as to what support can be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165851	I would actually like to start somewhere else by saying that it is fortunately also the case that there are very good offers for the vast majority of children who need some extra support, regardless of whether this applies to special support needs for adhd, autism or other, and that there are many parents and children who are fond of those offers. I think that is also part of the picture. This does not change the fact that every time someone gets stuck, it has to be put in. However, this requires close dialogue and a desire for cooperation between all parties in order to find good solutions. The questioner asks if there are sufficient tools to support the municipalities in their work. I have the impression that it is there, but if there is any disagreement about the decision on what to do, it will, unfortunately, take longer. But that doesn't change the fact that if you as a parent still don't see you get the solution you want as a parent, you can complain. That's why you'd rather never get to where it goes in a knot and there are a number of tools you can use for that collaboration to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165952	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203165953	Yes, it is very frustrating, because I just don't think I get any clear answers. I get a lot of things to hear about the set of rules. It can then be said that good cooperation must also go both ways, that is to say. I do not know whether the Minister thinks that good cooperation is good, if only one always agrees with what is offered by the help of the municipalities, or whether it is also the case that the words of the parents should be given a high weight. So what's a good cooperation? After all, these children and families need the holistic effort, and we need to look at the whole palette. But I have to say that I do not see the Minister responding to the questioner in any way whatsoever here. The Minister believes that there are sufficient tools and that they can just be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170048	Unfortunately, it is sometimes the case that agreement is not reached. Fortunately, in the vast majority of cases, good solutions are found which require close parental involvement and close cooperation between the professional in the municipality and the parents on a good solution for the children. Fortunately, this is the case in the vast majority of cases, but there are times when there is no agreement on it. That is why I emphasise that there is a regulatory framework that ensures how to be involved. There is also a way of complaining if you do not agree with the resolution if it ends, as it unfortunately does sometimes, with stabbing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170120	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We move on to Question 17, and it is addressed to the Minister for Health and the Prevention of Mrs Sophie Løhde, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170137	Thank you. And I shall start by reading the question: what is the attitude of the government to the fact that there are major regional differences in waiting times in the field of cancer when, for example, there are. patients need to be scanned, and what does the government intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170150	Well, fortunately things are progressing in the field of cancer, and yesterday Berlingske could write that there have never been so few deaths from a cancer. The latest figures for the third quarter show that 83 per cent. of patients get through the cancer packages within the deadlines recommended by the Danish Health Authority. That's 11 percent. more than when we started to monitor the area in 2012 with effect from 2013. In order to further strengthen efforts, over the next four years the government will invest over 1 billion. kr. in better cancer treatment, and a large part of the money is specifically earmarked for increased capacity, for more scans and examinations in hospitals. This should help both to reduce waiting lists and to offset regional differences so that patients can get even earlier into treatment and survive their cancer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170258	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170259	It is, of course, very good that we in Denmark have come a long way in the field of cancer. This is not least due to the massive investment and priority made by the VK government in introducing the cancer packages, etc., which has contributed so much to reducing waiting times. At the same time, however, the positive aspect cannot completely ignore the fact that there is also a reverse of the medal, namely the fact that in the country's hospitals today there are several thousand cancer patients who are not being treated on time. Nor can we ignore or ignore the fact that today there is a very large geographical inequality in Denmark in relation to patients' ability to actually receive treatment on time. For the Left, the huge differences between the hospital departments in relation to the possibilities for treatment are totally unacceptable, and that is also why we in the Left are proposing an ambitious increase in the cancer area. Why? Because it must not be as it is today, that it is in a number of cancers that it is your zip code that determines how good and how fast a treatment is received as a patient. At the same time, I have to say that, despite the fact that in some areas progress is being made, there are also a number of areas where progress is being made. If you look at what among other things... The fight against cancer has been instrumental in reporting on this, you can see that they are among other things. points out that there has been no convincing progress in recent years under this government, and paragraph 2 states that the differences between the regions are actually increasing. It's not something I've come up with, it's something the Cancer Fight says. Last week we also saw a number of very sad examples of patients who have lost their lives at an all too young age as a result of cancer, among other things. because they were not scanned in time and thus did not have the opportunity to get a diagnosis in time. So what will the Minister do to ensure that in hospitals there is actually sufficient scanner capacity to be able to make a quick analysis now that the government has only chosen to allocate a small amount to the cancer area next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170521	I think it is wrong to say that there is no convincing progress. When it is such that in the first quarter of 2013 came 72%. of patients through within the recommended standard runtime, and that the figure has now risen to 83% in the third quarter of 2014, I do not think it can be said that this is not a convincing advance. I think it demonstrates that things are going the right way. I would also like to say that I find the regional difference worrying. But here too, fortunately, things are going in the right direction. The difference between the region that is doing the best and the region that is doing the worst is, after all, systematically narrowed down during the period when, because of this government, we did not have to guess what it is actually going to be like, but have been able to keep track of what it actually looks like.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170622	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170624	Thank you for the reply from the Minister. It would have been nice to have an answer to the question I asked, namely that we should now, for example, be able to do so. Last week these very, very sad examples of some young people who lost their lives all too soon as a result of cancer, among others. because they had not been scanned in time, what is it that one will do to ensure that there is the necessary scanning capacity so that patients do not come on a long waiting list and that they are not constantly being rejected, but actually get the opportunity to get the rapid diagnosis in time, even when they have some unclear symptoms? But I asked specifically about the scanning capacity, now that the government thinks it is only necessary to allocate a small amount of money to the cancer area next year. So does the Minister believe that with the amount allocated by the government next year, the necessary and sufficient resources have been found to ensure that there is the adequate MRI capacity which the regions are going out and saying they are missing, while at the same time we can see that there are private hospitals that say that they actually have spare scanning capacity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170737	It got a little messy. I will try to answer that, but there was a lot of information, also wrong information, and there were a lot of questions, but I will try to fight through it for the sake of the questioner and for the sake of the other people present in the Chamber, whom I see are extremely interested in the answer here, and then, of course, for the sake of the viewers. One of the most important things in getting on the road to reducing cancer is, in the opinion of the government, that we are getting better at detecting the disease faster and that we are getting better at putting people into treatment, and that happens by putting an opportunity, duty on the practitioners to make an extra effort, tools to do so, and it also happens by increasing the capacity of hospitals to take care of the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170835	Then it's the enquirer, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170838	Thank you. Now, in a couple of rounds, the Minister has glowed at not answering the question. What I have at least understood so far is that the regional difference worries the Minister and that 17 per cent do not actually receive the correct treatment when we talk about cancer patients and cancers. That is so worrying. So far, the Minister has said: yes, we have promised a great deal, but next year it will not be much. My specific question, when we talk about MRI scans and how we can increase capacity, is whether the Minister intends to involve private actors in order to increase the scanning capacity we have, so that we can overcome the pressure on public hospitals and we can reduce waiting times. What specific action will the Minister take to involve private operators in this field?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203170946	I simply disagree, and I think it is a poor assessment of our health services to say that it is not going to be much. I know from my contacts with our health services, with doctors, with nurses, with people who are dedicated to this, that we are making a huge effort and will make a huge effort, and I have also noted that the fight against cancer has endorsed the efforts that the government is now making for the money that has been set aside in the Finance Act and which will mean real improvements. It may not fit into the Left's attack manual on how to draw the world, but in reality there is a great recognition that this is going to happen; this is going to mean something to cancer treatment in Denmark. So for that one, the Left has been more generous financially. When you say that, you just have to stick to the fact that the Left with one hand gives money, but with the other hand takes money from the regions, which means that this generosity will not be nearly as great as the one you want to give the impression of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171059	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171100	I know, of course, that the Minister feels bad about the fact that the Left will actually spend twice as much money on cancer treatment in 2015 than the government wants. I know the Minister is uncomfortable with that, but what I asked was whether the Minister will involve private hospitals in helping to increase overall capacity when it comes to MR scans. We need to have a strong public health service. We are, in fact, very much in agreement with that, but when we have patients on the waiting lists who die, my question to the Minister is whether we cannot include any of the private hospitals that actually have capacity and that can actually help reduce waiting lists. That was quite the simple question, and I have not received an answer to that, so it is now repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171145	I really feel like that money is going where we get the most out of it. It may be that we have to buy scanner capacity from private people. It may be necessary to extend the working period during which the individual scanner works. It may be that new scanners need to be purchased. For me, putting patients at the centre is crucial. Unlike the Left, I will not privatise, not overpayment just to create a market for private hospitals. I am focused on patients and on how we provide patients with the best possible service.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171221	Mrs Sophie Løhde for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171224	I can hardly help pulling the smile tape. It was, however, a lot of accusations we had to bring in the last round. However, there was one thing I agreed with: we need to have more health for the money. I guess that's one of them. Therefore, the Social Democratic Regional Council chairman of the Central Jutland Region says that when he buys MR scans, he gets more than twice as much by buying it privately than if he has to produce it himself. Now I do not know if the Minister was gone all last week, but the Minister was then on TV to comment on some of these cases that were at one time in the field of cancer. Now, quite quickly, I am refreshing what was the problem. A number of patients had not been scanned on time. The regions reported out: We plan to purchase more scanning capacity, but we lack acute MRI scans; that is what alleralmost pressure is on. At the same time, there are a number of available MRI scanners on a private basis, and then we just ask the Minister quite quietly: could it not be reasonable for patients to actually do something to reduce waiting times and make sure that they could get through the rapid investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171332	I simply do not share the belief that we should go to the private sector for the sake of the private sector. We must put patients at the centre and if the regions can buy capacity from private people, then go ahead! For me, do it! What interests me is that we have to choose the tools in the specific situation that provide the best possible treatment for our patients, and not be so focused on whether it is private or public, and especially not moving back in the situation that we had under the previous government, where, in order to create a private market artificially, an overpayment is simply paying too much for a service that could otherwise be provided, just because you want to create a private market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171422	Thank you. That was the end of Question 17. Question 18 is addressed to the Minister for Health and Prevention, and it has also been asked by Mrs Sophie Løhde from the Left. Sir. Hans Andersen is also a co-author on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171435	Thank you for that, President. The question is: does the government believe that there is a need to reduce waiting times in the field of cancer, and how will the government ensure that we in Denmark do not end up in major capacity problems due to poor planning in the area of cancer?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171448	We have reduced the waiting times for operations, so they are the shortest ever. This also applies to cancer. In addition, over the next four years, we are going to set aside 1.1 billion. kr. to a new cancer plan focusing on diagnoses earlier. It is surely a plan that is fully funded, not just for one year, but for all four years within a responsible economic policy. For the truth is that the economic policy pursued in recent years has given us an opportunity to make a special effort here, has given us an opportunity to do something special. There we have chosen to say that instead of giving tax relief or overpayment to private people or others, we would like to ensure that the money comes to the best possible use, among other things. in the field of cancer. That is why we are also proposing a significant increase in the capacity for cancer treatment and testing in hospitals and in the diagnostic centres in the regions. This means, in concrete terms, that the cost of diagnosis of cancer is increased by 15-20 per cent. in relation to the current level, which one has to say is a significant boost. In addition, funding for increased capacity for cancer surgery will be further prioritised in selected areas. As part of the plan, we have set ourselves the ambitious goal that three out of four will survive cancer by 2025, which is a significant boost compared to the level at which we are at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171640	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171641	Thank you, Minister. It would also have been nice to have an answer to what is actually going to be done, and thus also an answer to the question I have asked. But it is very telling to this government that you have been busy making a whole lot of promises to the Danes that the government will not then deliver on, and it must be said that this is completely similar to the situation before the 2011 parliamentary elections, where the Socialists were also doing the same thing. But I have actually asked this question on the basis of the latest data from cancer monitoring. You clearly show that things are going the right way in some areas, but there are certainly also areas where things are not going the right way, and so it does not help that the Minister will only focus on what is positive and then completely does not care about those patients who are not receiving the treatment that they should have received every day. According to the monitoring, it is clear that there are problems in a number of areas, and thus there are many cancer patients who do not receive treatment within the time recommended by doctors. We must say that this is particularly bad for patients with bladder and kidney cancer. In fact, in two years it has not been possible to improve conditions for patients with cancers in the urinary tract, no matter how rosy a picture the minister tries to draw from the real world. The fact is that only one in two patients with kidney cancer receive treatment on time, while in this way it is even worse if you are a patient and have bladder cancer. Here it is one in four patients who receive treatment within the time recommended by doctors. I'll repeat it again: it's one in four patients. That is simply not good enough. And if we combine the picture and the fact that there has not been a positive development over the last two years in this area, with the fact that we know that there are significantly more cancer patients in the future, then I would ask the Minister to explain why the government is so stubbornly insisting that there is no need to undertake the necessary planning work in the form of a cancer plan IV, which ensures that we can take into account the development and thus ensure that as many patients as possible, not only tomorrow, but also in the years to come, will receive the treatment on time as they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203171906	Thank you for recognising that this is going the right way. In fact, I think that we in the Danish Parliament should agree to welcome the fact that fewer people are not treated on time for their cancer, that the government has succeeded in getting the extra money needed. It is clear, of course, that when the questioner takes out individual areas and says that here things are going badly, and you have an average where you can see that things are going significantly better, there will of course be a number of areas where things are going better. Otherwise it wouldn't be possible. This is true, for example. breast cancer with a clear improvement, prostate cancer with a clear improvement, lung cancer with a clear improvement and head and neck cancer also with an improvement. As far as birthmark cancer is concerned, we are up to 97%. Moreover, there is a very, very small regional difference. Then the questioner mentioned the cancer of the bladder and said that only one in four is treated within the standard duration. There I just have to say that it is one in three and you get the impression that the questioner would really want things to go worse when the figures are drawn worse than they really are. I think there is reason to welcome the fact that the efforts we are making for cancer patients are working.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172032	Thank you. Then Mrs. Sophie Løhde is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172035	I have to say that I believe that all the many thousands of cancer patients and their relatives who every year experience that they are not being treated on time do not stand and poke the flag at home and say: then it is good that there are some things that have succeeded. I think they are asking: what can be done to ensure that patients like me get on time, that patients after me, if you have cancer, for example. the bladder, so do not wait unnecessarily long to get into treatment. Let me read from a quote from the Director of the Danish Cancer Society, who says: It has been documented that very soon there will be large increases in the number of Danes who get cancer, and I can be quite concerned when I see that so few patients on, among others. the urological area is treated on time. Now is the time to embark on a new effort called the cancer plan IV, so that we make sure that there is enough capacity for the many cancer patients who are unfortunately coming forward. Then I ask again: why is it that the Minister not only disagrees with the Left but also with the fight against cancer that it is high time we did something about this and then instead continue to reject a proposal for a cancer plan IV?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172146-2	Well, to me, it's not so crucial what we call it. So, call it the cancer plan IV, call it what you want; for me it is crucial that we do make the government have set 1.1 billion. kr. This will mean that we will be able to make our treatment for cancer even better over the next four years, which is also recognised by the fight against cancer. Just as I am delighted that waiting lists for operations in Denmark at all are shorter than they have ever been before, and it is to the satisfaction of our patients and to the satisfaction of those who are in that situation that they suffer from a disease and need that we, the community, take care of them. We do, and fortunately we are getting better and better at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172231	Then it's the co-questioner, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172233	Thank you. The minister says it's not so crucial what the plan is called, as long as something happens. But it's not gonna happen enough. There isn't. We have been confirmed here today that it is very small with the amounts in 2015, and otherwise patients can go and wait until 2016, 2017 and 2018 and hope for the best. I am delighted that the SF said on the other day that they supported the cancer plan IV proposed by the Left. It is positive when other parties support a proposal put forward by the Left. But I understand that even if SF had raised the wish during the budget negotiations, it was not a wish that could be met by the government. It had been rejected. And then the question is: why would the government also reject a request by the SF to implement a cancer plan IV?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172342	It's excellent that there are co-questions on it. It sounded just for a moment, and of course there is nothing wrong with it as if the co-questioner came from the SF and not from the Left Party, but if I know Hans Andersen right, then he still belongs to the Danish Liberal Party, the Left Party, so I will reply on the basis that that party relationship has not changed. I can see that the questioner is on the verge of nodding, so I assume that is true. Well, the point is here, it's not that crucial what we call it. What is crucial is what we do; if we do something, we get hold of the practitioners so that they discover cancers more quickly so that we can find out more quickly how to get people figured out, and what is needed? And are we doing something so that we can deal more quickly with those who have cancers? Yes, we do, and it is therefore, regardless of how you turn it and turn it, notoriously priority, and the best thing about it, and I think we can all be happy about that, even though the Left is not part of the Finance Act... is that real money has been set aside, not fantasy money, not some money that is being spent with one hand and taken with the other hand, but real money to improve the conditions of cancer patients next year and the years after.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172456	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172457	But is it not basically about the fact that the government simply did not have the money to implement the cancer plan IV proposed by the Left? The money allocated to cancer for 2015 in the government's financial bill and the financial bill that has now been concluded are so few that it would be a very, very small cancer plan IV if that were the starting point. That is one question. Or is it just that the government here does not want to prioritize the cancer area in time? Time's ticking, and the patients are waiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172539	It's quite surreal to stand here and have put so much money to improve the cancer effort... it's recognized by everyone outside these nice-ass windows... and then meet a Left who says we don't want to acknowledge that. We do not want to face reality; we want reality to look different. But the reality is that extra money has been set aside for the reality of the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172614	Then it is Mrs Sophie Løhde with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172618	The reality is that next year the government has set aside 180 million. kr. to the cancer area. The reality also appears to be that the Left has set aside twice as much for cancer next year. I am well aware of this is not a reality which the Minister of Health likes, because it is not nice at first to consistently refuse to implement a cancer plan IV, which everyone, not least the fight against cancer, says is necessary, and then to have to admit that it is not very ambitious when it comes to sending some money with it and the fine words and promises you otherwise make. What matters is what we do, says the Minister. The only problem is that the government doesn't do much. That is why I ask the Minister: what is the main argument for the government to consistently refuse to implement a cancer plan IV, to give patients a patient-responsible doctor, so that we can also ensure that we make sure that Danish cancer patients and their relatives receive a treatment on time and that we get more tracked down on time so that we can also implement the treatment more quickly and thus ensure better cancer survival in Denmark? What is the Minister's main argument that we should not now ensure that we do not end up with huge cancer capacity problems, because this government did not want to undertake the necessary planning work in time, as everyone else in the real world says there is a need?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172748	It is a bit weird again: the questioner paints a picture of a policy that is not ours and asks why we have that policy. But that is not our policy. Our policy is that 1.1 billion has been set aside. kr. of over the next four years to improve treatment in the field of cancer. We have said that the practitioners must be better able to target the detection of cancer in time. We have set aside resources to ensure that there is capacity in hospitals to make this effort, so that there will be significant progress in the field of cancer, which is also recognised by everyone other than the Left Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172830	That was the end of Question 18. Thank you to the Minister for Health and Prevention and Mrs Sophie Løhde. Then I should like to inform you that Question 19 to the Minister for Business and Growth by Mr. Flemming Damgaard Larsen (V) is deleted. The next question is Question 20 to the Minister for Trade and Development by Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and there is a questioner, Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left, with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172856	Thank you for that, President. I read the question out loud: does the Minister believe that it is possible to cut development aid without any significant consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203172905	Thank you very much for the question, because it gives me the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to state what I have said very, very many times, namely that we cannot make savings on development aid without having consequences. Of course, it will have consequences for the many people in developing countries whom Denmark every day helps for a better life if you cut development aid. Well, I'm a little surprised that Mr. Knox... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asks this question to the government when the government has no plans to cut development aid. It was, of course, a question that the Left should be asking itself, because it is the Left that believes that our development aid should be reduced to 0.7%. This means that we have to go in and find 21⁄2 billion. DKK, which must be reduced in relation to Denmark's efforts towards the world's poorest. And the Left does not in any way point to where you want to cut and who you want to suffer, and I am not going to help the Left to find an explanation for that, because it will have significant consequences if you cut development aid. You can be absolutely sure of that. What the government is doing is relocating our aid funds. It's not a saving. Together with SF and Enhedslisten, as part of the Finance Act, we have even found an extra billion kroner, so the aid rate in 2015 is 0.87%. of GNP in relation to the 0.83% that it represents today. And it is a temporary change in an extraordinary situation, as the questioner well knows, where we have an unlikely high number of refugees who are currently coming to Denmark because of a major, widespread crisis in the world, where we have the largest number of refugees since the Second World War. And that situation is fundamentally different from the plans of the Left to cut development aid, because these are permanent savings which will have far more serious consequences for the world's poorest.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173124	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173126	I should like to begin by welcoming the Minister's view of the re-prioritisation or re-allocation, as the savings are called, as a temporary measure, because the Minister thus seems to have a knowledge that this extraordinary refugee situation will be over in a year's time. I am sure there are many of us who are delighted by the people who are affected by the terrible events. But when I ask in this way, it is because the minister's party, together with the rest of the parties in the red bloc, has in the past meant something else about development aid. For when a similar situation existed in 2010, a similar situation existed in which the then and in many ways excellent VK government would re-allocate money from development aid aimed at our partner countries for the reception of asylum seekers," says S, SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten, voting against the act, as it is generally not considered that additional expenditure in the area of asylum should be financed by development aid. And they add that the technical classification of asylum treatment as development aid makes it neither more reasonable nor sensible to postpone or reduce activities among the world's poorest in order to finance the asylum system in Denmark. Does the Minister still think this, or does the Minister think that the government is acting as it stands, unfairly and unreasonablely in the present situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173254	I do not think the author refers to any statements I have made. But let me just say and clear it up for everyone that it is no new thing that you are using development aid to fund refugee expenditure in Denmark. We have been doing this for very, very many years under changing governments. What is the difference between the past and this year is that we see very, very many refugees coming to Denmark now, which means that the amount we are going to use of the aid is the greater. However, I can explain that when it was the case that we and a number of parties then turned against the government suddenly wanting to spend a large amount of aid on refugees at that time, it was because the Left Government had at that time made substantial savings on aid and wanted to make other savings on aid. In this situation, we did not think it was right that we should continue to support the financing of refugee expenditure as well. So there is a very big difference between the situation we have today, with a government that actually raises aid, and a government that at that time wanted to cut aid and had already done so. And hence the difference. But I think the questioner still has to answer the consequences for Danish development aid that the Left will save 21⁄2 billion. kr. We think we could clear that up here today in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173423	Now it is the Minister who answers questions and not the questioner who answers questions from the Minister. But now it's mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173431	Thank you for that, President. Then I shall not remind the Minister, after the Prime Minister has confused the Rules of Parliament with the Rules of Jeopardy, that this is not the way it is. It is I who ask the questions; it is the Minister who answers. So the Minister believes that it is responsible for the government's reprioritisation of development aid. The government and the Minister initially proposed a saving of exactly 2.5 billion. This is ironically the same amount that we in the Left wanted to cut development aid by, whereas it is wrong and obscene and, I should understand correctly, also impossible when we in the Left say that we want to make savings on development aid of 2.5 billion. kr. Can the Minister understand if he, as an observer from outside, thinks that it is a bit double moral and a bit hypocritical?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173518	I think I am answering the questions I am being asked, but that is why I think we can have an exchange of views. I hope that the questioner is also prepared to do so, because I believe that listeners and listeners would like to know what the Left too thinks. I would certainly like to try to get it out. On the question, however, I can say that there is a crucial difference between whether, as the Left, you want to make direct cuts in foreign aid for 2.5 billion. I should like to ask you whether you are doing what the government is doing to convert some money into expenditure on refugees within the aid framework. The reality of the Left's proposal will be that, in addition to having to redistribute 2.5 billion. kr. in direct cuts should find 2.5 billion. kr. That's 5 billion. kr., which will be the consequence of the aid. It is, of course, fair to know in some way how this is to happen, where that money is to be found, who is to hold up. I can't answer that, although I would, of course, like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173621	Then it's the enquirer, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173626	Thank you, Mr President. After all, the minister is a man who has the floor in his power. I would like to say so much in favour of the Minister. I have read up to several speeches from the Minister's hand, where the Minister tells both readers and other interested parties that it is in Denmark's great national interest to kick the door into new markets, also using aid crowns. I agree with that. The Liberal Group agrees with this, and I think the Danish business community agrees with that. Now my good colleague Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen has spent some of his time pointing out how the Minister's party and the Minister themselves have spent many calories criticizing the Left and then proposing a savings catalogue. It is a level of savings similar to what we have presented. Now I understand that the current savings will cost well over 130 million. kr. on the business effort that we help Danish companies with, but above all, the developing countries help with. Can the Minister not see that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173729	This government and I, as a minister, are starting from the fact that it is incredibly important that we also help developing countries to build a private sector with aid funds. There is no doubt that this is the way to help those countries to provide production and a private sector that enables one to finance oneself as a society. That's why helping, among other things. Danish companies on their way to investing in developing countries are crucial and very important for the development of the countries. It also has the advantage that it can give some jobs and some growth at home in Denmark. When, as part of the financial agreement, we and I have agreed to the finding of 132 million. kr. It is because I have had to stop using parts of the business instruments because we have had an evaluation that says that the instruments do not work in part and that they may also conflict with the EU's state aid rules. That is why I have had to set up instruments and we will not have payments at the level we would like to have in 2015, but we will come back with new instruments that will benefit and ensure that Danish companies too can contribute to the development of developing countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173857	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173859	I have to say that it is convenient for the Minister that when the sawing knife is sharpened, there are also instruments that are no longer current and can therefore be removed. This, of course, relieves the Minister, whom I had actually suspected of being on an ideological crusade in this area. Of course, with the knife of savings being found, some of the areas involved in business are the ones that lie at stake. Of course, I am glad that is not the case. I actually suspected the Minister might have suspected that. But it would be nice if the Minister confirmed that development aid was primarily about the devoured image of teaching people how to fish so that in the future they can take care of themselves instead of providing only emergency aid as a continuous political development. Does the Minister not really think that priority should be given to vocational assistance in other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203173948	As I said, there has been an evaluation going on for a very, very long time of these business instruments. Some have been working for a long time. We have also made some changes along the way. That evaluation is made by independent people, whom I have nothing to do with. It shows, therefore, that the instruments have built in some weaknesses which simply do not create enough jobs in developing countries on the basis of the instruments, and, moreover, they may be in breach of the EU's State aid rules. Then I have no other option when I get something like this on my desk than to say that I am stopping the use of the instruments, and then we are developing new ones, and there we also have money in the budget next year for the new ones to come into use, namely approx. 75 million kr. But I still think it should be borne in mind that there is a party in this Parliament that will cut 2.5 billion. kr. How many of those crowns have to be cut on business assistance? I'd like to get answers from somebody.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174048	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174051	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comments along the way. So I do not have time to answer the Minister's question within 30 seconds; let us have a debate on it elsewhere. However, I can conclude from the Minister's reply that some money is being transferred from development aid aimed at our partner countries, and hence the world's poorest countries, to an area on which the government, when one was not a government but was in opposition, did not mean that we should use aid funds. Is that correct? And is that a little hypocritical?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174126	This government, like other governments before us, including socialist-led governments, is entirely in agreement with the fact that we are using aid funds to finance refugee expenditure in Denmark. The government has been doing this for many years, and the governments of other countries are doing so. But it is clear that there is a difference between raising aid and having an ambition to increase aid, or whether the aid is being drastically reduced, as the questioner's party did in the past when it was in government, and thus, I think, it was legitimate to say that it was not even necessary to finance refugee expenditure at that time. There is a very, very big difference between that. But I still need answers on what these are for areas to be cut down on if the Left wants to cut 2.5 billion. kr. in addition to 2.5 billion in aid. kr. to be changed. It might be nice to get an answer to that; I think there are many who would like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174223	Thank you. The Left must answer that at another time, perhaps in the form of a speech in a newspaper or whatever it may be; you never know that. But that was the end of the question. The last question on the agenda has also been put to the Minister for Trade and Development, and it has also been put to him. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. There was also a fellow questioner, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, but he is not present, and therefore it will be without question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174251	Thank you for that, President. My second question is this: how does the Minister see the reserve of 0.5 billion? kr. As a result of 2015, if the costs of receiving asylum seekers do not fall?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174305	I must also thank you for this question. Firstly, I would like to say a little about the timing of this coinage. It is of course the case that we have to go up to September before we get an updated estimate of the consumption that will be in relation to the reception of asylum seekers. It will then be possible to determine what part of the expenditure we can also count as development aid. So we will have reached the autumn before we know the exact figure and can put the exact budget and thus also find out how much of the negative reserve is to be implemented. It is clear that when we start the year with a negative reserve of 0.5 billion. I have an obligation as Minister to make sure that in the autumn there are so many outstanding appropriations that it is possible to translate these 0.5 billion. kr., and that requires a slightly tighter financial management, and it also requires us to be a little more reluctant to spend in the first half of the year, and we will be. However, how we are going to approach a possible re-priority at that time, it is far too early to say anything about now, because it also depends on how the development of our activities is going in 2015, because the questioner knows just as well as I do that our development work is dynamic and that you work under difficult conditions. So it is not everything we have planned from the start of the year that will end up being ready for implementation or being translated into the order of magnitude that might have been imagined. So we will normally use that means to advance or upgrade other activities or perhaps to launch completely new initiatives. So there, in 2015 in such situations, I will have to constantly consider whether we should wait to re-allocate funds or set new things in motion until we have the final figures for the expenditure on refugee reception that needs to be counted as development aid. If that were to happen, the payment of the negative reserve would go beyond a great many activities, which therefore cannot be achieved, and that would have consequences. However, as has already been mentioned, it is an extraordinary situation that we find ourselves in, with a very large number of refugees worldwide, who are therefore also looking for Denmark. But I will endeavour to make such a saving as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174537	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174538	I am glad that the Minister recognizes that it is possible to make such savings, and I also hear the Minister say that one must then see what it is that one should not set in motion. When we have debated situations like this in the past, where the Left has proposed savings, and we call them what they are, namely savings; we dare stand by the things we say; otherwise the Left has been accused of running off the square, then the Minister has criticized the Left for wanting to run off the square, etc. But it's fine that we have to. It is quite convenient that it is just September that we have to come to, because by 14 September, or if it is 15 September, we have an election to the Folketing, and then this new exercise of a negative reserve, as the Minister puts it, lies as a fine little morning present, waiting for the government that may be after an election, whether it is the minister's government that continues or whether it is a government that is made up of another party in this Parliament. So, in good Danish: you have to find some crowns that you need. Is it the expression of a responsible fiscal policy that we are currently saying that we are counting on spending 1.5 billion? kr., but you wait to find the last half billion more after a parliamentary election, where it might not be your problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174700	I think it is very common sense to wait until we see whether we need to find those savings. I think that is how it is in ordinary households; you don't start saving in advance if you don't know if you need to save. And you can't say that in the first third of the year. One has to reach the second half of the year, when one can begin to see how consumption has been, so as to be able to determine whether one is going to spend the money that was promised or to find some more. So I actually think that's very logical. There is no doubt that any further savings of 0.5 billion could be made. kr. will have consequences, but it is absolutely nothing compared to the consequences it will have if we make the savings of 2.5 billion. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174758	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174801	Yeah, yeah, but now I'm still the one asking the questions. I think this is an interesting perspective and there is at least a difference between my economy at home privately and the Minister's • because this is because you don't have to save in advance if you don't know if it's necessary, just because you expect it to be necessary, excuse me, but that's not how I put the budget, and I wouldn't advise the Minister to do that either. And that is not in line with the precautionary principle which the Minister of Finance has otherwise introduced to the current government. With it is very nice to see that the true face of the government now appears that way, and that you spend money well away that you don't know if you have, because you can find them at a later stage, if necessary. But is it not really contrary to the government's precautionary principle to fund this half-billion which is supposed to be used as a reserve after it may have been used, or does the precautionary principle not apply when it can be postponed until after a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203174901	As far as my private economy is concerned, I can say that I am organizing it in such a way that I can keep a complete house with what I have of revenue and what I have of expenditure and adjust my consumption accordingly. Not all politicians feel that way, you have to understand, but I do not want to interfere with that, by the way. What I just want to say is that, when we reach September, we can decide whether or not we will need the extra half billion which has been proposed here. If we do that, we will find the money • we have plenty of opportunity to do so in relation to consumption in the second half of the year. If we do not need to find the savings, it is only good for all of us because more activities can then be carried out for the benefit of the world's poorest. Well, it's a completely different situation to be in than if Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen came into government and was about to find savings for 2.5 billion. kr. in addition to a restructuring of aid in relation to financing refugee expenditure. Where is that money to be found? Is it on the humanitarian effort, the community effort, in Syria, in Iraq, in relation to the fight against child mortality, is it in relation to the Ebola effort? Where is that money to be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203175019	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203175020	So these are questions for the ministers, and I have not yet reached that point in my career plan. The minister says there are plenty of opportunities to find this money. There are plenty of possibilities to do that, i.e. to find this further saving. And it is good to know, if anyone else should come into government, that the Socialists see it that way. There are plenty of places where you can find half a billion. If there is, and if there are plenty of five, then you have recovered 2.5 billion. kr., and then we've solved the problem. Where are we gonna find this half-billion? Where are they plenty of places to find it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141203175100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203175103	If we put it up a little black and white, we have 12 billion. kr. available during the year, something in the vicinity of it. Then you spend the 6 billion. kr. in the first half of the year, and then you spend the other 6 billion. kr. in the second half of the year. Out of the 6 billion. kr. of course you can find 0.5 billion. kr. What is the difference between the questioner and me is that I find that it has significant consequences if you are going to find 0.5 billion. kr. This is going to affect some of the very poorest, the weakest countries in the world, and I am not really interested in that. But it is necessary to finance the large refugee flows, we can see perhaps also coming to Denmark during 2015. After all, this is a much, much more lenient task than it is when the questioner is about to find for 2.5 billion. kr. savings in the world's poorest and vulnerable, in the immediate areas, in the fight against child mortality, in ebola, in wherever you want to take the money, which is what the Left wants to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203175210	Thank you. That was the end of the question. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141203175219	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 4 December 2014, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
