ParlaMint-DK_20141125130000	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Per Clausen (EL) and others.: Question No. F 10 (What initiatives will the government take to support the shared economy and help overcome the barriers and problems arising from its spread?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130028	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 4 of Finn Thranum (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Jep Mikkelsen (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Mette Bock (LA) and Lars Barfoed (KF), and voting is now possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 90 votes (V, S, RV, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 21 votes (DF and EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 4 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 3 of Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Stine Brix (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130132	Does anyone wish to comment on this matter? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130214	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130248	The debate is open. Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130311	Thank you. L 77, which we are dealing with first here today, is a bill that sets the framework for the Danish Nature Fund. In connection with the 2014 Finance Act, the Social Democracy, the SF, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party and we in the Left entered into an agreement to establish the Danish Nature Fund together with the VILLUM FUND and Aage V. Jensen Nature Fund. After a rather harsh and long birth, the framework of the independent natural fund has finally reached the legislative process here in the Parliamentary Chamber. The Nature Fund, which was among the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, must be politically independent and have its own board of directors. The Danish Nature Fund is to strengthen Danish nature and popular support for the work on nature restoration and nature conservation, and it has been crucial that the Danish Nature Fund is independent and that the Nature Fund has a broad popular foundation. We know that the VILLUM FUND and Aage V. Jensen Nature Fund hopes that in the long term the Danish Nature Fund will be able to engage the general population in natural resources in Denmark. This is already happening, for example. countries such as the UK and the Netherlands. Thousands of people are actively involved in nature work in similar national natural funds. In these countries too, there are many private people who choose to donate money or, for that matter, time to nature. I myself took part in a trip with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on a visit to Britain just to hear and see how people can be involved in nature care. I very much hope that the fund's board of directors will also succeed at home, in Denmark, in the same way. Indeed, I believe that when the projects grow up together and grow up from below, and when farmers, forest owners, green organisations and foundations in cooperation achieve a goal, it will be a success from the start, and the joy will be even greater and spread to even more. I am convinced that the Danish Nature Fund will contribute positively to the Danish nature. The Fund is a new and exciting initiative in the field of nature policy, which is why I look forward very much to seeing the results of the Fund's work once they are available. I hope that the Fund will focus its efforts where necessary. There are now large areas that require nature care, and I hope that the Danish Nature Fund will focus initially on making a positive difference between these areas rather than starting to buy good agricultural land. It is essential that we cultivate the nature that we already have and that needs to be nurtured. We in the Left have a few clarification questions in the legislative work itself, which I will of course ask here after the first reading. As mentioned, the Left is one of the parties to the agreement behind the establishment of the Danish Nature Fund, which is why we naturally also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130647	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Torben Hansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125130701	It is often said from this platform by various rapporteurs that it is a historic legislative proposal that is being discussed right now, and then it is spicy with praise. Today it is not overestimating and obscene speech. Today I would like to say that it is quite right to call it a historic bill, because with this bill we are setting up the Danish Nature Fund. With the creation of this fund, both Danish history and natural history are written. Social democracy has wanted this fund and strongly supports the proposal. With 875 million. kr. in the coming years in the start-up baggage, the fund will and will invest in a richer and more diverse nature. The foundation must work for more nature in Denmark, and it is the result of a visionary and unique cooperation between private foundations and the state. I would like to commend and thank the government, the VILLUM FUND and Aage V. Jensen Nature Fund a lot. The fund is also a direct result of the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which came in April 2013 and the Prime Minister's agreement with the funds in December 2013. The purpose of the fund is, of course, in the law and the observations of the law, but I would like to mention that some of it, among other things. is to purchase land and set aside the land as a nature to protect endangered species, to ensure a good aquatic environment, and it is also very, very important that the fund has a central and independent purpose to strengthen popular anchoring and support for work on nature restoration and nature conservation. It is a huge victory for nature and the environment. Today, many of our animal and plant species are under threat and the aquatic environment is under pressure. Social democracy will have a cleaner water environment and more coherent nature in Denmark so that species can grow and spread. This is one of the main objectives of Nature Plan Denmark, which we presented four weeks ago, and is also one of the aims of the fund. There we only come with a long-term plan and an unshakable popular commitment. This ensures the fund, which is an independent private business fund, because it is precisely tailored to be able to work with long-term efforts for the benefit of all, because it will also work independently of parliamentary terms and political wins. In other words, it is nature's fund in every possible way. The fund allows everyone to invest in nature. Note the word all, for it is, whether you are a private person, organization, community or municipality, and this hopes and believes Social Democracy will also mean that there will be significantly more money than the 875 million. kr., which the foundation starts with. It is absolutely crucial that we get as many Danes as possible into this fund in the long term, so that they also become even more interested and involved in nature conservation and restoration. Now I hope that this proposal will be adopted in December, so we can say that the fund will run per year. 1 January 2015, so there is no time to waste, and there is certainly reason today to rejoice over this both historical and long-term decision. In those words, it should be clear after the speech that the Social Democrats warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125131056	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Mrs Pia Adelsteen stands ready as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125131106	Thank you. The draft law, as has already been said, is the implementation of an agreement between the government, the Socialist People's Party, the Left and the Conservatives. Although the Danish People's Party did not participate in the adoption of the Finance Act for 2014, I would say that we are wearing the positive glasses when it comes to this fund. It's a good thing that you get some money to get some more nature, get a better aquatic environment and more biodiversity, etc. That's really what the whole purpose is here. The government is paying 0.5 billion. kr. available, and then there are two private foundations, the VILLUM FUND and Aage V. Jensen Nature Fund, which allocates 250 million respectively. kr. and 125 million kr. At the same time, the State will contribute 49 million. kr. in initial capital and for operation in the start-up phase. All this is very good, but nevertheless I have some questions which I hope I can clarify during the committee procedure. At least there are some things that puzzle me. It is very clear that this must be an independent fund. It must be a fund which, like private law, operates as an ordinary fund would do, but at the same time the Minister for the Environment is actually authorised to say that he can appoint all board members, despite the need for independence. This is something I would like to ask you about, at least, because it seems to me that you are losing this independence. I think that's a little weird. I hope that there are some things about the fund that do when the government has drawn up Nature Plan Denmark, which says that there must be some coherent nature, and there must be some areas that will be better nature, that in doing so we will also use the Fund to identify which areas to buy, which areas we, for example, will be buying. will not have grown, where we go in and invest, and what we can use the fund's funds for. That is not how we shall see that something will move in a direction and in a different direction, because that is what we really want to avoid. So I very much hope so. And there will be some clarifying questions about it during the committee work. Finally, I have to admit that there is one thing that puzzles me, and that is when one clearly points out that it is an independent fund that would normally be audited by the State auditors, because there are state funds in it, and then you move it over so that it can be ordinary auditors. That may be okay, but I just don't quite understand how you take a little from one and a little from the other and mix up in one big saucer, you might say. But this should not prevent the Danish People's Party from saying that the purpose of the fund is at least fine. We support the proposal immediately, but we can say that we have a number of clear questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125131430	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Lone Loklinde as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125131446	Then it finally came to the law on the Danish Nature Fund, which helps us to have a better nature, more nature and a better water environment in Denmark. Almost the government had joined before setting up a Committee on Nature and Agriculture, which was given the opportunity to give an opinion on how agriculture can be developed, taking into account both nature and the environment. Nature has long been under pressure from more and more intensive farming, from cross-border air pollution and nutrient leaching, and when the Commission barred in April 2013, one of the remarkable recommendations was to establish a natural fund as a public-private partnership to create projects for the restoration and development of local natural areas, thus ensuring a more diverse nature and better opportunities for experiences around the Danish countryside. With the 2014 Finance Law Agreement concluded with V and K, the Government also concluded, as a follow-up to the Commission's recommendations, a principle agreement with the VILLUM FUND and Aage V. Jensen Naturfond about a fund that can complement and reinforce existing public and private efforts for the natural state and the aquatic environment. The Danish Nature Fund must work to protect, improve and expand existing natural areas. There must be public access, just as it is an independent purpose to ensure local support and anchoring. As Mrs Anni Matthiesen also mentioned, we have seen how it has given a great deal of popular commitment in England. Already from the first day, there have been many expectations of what the Fund should prioritise, and that is why we held back in February in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy a hearing on options and on the vote of expectations. But soon it was to turn out that the very construction of the public-private partnership was the first major challenge. Now, with all due respect, there is a model for setting up the fund as a private business fund which will, in a number of areas, follow the provisions of the administrative law on public access to documents. The fund starts with almost 1 billion. kr. in initial capital, of which EUR 500 million; kr. from the state, 250 million. kr. from the VILLUM FUND and 125 million kr. from Aage V. Jensen Nature Fund. And as soon as it is established, it is intended to seek capital from new investors. Because nature requires long-term investment. It is urgent to get started because it takes a long time to rectify the damage that has been done. Now you can read in Jyllands-Posten today that some parties in the Danish Parliament believe that the government has maintained a focus on nature and the environment to such an extent that the balance has tipped. There we may have long discussions about how we find that balance or what it takes, but there is no doubt that according to the Nature and Agriculture Commission's report we have a delay in getting our nature restored and taken care of. And that is why the Danish Nature Fund Act is a very important and, as the Social Democrats' rapporteur said, a historic step towards establishing a fund that goes far into the future. And it is crucial that as many people as possible, citizens and other stakeholders, become involved in the work with the Danish Nature Fund. So, on the radical side, of course, we are very, very positive about this. We have arms high above our heads.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125131845	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125131858	The Danish Nature Fund, Nature Plan Denmark and the recommendations from the Nature and Agriculture Commission can be the big breakthrough for more nature and biodiversity in Denmark. The really big outstanding issue is the conversion of soil and forestry by means of the many recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission, and thus the success of the many years of trench warfare between users and protectors of nature and the aquatic environment. The fine thing about the recommendations from the Commission is that there is a balance that will benefit both agriculture and nature. Thus the Nature Fund, which is one of the Commission's recommendations. In the SF we are very enthusiastic about the Nature Fund and would like to praise the Minister for the Environment and the foundations behind the agreement for the fine work that has brought us to today for the first reading of the bill. The broad political support for the fund in this Chamber also promises very good for the future of the fund. In addition to securing new natural areas, we are aware that the fund will also develop the biological diversity or biodiversity, as it is also called. For some, it is an airy concept, but it is no more airy than that Denmark has committed itself to turning the current decline in nature and habitats into progress by 2020. The Danish Parliament and the government should not interfere directly with the Foundation's work, but we hope that the Foundation will also work on the principle of starting from nature that can be saved and improved, and not concentrate solely on creating new natural areas that will only receive high natural quality after many years. Although there is also a great need to establish new natural areas, there is also a great potential in improving the quality of the established area, it is indeed a prerequisite for achieving biodiversity objectives. As others have said, the SF is also very excited that we are dealing first with this bill today, we think it is a really big day.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132058	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, and then it is Mr. Villum Christensen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132116	Thank you. When I read the legal notes on this proposal to set up a green fund, I finally had to stop counting how many times it says it is independent and that the Minister for the Environment cannot interfere. Then you get a little bit of concern. It is, of course, a good thing that you have an arm's length principle, but I also see that the board of directors of the fund should be appointed by the Minister, as has already been mentioned by the Danish People's Party, that a secretariat should be set up which will receive a start-up grant of 50 million. kr. and a start-up grant of 0.5 billion. and that a number of the rules of the Administrative Act should also apply so that it is as much as possible similar to a public body, even though it is actually private because of social interests, as has been mentioned. I also see that the fund does not have to replace the many efforts already made in the field of nature, but complements and reinforces the arrangements. The bottom line is therefore the classic: Here comes the goodness people and suggests that the community should not forget to set up another agency with secretariat, bureaucracy and public spending as the safe winners, a classic knock-on that makes public spending grow. This isn't the first time we've seen it. I understand that new and coherent natural areas can be created if we buy up the vulnerable areas, but it seems infinitely what we need in this area, where we already probably belong to the world elite in relation to environmental protection with or without effect, we can say as we do in this country. I have to admit that I find it difficult to understand that there can be no more out of nature management within the existing framework, just as when an independent Climate Council was set up, which would have to do virtually the same thing as the Environmental Economic Council. Well, the goodwill is quite enormous in this area. I would therefore like to clarify in the course of the committee's proceedings what we are already spending on these schemes in the field of nature management and on subsidies for urban projects, etc. I brought such a small report from my own municipality. It's an oar project for 35 million. kr. from the Danish Nature Agency. I can read a lot of reports on environmental quality initiatives, Natura 2000 initiatives and you name it. I gave up taking them all with me, but my point is that we're doing a lot already. And how does coordination take place in this area? How do we ensure that not only do we end up in mass bureaucracy with reports etc. As a result, without having any assurance that we will also have an effect on all this money? As I said before, I can see some advantages in buying up and getting some coherent results from the environmental effort, but I find it hard to see why in here we should always choose to send new money after this and get new bodies and a new regulatory basis. And that is actually my main point, and what concerns me most about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132459	I think there was a brief remark from Mr. Torben Hansen. Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132505	Thank you, sir. President. Well, if we sort of peel away all those traditional and ritual spells from the Liberal Alliance about the secretariat, then the Liberal Alliance can't see, among other things. on the consultation answers, that there is very broad enthusiasm from agriculture at one end to hunters, to the Danish Nature Conservation Association at the other end, yes, that everything that can creep and go at all, actually says that this is what they think is really, really good for Danish nature? Doesn't the Liberal Alliance also recognise the Nature and Agriculture Commission's analysis and recommendations from 2013 where they say that the Danish nature is under pressure and needs help, and that the Danish Nature Fund, which is in this, will be an excellent instrument? The Liberal Alliance does not also recognise that there are two private funds that choose to shoot 375 million. kr. into this because they think it is important and right for Danish nature? So let us now peel away all the ritual spells and hear: what does the Liberal Alliance want in relation to this bill? Will you say yes to more nature, yes to all the consultation answers and yes to the private funds that will help, or will you say no to everything and keep walking around in the wilderness?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132629	Now I am not going to continue with the rhetoric of natural darkness, but only repeat what I have said sometimes when I have had questions from the same rapporteur on such subjects, namely that I think it is good that from in here we just have one party that sometimes asks the question: should we continue along this path of putting money off and finding some goals that are good in my stomach? I think that we are doing this too and setting up a secretariat, creating new rules, applications and so on.? And I also asked in my speech how we can coordinate all these things. I myself am the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in my municipality, and I can guarantee that we already spend a great deal in this area, and it is not always very coordinated. So I just ask the question: is this now the right way to ensure a good nature, which we all want us to have a new agency in this area with not a small amount of money at our disposal? Then it is true that there are private funds too, and I see this as something very positive, of course. But my answer is that sometimes you have to stop and ask if this should keep going out of the same line for an infinity, where you just lean on and create a new knobfire over and over again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132755	Sir. Torben Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132757	Thank you, President. Now, however, the rapporteur says that he himself is the chairman of the committee, and then he says that what is going on is not very coordinated. Well, it's a confession case, so it's kind of clumsy. I think they are happy to know that in the municipality from which the rapporteur comes. But I still need to hear what the Liberal Alliance really wants to hear about this. Is this a proposal that will be put to the vote, or is it a proposal that will be voted against? Here is the idea, of course, that an independent secretariat should be created. Nor can the Liberal Alliance, as the Social Democratic Party can see, see the idea that with this we will actually have a further popular commitment, where Jensen, Pedersen, Hansen, Sørensen, organisations, municipalities, heirs and everyone also have the opportunity to bequeath and bring money to this and ensure that we have a better nature for future generations? Why is it that the Liberal Alliance does not want to be a part of this? I would also like to thank you for your confession about the rapporteur's own municipality. It's rare that we get such direct confessions on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132906	After all, we already have a very large public commitment. My point is that I would like to repeat that it is not certain that we should continue along this path, where we keep on finding new money, getting a new secretariat, a new bureaucracy to achieve some of the same things that we are trying to achieve by many of the other ways we are doing things. And that is really what matters: that from here on in, I think, we should be a little more concerned about whether this is not the second or third time we are trying to do something of the same as we are doing elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132942	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125132949	Thank you. Our beautiful nature is a huge asset for Denmark, it attracts tourists and guests and enriches our everyday life when we remember to appreciate and enjoy it. We must protect our nature, we must preserve it and we have a duty to develop our beautiful nature, including ensuring diversity, wild nature, habitats for our wildlife and much more. We want to pass on the beautiful nature to the next generations, and that requires political and economic priority. That is why we also support the proposal to set up the Danish Nature Fund. The foundation will focus precisely on our beautiful nature; it will cooperate with, among other things. private, municipalities and organisations on projects across the country. We agree that the fund must be subject to the law on commercial funds, but at the same time it is subject to several of the requirements that apply to public administration. That the fund is set up in a public-private partnership between the State, Villum Fonden and Aage V. We welcome Jensen Nature Fund, not least because the two private funds pay 250 million and 125 million respectively. kr. to the Danish Nature Fund. In the Conservative People's Party we see many exciting perspectives in the Foundation's future work, both for Denmark's unique nature, but also for the benefit and joy of us who live here, as well as for those who visit. The fund is innovative and it is a very good project. That is why the Conservative People's Party was also included in the agreement on the fund. So we support the proposal and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125133137	Thank you to the rapporteur. No rapporteur from the Enhedslisten has been present on this matter, or is there, Mr President. Frank Aaen? Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125133158	Yes, I can see that our real rapporteur has not arrived; it is obvious when you look around. I can only say that the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125133209	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125133213	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the broad support for this bill. I think it was a fine speech from the Conservative People's Party that we finally received from the Conservative Party, which really did well to see why it is so important that we protect our common nature. I think that many good and right words have come from the rapporteurs during the debate on this draft law, and I welcome the fact that the rapporteurs present here today recognise the need for further action on nature. I think that's worth holding on to. I think we should welcome the fact that, in considering this proposal, there is, after all, such a broad recognition of exactly the importance of what is the purpose of this proposal. For it is historic, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, that this bill establishes for the first time a large, popular fund aimed at improving our common nature and the aquatic environment in Denmark. It is no more of the same as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says. That's exactly the opposite. It is an innovation that we now have a state contribution together with the contributions of two private foundations, which find common ground in this construction, which, yes, unites elements from the private foundation world and from the public administration in beautiful harmony, I would say on a common purpose which can unite our forces and make a real difference to the Danish nature and which can, hopefully, bring together many more in the work of companies, more foundations, ordinary citizens, organisations and the public sector to make a greater effort for our nature. The government recently presented the Danish Nature Plan, where we also present our vision for the Danish nature. In 2050 Denmark will be a greener country with a more diverse nature, which is better bound together. And to get there, we need more nature, and the nature we have needs to be better, and it needs to be more coherent. The Danish Nature Fund will be an important instrument for making this vision a reality. We have been talking for a long time about taking better care of our nature, and we have been talking for a long time about having more nature, and we have also been talking about a natural fund in the past. It was, as several have also mentioned, a central recommendation from the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which the government set up when we arrived, which, after all, reported back in 2013 and made a number of proposals aimed at ensuring a balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of our profession, ensuring growth in our profession, and, on the other hand, the consideration of our nature. In other words, a natural fund was an important instrument in ensuring that balance. And now we can finally say that we really are putting action behind words. Why is our nature so important? When people are sitting at home in the living room looking out the window, going for a walk in the woods or at the beach, then maybe it's not the kind of burning platform they see in front of them. Isn't nature doing very well? maybe you could ask. But there is the fact, as several rapporteurs have already said, that our nature is under pressure, our species are in decline for many, and we need to create both more space in nature and better coherence precisely to ensure that we can stop the decline in species in Denmark and thus also contribute to the international commitments we have in this area. Of course, it is not least the case that more nature, better nature and more coherence in nature is an advantage for all Danes. For all of us who love to get out into nature in our leisure time and have some good experiences out in nature, yes, that will of course also be a joy. And the many organizations for which nature provides the framework for the communities of the scouts, hunters, anglers and all these organizations, anchored in our nature, also enjoy more nature. So this is also a Community fund, a fund which will contribute to a stronger community in our nature. What, then, are the tasks of the foundation? Yes, the fund must implement projects that create new or better nature. The Fund's projects must also help improve the aquatic environment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The fund will be independent and set up as a private commercial fund, and it will be up to the future board to decide which projects the fund will implement, and this can happen throughout Denmark, where nature and the aquatic environment need it most. We establish the Danish Nature Fund in collaboration with the VILLUM FUND and Aage V. Jensen Nature Fund, and to the two foundations I would like to thank you for making this possible here and for helping to show a whole new way for nature efforts in Denmark. The Nature Fund will have a total initial capital of 875 million. kr., 500 million. kr. from the State and 375 million. kr. from the two funds. This in itself ensures a significant effort, a very good starting point, but it can only be the beginning, because the fund must also work to obtain additional contributions from other parts of Danish society. It may be companies that would like to contribute to their activities in the local area, or foundations that would like to support larger nature projects, but it may also be private citizens who would just like to help make an effort for nature. The fund can thus be the start of an even stronger popular participation in the work of a rich nature and a good environment. It has been crucial to ensure the independence of the fund, and several people have raised this question: is it really an independent fund? This has been important because only independence can ensure that we get more people to contribute voluntarily to the creation of the fund. However, it is important to stress that when the exception to the law on commercial funds is that the minister appoints the board of directors that, of course, it is because there are major public interests in this fund. With half a billion state dollars, it goes without saying that there are also major public interests in this. However, when the board of directors is to be appointed, it will also be on the recommendation of a number of organisations, and in this way there is also a balance in various qualifications which the board members must contribute to the board's work, and in this way there is thus also a variation in what qualifications are to be included in the fund's board of directors. However, as I have said, the great public commitment of course also makes some demands on the management of the fund and its resources, and that is why I am pleased that, together with the funds, we have found a very good balance between independence and the demands we make on the management of the fund, because, despite its private nature, this draft law is subject to management requirements which normally apply to the public administration. For example, the Fund must provide the public with access to its land to an extent which corresponds, as a general rule, to access to publicly owned land. With the Danish Nature Fund, we are therefore setting out to do things in a new way in a large public-private partnership for the benefit of nature, and I would again like to thank you for the broad political support that has been involved in bringing us to this day, thank you to the parties behind the Finance Act, who are helping to provide funding for this. Again, I am glad that in this context we agree that more nature and better nature are of benefit to the Danes and to our nature. To Mr. Villum Christensen I would just like to say in relation to this with more of the same thing I have mentioned a little about the fact that this is an innovation, and I think it should be acknowledged that here we have secured an additional private contribution to our natural work in Denmark, and that is in itself something we should welcome. If we are concerned that we have to spread our responsibilities a little bit, this is precisely an example of how we are also helping to provide additional private funds for this effort. So I think that too, if I hear the Liberal Alliance correctly, should be a purpose that can be supported. More private resources for nature care and new nature must be sweet music in the ears of the Liberal Alliance. I have touched on the issues that were from the Danish People's Party, but of course I also welcome more in committee if there is some of a more technical nature to the bill itself. We have a common task here to create a Denmark with a rich and exciting nature where animals and plants thrive and where we all have good access to use nature. The Nature Fund cannot secure what alone is needed for a long, cool move, but the Nature Fund is a very important step in that direction. The Fund has a great deal of work ahead of it and I hope that it will be able to implement its first projects within the next few years. Thank you for your support for the bill here today and generally in the work on the Nature Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134236	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134252	The debate is open. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left. Whoops!
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134304	That's how you can make your entrance. Oh, yeah, there's a lot to stumble into in this bill, too. There is every reason to do so. The title alone is a good proof of how much is adjusted: Law amending the Tax Administration Act, the Tax Code and various other laws (Fast termination in certain appeals, cost compensation in court proceedings, maintenance cover order, arrears prevention, VAT registration of certain companies, improved recovery of arrears to the public sector, etc.). There is a great deal of reason to note the latter. I'll get back to that. But let me first take the main elements, for many of them are a number of minor adjustments, and many of them seem quite reasonable. There must be an opportunity to close a case if the taxpayer and the authorities agree on the outcome of a case, instead of formally bringing the matter to the end of the appeal system. It makes a faster procedure, it makes a great deal of sense. There is also good sense in a number of other elements of the many elements of the proposal: clarification of the powers regarding cost compensation in view and estimates, rules on cost compensation in court cases, which change some unintended restrictions, and then ensure that in cases brought by SKAT, the taxpayer can be guaranteed 100%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). There are also changes on the provision of guarantees, clarification of the rules on VAT registration, better possibilities for the recovery of library fees and even more, which I certainly cannot go into in more detail. However, as I began by saying, the proposal at the end of the very long title contains a m.v.~. There are two things I am particularly sensitive to. Restrictions are proposed on the possibility of skipping a review body. If you read the consultation answers from Dansk Industri, the Danish Property Association and the Danish auditors, you can see that this proposal is of concern. This may weaken the legal certainty of the citizen, and that is why I can already say that we will be asking from the Left in the course of the committee's work. We understand that criticism and we are concerned that the proposed changes will lead to a weakening of citizens' legal certainty. But the small title of the draft law also covers something else that is much more serious. For the tax minister, with the proposal, is proposing to limit citizens' rights of redress. This is done by making so-called third party grants as assistance taxable for the recipient. This means that if a taxpayer receives a subsidy for legal assistance in his case against the authorities, the citizen will in future have to be liable for this subsidy, and that is not the case today. And I have to say that it is very difficult to see that part of the proposal as anything other than a clear attempt to get taxpayers who already have an ongoing tax case to drop their case. Over the last few weeks, we have witnessed a change in the tax minister's view of citizens' rights of redress, but this is a purely confession case: the tax minister has a proposal to limit citizens' ability to complain, because there will be a greater financial risk to the citizen if the citizen wants to move on if these contributions are made taxable. It is difficult to imagine that it has any other purpose than to cut off citizens from pursuing their cause and trying to get their right. In these cases there are often relatively small amounts of money compared with so many other tax cases, and here the costs involved in running the case can be so high that it will cut off the citizen, especially if the Minister succeeds in implementing this part. It must also be said that there should be freedom of agreement between the taxpayer and the advisors he uses to help him in his fight against the authorities, so I find it difficult to understand why it is the tax system that needs to determine the rules and agreements that each taxpayer must enter into in connection with his tax case. I agree that for lawyers and accountants there are some restrictions on making what is called no-cure-no-pay agreements, but if it is the tax minister and the government's wish to extend this ban to other legal advice, I think the government should do so openly instead of vaguely stating that the tax system should not support it. The government should do this in full transparency rather than doing it via the back door of tax legislation. Moreover, this also means, which is, of course, a dispute with the central principles of the tax system, that the symmetry of the tax system will be eliminated. For the payment by the consultant today is not and will not be deductible from the proposal for the person providing the contribution, but it will now have to be taxable for the recipient. And then it has to be said that there is no symmetry anymore. It is a central concept that the Minister of Taxation is doing away with, and this can only be attributed to the fact that the Minister wishes to restrict the right of appeal. We cannot support the fact that the Minister of Taxation has chosen to limit the citizen's ability to bring complaints against the authorities. That is a matter of legal certainty. And we cannot support the proposal when the government has pooled a broad proposal with two such serious attacks on citizens' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134846	There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134850	I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether he can confirm that when the possibility of third-party grants was originally introduced, the idea was that matters of principle could be dealt with, for example. should be able to obtain subsidies from his union and that it has never been intended to support the model that now in modern Danish goes under the name no-cure-no-pay. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134921	I do not think I am in a position to make a correct historical statement in relation to what has been the intentions and what has been the objectives of various things. I just have to say that there is a situation today where taxpayers have the opportunity to take a case by means of advice and can receive financial support without being subject to tax. This means that there are people who dare and have the opportunity to run cases that they would not otherwise dare to drive. They now want the government to tax, and that weakens the citizens' ability to run a case. This is a step backwards in relation to the legal certainty of citizens, and that is why we on the Left are turning to that part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125134959	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135002	I am not going to stand here and be a lecturer in history or anything, but I can tell you that, as the rapporteur may well know, in the year 2000, there was a result from the Cost Recovery Committee, which specifically warned against the no-cure-no-pay model. That is not what we are discussing now, and that is what was my point, so it may be quite fine if the Left as a party and the Left rapporteur want to support the no-cure-no-pay model, but that was not the idea originally of the possibility of third-party subsidies. And that is why I would just like to know whether the rapporteur of the Left does not agree that this is not the intention of this part of the legislation. In that case, we should move the discussion on the other and take it in a different context if the Left has a particular desire to favour what we call the no-cure-no-pay business model.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135050	Well, that's the problem. It is precisely the problem that the government wants to take up a fight with a principle that has been in force for a number of years and that has allowed Danish taxpayers to take a case without being deeply concerned that, if they were not accepted, they would have a large discount that would not measure up to the amount at stake. Then I have to say that if the government thinks that this is in principle wrong, I do not understand why the government does not make it more open, instead of doing it via a tax instrument and saying that the subsidy that allows a taxpayer to run this case and dare take the risk will be taxed. And by the way, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we want to put an end to the principle that if there are some who are taxable of something, there is usually a right of deduction for them in the second part of the equation. That's what you do up with. And I have to say that, for us in the Left, it is a pure confession case that the government wants to limit citizens' ability to run a complaint. We believe that more legal certainty is needed for taxpayers in Denmark and not less.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135158	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Astrid Krag as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135207	I regret that I could not make an as impressive entrance as the rapporteur of the Left. But now for the bill: from January this year we have introduced a new tax complaint structure. The aim of the new structure was only to ensure, at the end of the day, a modern, efficient and simple complaint structure that would make it easier for the citizen who wants his case to be assessed and thus strengthen the legal certainty of the citizens. With the legislative proposal we are now considering, L 42, we are following up on the new complaint structure because, as it has often done with this kind of thing, there is a need for some minor adjustments to the rules, and the proposal follows up on the issues raised in relation to the cost compensation system. In addition to that, I agree with the Left that the bill is getting around well. These include improved recovery, prevention of arrears to the public sector, among other things. with the implementation of the Municipality Agreement for 2015, and the Bill also specifies that companies that do not have deliveries in this country can only register VAT here if they are established here, and that is only right and fair. When you look at the consultation answers, you will see that there has also been a good acceptance of the legislative proposal's adjustments and clarifications of ambiguity. What particular attention has been paid to by those entitled to the hearing is in relation to the cost compensation, which has also been mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left and in relation to repatriation. I will not go into the very legal details of the draft law, but I think it is important, as the debate with the rapporteur of the Left has just shown, to say that the cost compensation is a very favourable system for citizens who contribute to the ability of all taxpayers to test cases where they do not agree with the authorities. We therefore have a system of compensation in Denmark which is incredibly favourable to almost all other countries if we look around, and that is something we have a tradition of in various areas. As a former Minister for Health, I cannot help but mention that the same applies to our patient replacement system, where as a citizen you also have a quite different favourable legal position than you see in many other countries. And I would say that with the amendments proposed by the bill here, the legal certainty of citizens is not weakened. It is a pure confession case, says the rapporteur of the Left, but the reality is that third party grants can continue to be received, so these grants, if you want to try to run a case, get a decision in principle or other tax-free, but they just cannot be received as part of a no-cure-no-pay business model agreement, where you have made an agreement that the consultant gets the financial benefit of the case. This has never been the intention of this legislation, which is why I believe, after the discussion with the rapporteur of the Left, that it would be very good for us to get to the point of what was actually the intention of the legislation we have at this time. That has never been the intention of the legislation, and that is why I think that if you want to support and finance that we support a particular business model with the name no-cure-no-pay, fine, let us discuss it, but that is not the intention of the legislation that is now in place, and that is why we need to keep our tongues straight when we discuss it here. Overall, this is a good legislative proposal, as I heard the rapporteur before me say, and the Socialists support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135528	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135532	When a Social Democrat says that this is a very favourable arrangement, and the next sentence says that it will then be possible to adjust a little, then it is obvious to everyone that this is a violation of citizens' legal certainty. I would just like the clear acknowledgement from the Socialist rapporteur that the implementation of the proposal put forward by the Minister of Taxation would be problematic in terms of citizens' legal certainty, that is to say that it would be more difficult to run a case and that there would be some who would refrain from taking a case. I would just ask that it be said openly and frankly that this is intended to limit the number of complaints where, you might say, it contributes to the discussion we have had in relation to how the government generally views citizens' access to justice. But would the rapporteur not just confirm for the sake of good order that this means that it will be more difficult for Danish taxpayers to take a case against the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135639	No, I will not, for the reason that, following this bill, the individual taxpayer has the same opportunities to receive cost compensation as before. So, I said it at the outset, and I would like to repeat it: even after this bill you can receive third-party subsidies, including tax-free ones. What we are doing with the scheme here is ensuring that it complies with what was intended when it was originally adopted. If the Left then has a wish that we should favour a particular business model for which we will soon have to find a Danish name, that is, what is called no-cure-no-pay, then I think it is interesting, and I am happy to take that discussion. However, when the Ministry of Taxation is made aware that this scheme is now being used continuously in a way that was not intended when it was introduced, we must do so, as we do in all sorts of other contexts, when we find out that the legislation is being used in a different way than what was intended, whether it is tax holes or otherwise, that we are acting on it. That is why I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that this is not a confession or anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135745	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135747	Yes, there is the same opportunity to receive subsidies if you just do not just use a model that the government apparently does not like. And that is a confession, because it means that there are citizens who have made an agreement today with an adviser who is getting worse. Moreover, there is also the date of entry into force, which is also raised in the hearings. What about the work that has been done and that will not be settled until next year? After all, the citizen may be liable to tax on a service supplied here. So, I think it is strange that because the Social Democrat Party does not like a business model, citizens should now be taxed by that subsidy. It is then to intervene in the free contract law of citizens against an adviser.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135837	It is always a pleasure to have words put in your mouth in the Chamber, so to have the floor at the end so that you can clear it up. Well, this isn't about the government having a particular business model that you don't like. But the point is that here we have legislation that, without being intended, supports a particular business model. And that is where we must take a political stance as to whether we want to support a very specific business model. I would say, if I were to put my lot in one of the scales, that I think it is very important that we have had a cost recovery committee with the country's main experts, who in the year 2000 warned against this business model because we fear that the quality of the advice given to citizens may be compromised. I think we should listen to that. However, I think that this is a discussion which, as a whole, belongs somewhere other than in the context of the revision of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135921	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125135924	I think I understood the Minister there that the citizen has the same opportunities as today I think that was said. Then I don't really understand what is described here. It must be with this continuation of the sentence: have the same opportunities as today, if you just follow the path of complaint indicated by the government or the remedies and advisers indicated by the government, etc. For the facts are that there is a change. The fact is that the symmetry is removed by this bill if the citizen, who hopefully has a free choice in terms of advisors and counseling methods, chooses what is called no-cure-no-pay. I assume, then, that it can be confirmed that there is at least a change there, and I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on whether the Minister is generally opposed to no-cure-no-pay, in other words in every respect. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140025	Thank you. I should start by explaining that it is now 9-10 months since I could call myself Minister. And even if you can long back and it's very sweet of Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, I would ask you to be addressed as rapporteur on this matter. I would just like to say that, in relation to cost compensation, the citizen, the individual taxpayer, has exactly the same opportunities after this draft law as before. If the taxpayer wins his case, the state will cover all the taxpayer's costs of counseling. If you lose the case, the state will cover half of the costs as we know it today. I would say that I think we need to spend some time in committee to find out what was really intended when the legislation in this area was originally being discussed. It is of course very exciting if the Left then had as part of its intention to support the no-cure-no-pay approach. I find that very difficult to see, it would have been very far-sighted. But we must try to clarify what was actually the purpose of this legislation. It is certainly not the experience of the authorities and the lawyers sitting in the Treasury that it has been part of the intention behind the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140128	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140131	In other words, today the remuneration is tax-free for the recipient, and in future it will be taxable for the recipient. It is not the same legal position if the recipient otherwise uses no-cure-no-pay. I just have to say to the rapporteur that the possibility of paying for advice in these small cases can therefore be so bad today, when there can be neither free process nor legal aid coverage nor anything like that for those cases that many people have to hope they can conclude a no-cure-no-pay agreement. But you can't do that if you want to get rid of the skin on your nose in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140209	I do not know if I can add so much to what we have discussed. I think it is a good thing that we have a committee procedure in front of us where we can find out what the history is behind this bill. Then I just want to say that third-party subsidies can continue to be received after this bill, including tax-free. The cost compensation scheme is a good scheme in Denmark, and I am pleased about that, I would like to emphasise that. Because one might wonder, when one heard the first rapporteur from the Left, whether I was happy with it or I am just going to wait for me to abolish this favourable system. I am very pleased that we have such a favourable arrangement because it helps to ensure the legal certainty of citizens. And what it's all about here isn't going in and changing it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140251	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140253	Thank you. I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that it is a committee that sat 14 years ago, which has said that it was not intended and that this is what determines how the Danish Parliament should take a position on this in 2014. I think it is a pity that we are now going to limit the citizens' ability to complain with an argument from some who made something 14 years ago. It is therefore the Parliament which is sitting today that decides what the conditions of appeal are. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is quite reasonable to use this no-cure-no-pay principle. I would say that you can choose to look at this problem in a different way in general. SKAT gets a lot of complaints, and there are a lot of winners. The government chooses, as it were: fine, then we have to reduce the opportunity to complain and thereby reduce the number of complainants. But you could also turn it around and say: Okay, SKAT makes many mistakes, and there are a lot of people who win. It might be better if the SKAT started doing their casework in a different way, so there were fewer complaints and they made fewer mistakes. Wouldn't it be a more logical way of looking at it to make SKAT make fewer mistakes instead of reducing the possibility of complaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140352	Well, first I want to say something that I don't hope to shake anyone in their foundation. Of course, it is a matter of getting to where decisions are taken as precise and precise as possible by SKAT and, as such, by all public authorities, which are responsible for making decisions where citizens are somehow subject to an authority. I think that is absolutely obvious. I can't believe we're discussing this. Then I'll just have to say, I think this discussion is getting all fucked up. Normally, when you see that legislation that has been adopted with a purpose is being used for something other than what was intended, you adjust. And that is what the Treasury has been made aware of here. It happens in all other resorts, it happens continuously that it is found that what was intended by the law has also opened up to something else or closed down to something else that was not intended. Why it has to be made a major political matter from the first Left and now the Danish People's Party, I might understand when I follow the public debate, but I do not think it is such a very serious approach to our legal treatment here in the Folketing. But I can hear from the whole thing that we will have the opportunity to uncover the history and the original purpose of the scheme here too. I would just like to say quite clearly that I am not saying that the Cost Covering Committee has expressed its opinion on the purpose of the bill, but they have expressed their general opinion on warning against these no-cure-no-pay business models and the quality of advice given as a citizen in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140520	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140521	I would like to ask Mrs Astrid Krag whether she cannot confirm that this bill will lead to fewer people going to complain because it could cost the citizens quite a lot. You could just see at the bottom of page 8 of the Extra Blade yesterday, down in the right corner. There was a citizen who said very clearly that this was the case when she brought a case, at least she had not complained. I think it is really a pity for legal certainty if people choose not to complain and do not dare to try their cases. I think it is particularly a pity that we now have a kind of crisis of confidence in the SKAT, where there have been so many bad cases. Well, that's where we should sort of go the other way. Surely we should ensure good legal certainty so that people could, after all, gain some confidence in SKAT. Now the government then chooses to do exactly the opposite and reduce the possibilities, and I hope that the rapporteur can see this as something wrong, at least in the light of the fact that the SKAT is actually in a fairly tough crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140612-2	It is hypothetical, of course, that I cannot say yes or no to what will happen to complaints in the future. What I understand is that there is a desire for the citizens to have the best possible procedure and that there is a concern about what no-cure-no-pay means in relation to it, especially in relation to the element that is about cases being dragged on, which is of no benefit or benefit to citizens. It may be that we disagree on how seriously we should take the warnings from the Cost Covering Committee in relation to the quality of the advice we receive. I feel like we are. I can also hear from some of the blue parties that there is a desire to take particular advantage of and favour a particular business model. I think that is honest talk, but then you have to point out how you want to introduce it and how you want to finance it. Because it has never been the intention of this legislation that a particular business model should be taken into account at the expense of others. An honest and honest, open political discussion is quite fine, but I do not think this bill should be taken hostage in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140712	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125140722	Thank you. Here we have a legislative proposal which deals with a large number of things: rapid closure in certain complaints, cost compensation in legal proceedings, order of cover for maintenance, loss prevention, VAT registration of certain companies, improved recovery of arrears to the public sector and other things. Overall, there are a great many different approaches, and frankly, I think it is a bit of a bad thing to pool so many initiatives in one proposal. We have four proposals from the tax area today, and there will be one later today, which is actually almost even worse. I think it is causing some problems in relation to the fact that there may be lawlessness when there are so many different actions pooled in one proposal. It also poses the risk that there may be a desire for the proposals to be shared, in other words because there are some things you can support and some things you cannot support. And I can already say that now will be the consequence of this first reading: that we in the Danish People's Party will want to have the proposal divided because there are some things we cannot support and some things we can support. What I'm going to spend most of my time on is the cost compensation in court proceedings. I think that's what we've already discussed with no-cure-no-pay terms. I think that this amendment to the draft law is intended solely to scare people into not complaining. You want to tax the citizens who dare to try it out, and we think it is a really bad solution that we are now going to reduce those conditions. In fact, we think that no-cure-no-pay is a fair solution and, contrary to what the Treasury uses as an argument, we do believe that it makes the counsellors make an extra effort to conduct a proper case, because they are only paid if they win, and they do not receive any payment from the customer if they lose. So we don't think that unlike the Treasury, this is a bad advice. Why would you almost do that when you only get paid if you win? So the fact that lawyers offer to run the case and only get money when they lose, and possibly get part of the prize, we do not think that one should be able to object to it here on the part of the Folketing. You can also turn it around and say: when citizens win, that means that the state has made a mistake. And by this bill, there'll probably be a lot of people who won't run the case, and we think that's bad for legal certainty. I do not think it should be a fear of high legal costs and a potential tax spank that makes people stop running the case. And it is possible that there are many complaints, but one solution is not to impair the right of appeal. As I said in my question, one can also choose to have a general view of the problem. A lot of people are complaining, and a lot of people are winning things. And then you can choose two paths. When many people complain, the incentive to complain can be reduced, and that is the way the government has chosen. Or you can choose to say that SKAT makes too many mistakes, and therefore we have to reduce the number of errors. I think that we should do more to go the last way, because if SKAT didn't make so many mistakes, not so many people complained, and there wouldn't be any advisors who would offer no-cure-no-pay because after all they offer only this solution when they are quite sure that they can win the cases. So I think it is a very fundamental question whether it should be easy or difficult for people to complain. And that is where we in the Danish People's Party only think it is reasonable for citizens to have good opportunities to complain. And especially now, at a time when there has been a great deal of storm around SKAT, I think it is a completely wrong direction to go, that at the same time you will reduce the opportunity to raise cases with SKAT. So we think this is a really bad proposal and we would like to vote against it. The draft law also contains a number of other points with which I do not wish to go into detail. We can actually see the positive side of them, but that means that we will ask for the legislative proposal to be split up in committee so that we can vote in favour of the good measures, after all, and can vote against the part concerning the cost compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141127	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nadeem Farooq as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141136	Thank you. This draft law, L 42, contains a number of adjustments and new rules on an amended tax review structure, which will come into force this year. In addition, the draft law contains rules on cost compensation, complaint process and on improved recovery and prevention of public arrears. One example is that the draft law makes it possible to establish more flexible procedures in appeals cases when the complainant and SKAT agree on the outcome of the appeal so that it can be concluded more quickly. Several other elements have been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, which I do not wish to touch on here. In general, it is my impression that there has been a relatively positive reception across the board among the consultation parties of the adjustments and clarifications. Overall, Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141232	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141235	I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur agrees that this measure of cost compensation, i.e. the no-cure-no-pay, will cause fewer people to complain, and thus also give less legal certainty, because people may not lift the cases they would otherwise do.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141252	I do not think it can be said that this will necessarily lead to fewer complaints. I think it is a question of having a model that we do not think it is appropriate to support fiscally. And I think that the principle is crucial here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141317	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141318	There was a good example in yesterday's newspaper where you could see a citizen who said: if I win this case, I'll get about 15,000 out of it. But she could be so unlucky that the potential costs of the case would go up to DKK 150,000. She said very frankly that if this law had been in force at the time, she would not have complained. And I guess it's probably not the only citizen who would feel that way. So the economic incentive would then make it impossible to complain because the costs could simply be too high. I think that's gonna happen to a lot of people if they don't have this opportunity for no-cure-no-pay. So I am really surprised that the radical rapporteur, who is usually a reasonable man, cannot see that this will almost logically lead to fewer complaints.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141402	Now I do not know the specific case and it is difficult to comment on it. I do not postulate that there will be no change, but I do not believe that there is evidence at present that there will be significantly fewer complaints. What I am referring to is that the Treasury is of the opinion that these fee agreements on no-cure-no-pay may lead to poorer counselling. That's what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141436	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141439	I also think that the radical rapporteur must be clear and then give an honest answer to the question of whether this will improve citizens' legal certainty or weaken citizens' legal certainty. Does this government proposal mean that citizens are more easily able to complain, or is it more difficult to complain? The radical rapporteur used to be exponent in saying things as they are, and so it would be liberating if the radical rapporteur could confirm what is obvious to everyone, so this proposal would prevent citizens from taking a tax case against the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141518	There are several considerations here. Of course, the rapporteur can point to legal certainty for the individual as an isolated thing, but there are also other elements. After all, it is also society's interest to be advised as intended by the scheme. There we have then estimated that overall we do not think there is any evidence to support these fee agreements fiscally. I think that is the principle to which we should refer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141549	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141551	I think that we have come some way from being concerned about giving the individual as much freedom of choice and influence as possible on his own everyday life, to now that the Folketing has to say: we are not sure that this model is good for the individual; it may be that he gets poor advice. Where is: We believe in the individual? Where is it at the Radicals? Because it must be in my optics that if the individual citizen chooses to say that I would like to have a consultative agreement on these and those conditions, then we should not interfere in it. But that is the consequence of this proposal, namely that it will be the Folketing that decides which agreements the individual citizen can enter into with the advisory side of the case against the authorities, and I would assume that the Radicals believe that this is a restriction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141642	We continue to believe in the individual, but we also believe in society's • care for the individual. If we are to take the purely liberal version, we should not have tax concessions or tax subsidies or tax deductions in this respect at all. We have chosen a balanced model here, which I can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141711	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141714	Can the radical rapporteur not follow me in that what we are doing here is regulating people's behaviour, regulating people's free choice of advisors, is regulating people's free opportunities to decide how an advisor should be paid, whether he should be paid according to time, according to responsibilities, according to money, etc. etc.? Can the rapporteur not agree with me that it is a little strange that we are starting to regulate here in Parliament on a tax matter on people's opportunities to seek advice and on the conditions under which they seek advice?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141757	Yes, I can confirm to the questioner that this proposal is also about regulating behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141809	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141811	Does the rapporteur think that it is quite normal for us to choose to regulate people's behaviour in the field of civil law, that is, how they will find their counsellor, how they will honor the counsellor? Is it quite normal that we regulate it here via tax legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141828	I think the questioner himself answers that question. We are not going to ban these no-cure-no-pay agreements. After all, we do not have to regulate them, but fiscally it is entirely legitimate for us to assess what we are going to support and what we are not going to support. We have then assessed it and drew it in a direction which I think is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141851	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141905	The citizen is in many cases faced with long processes when a complaint has been made. This can be a nuisance for both the citizen and the tax administration. The SF is therefore in favour of making the complaint rules more flexible, so that they benefit the citizen much more. The draft law thus contains several measures to improve the position of the citizen vis-à-vis the tax administration. These measures are important to ensure citizens' confidence in the tax administration, which is fundamental to the Danish tax system. In addition, as has already been said, I also note that the draft law contains a number of clarifications on several different laws. All in all, the SF can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125141945	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Oh, no, one more!
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142004	The draft law is concerned, among other things. to adjust a large number of provisions that were in the new access to complaints about SKAT, which was adopted more than a year ago and which Enhedslisten voted in favour, and we are also prepared to vote in favour of the adjustments that have been presented here. Some of the adjustments concern the recovery of public debt, and we will look at that. This is one of the places where we are a little aware of whether what is being implemented is reasonable. We haven't finished studying that yet. We believe that we must be very careful about being too hard-handed towards people who do not have as much money as it is typically about when it comes to guilty, for example. The kindergarten. We also think that we should be very careful to use the instrument of debt forgiveness before just going to screw things up, if I may say so, with people. In fact, we believe that there is a need for a debate here in the Folketing about whether debt cancellation is not being used too little in Denmark compared to other countries. It really is something that causes people to get into serious trouble, but it is a bit of a side theme for what we are debating today, but I think it is absolutely part of it and that we should look at if there is not something we should do a little better. I have been informed that when you complain about property assessments, tax assessments and other things and you win the case, you get cost recovery. It's okay. But if it is the case that a citizen is evicted from his or her house because of debts or is paid due to debts and is going to complain about that decision, then I understand that there is no cost coverage for the counsellor that he or she may need in this context. In fact, I think it is a bit biased that perhaps the most resourceful citizens complaining about their property assessment can get cost coverage, while those who are suddenly hit by wage restraint cannot get cost coverage if they win that case against the authorities. In any case, I would like to see us digging in the work of the committee, because I believe that this is a group which is typically poorly handled and which, more than many others, needs to have that safety. I can see that the Minister of Taxation is perhaps already down to look into it to give an answer. That would be fine, but in any case we would like to see this matter clarified in the committee's work. Then I would say that the debate we have spent the most time on is the one on no-cure-no-pay. Perhaps the discussion has been a little technical. Maybe we should have focused more on why no-cure-no-pay is a bad idea. I don't think so many people have said anything about that. It could also be that we should examine it further, but the approach I have taken is the American approach. The legal profession is one of the largest industries in the United States at all. Where journalists listen to the police radio to find out where there is a crime they can go out to write about, lawyers have an ambulance radio where they listen to where the ambulance is going so that they can immediately suck out and see if there is a compensation case that can be raised and on which they may be able to make money. We all know that somewhere in the United States there is this huge emphasis on the participation of lawyers in all kinds of cases. I think that many would say that this is a nuisance for American society. I'm not an expert on it. I may be completely wrong, but at least I think that the discussion we need in committee is why the no-cure-no-pay principle is not allowed for Danish lawyers today. There must be a reason why it is not allowed, and I think we should dig in that. And is that reason still topical? I think we should dig in that. If we then come to the conclusion that this is a really bad idea, we must, of course, be careful that this ban is not bypassed by very creative lawyers, because there are also creative people in that industry. I have, in fact, understood the bill in such a way that it is a gap in relation to the current ban on no-cure-no-pay, which is being closed. Normally, we agree to close gaps in the legislation. Because if it's forbidden, it's obviously a hole, and I guess it's got to be closed. I hope that Blue Block will agree with that, too. Either we change the ban or we close the gap that some are currently exploiting. So that is really what we think should be focused on in the committee work together. That is what we have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142513	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142516	I am not going to defend one principle or another, but in relation to the comparison with the United States, for Mr. Frank Aaen is, of course, right in relation to those horror stories we've read, I can't help but say that there is also the difference, that among other things. The qua no-cure-no-pay principle is that many poor people in the United States are granted their rights. What is happening in Denmark? A married couple who earns more than $30,000. in free process. The difference is the qua no-cure-no-pay principle in the United States that people might get their right there. That may not be the point of this discussion, but we will be careful not to generalise. And I actually agree with Mr. Frank Aaen in that it is then very much abused in the United States, but it might well be that one should relax a little. But that is probably a little off the agenda today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142605	Well, I kind of agree with that. I actually suggested in my rapporteur's speech that the lack of cost recovery, which I believe I am now being told in a few moments, is appropriate for certain types of debt recovery by the public sector, we should then look at that; we should then expand that. So I am not against us looking at whether we can do some things better than we are doing them today. But I would also just like to give a warning in this regard, because there is also an industry, the legal profession, which really supports it to such an extent, every time there is an opportunity to raise more cases and get more cost coverage. And, of course, it is they who do not work for their own financial interests, but I am always reading their hearing answer with the reservation that there is money at stake here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142656	Then I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142706	I agree with what several rapporteurs have said before me, namely that we are dealing with a legislative proposal, which is, to a large extent, quite sensible and pragmatic changes in the tax system and tax collection. But then there is also a problem, and here I am thinking in particular of the fact that we are now going to tax a certain agreement and form of remuneration between people complaining in the tax system and their advisers. I mean, the agreement is, for example, that you can get 15%. of the amount awarded to the complainant in the appeal system and, on the other hand, you should not have any money if the complainant is not awarded an amount. It can be seen that the fact that nothing has to be paid is some kind of discount. There's a 15 percent payment, and then there's a discount, in that you don't have to pay anything if you lose the case. And then that discount has to be taxed. But other discounts should not be taxed. I mean, you can imagine a lawyer who's gonna get $20,000. for a particular case, and he then says that he would like to do it for 15,000 kroner, and then you should not be taxed on the 5,000 kroner that is the difference. Some people pay $20,000, so here's someone who gets $5,000. at a discount, and yet that discount should not be taxed. The parallel to what is proposed will be that a service has a certain price for most, but that some will then succeed in obtaining a discount by means of good negotiating techniques or the like; then some kind of subsidy from third parties will have to be taxed. That is the logical consequence of the proposal that comes from the tax minister. And we do not support that. We do not support the fact that SKAT must make a difference between the agreements that must be concluded and that some are regarded as a subsidy, while others are a rebate and that the subsidy is taxed while the rebate is not taxed. We want a free bargaining right, a free contract law between the taxpayer and the taxpayers' advisers, and that is why we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142935	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next one in the line of speech is Mr. Knox. Brian Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125142945	It is a fundamental principle of a community governed by the rule of law that there must be maximum and maximum access to complaints, maximum and maximum access to cases with and against the state system. We can see that there are specific issues for many ordinary citizens and also for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. When you feel misjudged and have to rise up against the DA, you have to go up against public authorities, where you can risk spending relatively much money on legal costs, but at the same time see that there will be no profit out of it. That is why it must of course be fair and possible for us to be able to make reasonable agreements with counsellors without being taxed. It should be a fundamental principle that in this Chamber we should ensure that ordinary people and small and medium-sized enterprises are able to have their legal certainty and not, as this proposal suggests, restrict the possibility of complaining, to restrict the possibility of being able to take a case if we have been unfairly dealt with. There are many elements in the proposal, and several rapporteurs have mentioned this, and the vast majority of us can support, also reasonable, sensible measures, which we are surprised to see ourselves have not done anything about in the past, including under bourgeois governments, but much of what has been collected here in this proposal is now quite reasonable. But we cannot help supporting the fact that there will be less opportunity to complain, less opportunity to take action against the state. We should at least always ensure that we have the opportunity to do so without risking major financial losses, and therefore, of course, there must still be an opportunity to conclude an agreement with an adviser without having to pay tax on such an agreement. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125143141	There do not seem to be any brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister for rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125143202	Thank you for the debate and also thank you for the positive reception on most of the points proposed. It is clear that at least part of the proposal has brought a lot of debate, and I will come back to that in a moment. The proposal provides for a number of adjustments to the new rules on the reform of the tax system, which entered into force on 1 January this year. In addition, the draft law includes, among other things: rules on cost compensation, complaint process and on improved recovery and prevention of public arrears, including the implementation of the Municipality Agreement for 2015. The aim of the proposal is to establish more appropriate procedures in the complaint process and in the area of arrears, including modernising the rules. This applies, among other things, to: the possibility of bringing a complaint to an end more quickly, to which we have also heard several voices in favour. Furthermore, the aim of the proposal is to ensure that the rules are not used in an inappropriate way or are tried to be bypassed, and here we have at least had a little debate. Finally, the proposal corrects unintended errors and implements clarifications in the legislation where there have been uncertainties about the understanding of rules; this applies, inter alia, to: the provision on the possibility of VAT registration for undertakings which do not have deliveries to the country, and the provisions on cost compensation and provisions in the area of arrears and prevention. I am, of course, prepared to answer any questions that may be raised in order to clarify them. During the debate a number of issues have been raised, and I would like to start with some of those who have not filled so much in the debate. The rapporteur of the Left referred to the question of the passing of the review body and, in relation to this, I think it is worth emphasising that the proposal is not about abolishing this jumping rule, but about targeting the rule to those situations where there is a real need for such a drop-off. There is no need for a pass-through once a draft decision has been reached, because the matter will normally be settled within a very short period of time. In the event of a drop in the situation, the work carried out at the Board of Appeal will have been wasted, thus ensuring a more appropriate use of resources by both the Tax Appeal Board and the courts. It's just to answer that part of it. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Frank Aaen mentioned the issue of recovery, and we shall probably do more, but I think it is appropriate to mention at least that it does not cost anything to complain in the area of recovery. However, this is quite essential in relation to the specific costs of a complaint to citizens. A number of questions have, of course, been raised in relation to what is known as the no-cure-no-pay question. In relation to this, I think it is worth emphasising first of all that this proposal does not imply that citizens should be prevented from obtaining their rights. As Minister for Taxation, I am responsible for the fact that tax legislation supports an appropriate case organisation and complaint process, just as I am responsible for the fact that the case organisation is not essentially governed by the rules on cost compensation. For it is the case that the cost compensation scheme is a good thing for the citizens, for the taxpayers are particularly favourable arrangements which the Ministry is not aware of exist in other countries. I think we can be glad that this system exists. This scheme, supplemented by the system of tax-free third-party subsidies, ensures in an economically balanced way that all taxpayers have the opportunity to verify the cases in which they disagree with the authorities. I do not believe that the overall adjustment is a weakening of the legal certainty of citizens. The Tax Appeals Board has informed the Ministry that the Board of Directors sees a tendency for cases to be brought before the courts, where the decisive evidence only appears in the trial. In addition, the Board sees a tendency for the appeal body to be missed when it has received such an attitude to the appeal's decision, which is unfavorable. So you also see a tendency to take advantage of these no-cure-no-pay trends. What is worth emphasising there is that there is a risk that fee agreements concluded on no-cure-no-pay terms may lead to • and that is also what Mr. Frank Aaen was concerned with less counseling the tax or taxable person, and it is worse than if the remuneration of counsellors is based on more general methods of settlement. I think it is worth emphasising that the cost recovery committee with the then associate professor at Aalborg University, Margrethe Nørgaard, as chairman with the participation of a number of external tax experts, warned against this in its report 1382 in the year 2000: it warns against an undesirable development towards a system of no-cure-no-pay. In the view of the Committee, agreements with such conditions could give rise to many cases in which the expert could serve on the swings, what had been lost on the caroussels, as was written at the time. The proposal itself is not aimed at preventing the spread of no-cure-no-pay agreements; this can probably only be done by banning such agreements, but we simply say in the proposal that we do not believe that tax legislation should support the conclusion of such agreements. The agreements included in the draft law are legally referred to as Pactum de quota litis, i.e. agreements in which the financial gain for the consultant is a part of the outcome of the case, as is also mentioned in the supplementary consultation annex. So when in the bill and in this debate we use the term no-cure-no-pay, which we have no Danish expression for, this is because it is the way in which the pactum de quota litis is referred to in general speech. During the course of the debate, a question was also put to the Socialist rapporteur on the question of retroactivity, and I shall just find the answer to that here for two seconds. It was the Socialist rapporteur who was asked the question. Quite frankly, I do not remember which rapporteur asked the question, but I nevertheless think it should be answered. Indeed, the proposal does not have retroactive effect, since the proposal does not alter the agreement between the consultant and the tax or taxable person. It is a common starting point in the field of taxation that legislation does not exempt existing private contracts from being dealt with under new legislation. If e.g. a tax-free employee benefit is taxable, such a change would not have to exempt agreements already concluded between employers and employees. The same is true in this situation. Then I should also like to draw your attention to something else. I noticed that sir... Dennis Flydtkjær, in his rapporteur's speech, assumed that it is the case that a legal firm can offer to take a case after no-cure-no-pay or pactum de quota litis, and that is where I should rather, for the sake of good order, because it may be that someone is sitting out there and thinking that this is how it is emphasized that this is not the case, which cannot be done. So what is the case in this specific situation, which is mentioned here, is that by means of a third party, i.e. by making a construction around it, you have the opportunity to do what is popularly called no-cure-no-pay. With those words, of course, I shall say that I look forward to the committee reading, and we shall certainly do our best to answer any questions that may be rather technical in nature, as I can hear from today's debate there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144041	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144046	Just as the government rapporteurs made their interpretation, the Minister is putting himself in the slipstream of them. It should almost be understood that this is a matter of consumer protection on the part of the government. Now the government simply wants to protect citizens from bad advice, and that is why citizens must then be taxed if they choose to use a particular advisory model. I believe that this is a completely new form of consumer protection policy that is being implemented through the tax system. Look, when you look at the course of one of the issues from which this is clearly derived, namely the deduction of land improvements, the government has now abolished the deduction forward-looking, you can no longer complain about what are just some cases that lie in a matter, and the Minister's predecessor, I think, has been given some money to get paid off, so that with that history you are very aware when there are adjustments and changes, and that is what is the case here, namely that the conditions on which citizens have chosen to use counselling will now be changed so that citizens are taxed by it. That's why it's important for me to know: When did the Treasury Department find out that this was developing? When did the Treasury and the Treasury Department think this was gonna be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144206-2	It is quite recently that the Ministry of Taxation has been made aware that there is a problem of this nature. However, it is clear that when, back in the year 2000, the report which was made at the time on this very scheme specifically emphasized that one was concerned that one could de facto introduce no-cure-no-pay, Pactum-de-quota-litis, in this practice, one has of course also been aware of it. However, it is here quite recently that the Tax Appeals Board has been informed that this issue was present.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144256	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144259	Okay, I'm really looking forward to it. We're gonna be able to take a closer look. Because then I think the Treasury is the last in this country to discover that this has happened. So I am somewhat curious how the Minister will be able to prove that this has only happened very recently, but we can then look forward to what comes out of it. There is no point in standing here and explaining the story, which it is a little difficult to document afterwards. But we'll have to find out. After all, the Minister for Taxation is also the minister for a tax system which carries some very fundamental principles, and one of them is that there is symmetry in taxation. In other words, if there is something that is taxable for some, there is a right of deduction for others. And then I just want to know why the tax minister thinks it's okay to break that principle when it comes to these third-party subsidies. Because there is no right of deduction for the person granting them, but the person receiving them must pay tax on it. It's a dispute with a basic principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144356	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144357	I have to say, for the record, that it is of course the case that if the committee wishes to have the request sent by the Tax Appeals Board, that can be done. But I must also stress that this must be done in a confidential form because, in the view of the Ministry of Taxation, the request contains a number of confidential information, that is. information which will be subject to the specific professional secrecy of the tax authorities. It will therefore, if the committee so wishes, and the supplementary consultation form for a private company's response, be forwarded in a confidential form. I will have to return to the other at a later stage, according to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen for the first brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144447	Thank you. The minister noted in relation to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's question that no-cure-no-pay was forbidden for lawyers. That is also quite correct, but it is a truth with modifications. The Code of Procedure and the relevant rules state that the case must be settled according to its meaning and value for the client, the outcome of the case, the nature, extent of the work done on the case, etc., but also the outcome of the case. This means that lawyers in Denmark, including the DA, will calculate something more if the case is won, something less if it is lost. This is apparent from the rules laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure. Against this background, I would like to hear the Minister's opinion: will it have consequences to use lawyers in these cases? Does one suddenly come under a rule that falls within the concept of the law, that is, a share of the economic gain? Because you are using a lawyer who gets more if the case is won; that is clear from the Code of Procedure and the relevant rules. Will it have consequences for people to have a different fiscal position if they apply lawyers to these cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144554	Now I hope that Mr. I know Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Preben Bang Henriksen's educational background is also familiar with the legal rules. 16.2 which is just about pactum de quota litis and how it should not be used. I would like to stress once again, for the sake of good order, that when we talk about no-cure-no-pay, we are talking about what is understood as Pactum de quota litis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144630	Thanks for the lesson. Now I think we should make an agreement to keep my background and education out of today's debate, and I do, of course, the same to the Minister. It was precisely the legal rules, § 16 para. 1, according to Article 126 of the Code of Procedure, which I quoted just now. So I am well aware of the rules, and that is why it appears that the outcome of the case has an impact on the settlement that comes from the lawyer, and on that basis I asked the Minister: does this mean that the use of a lawyer falls within the concept of a share of the financial gain? Do we have any other tax consequences from the use of a lawyer in these cases than we would otherwise have had?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144720	I refer very clearly to the Pactum de quota litis, which is covered by § 16 (1). 2, where it is clearly stated that a lawyer may not enter into any fee agreements. I think that is quite clear from the legal rules, without which I do not, and I do, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen quite rightly, has such a long and fine education, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. That is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144750	No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144804	The first speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Mads Rørvig from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125144817	Thank you. The draft law that we are to deal with now is about reducing the fee requirement in the tax scheme for foreign researchers and key employees, which currently stands at DKK 70,600. monthly, excluding pension contributions. When the proposal is implemented, this requirement will be reduced by DKK 10,000, so that the required amount will in future be DKK 60 600. per month, including net pension contributions. This means that more people will be able to avail themselves of the research scheme than before, and it will benefit both Denmark and the Danish companies. This reduction should make Denmark more attractive to highly qualified foreign labour, as tax conditions are now being relaxed and can make economic gains for those concerned. It is important for the Left that the Danish business community gets the most favourable conditions for creating growth and expanding their activities. In order for them to do so, it is necessary that they can hire the best for the job, regardless of nationality, and that their desired candidate actually wants to move to Denmark and work. However, the Danish companies have not been so strong that the Danish tax conditions can act as a deterrent to foreign labour. In this way, we may have missed some highly specialised people who could make a positive contribution to companies. In the wake of this, one cannot fail to wonder why some of the parties in the Danish Parliament are strongly opposed to top tax concessions, while at the same time paying tribute to the proposal made by the Minister here. In the light of these points, I should like to say that the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145016	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145020	The rapporteur wonders why there are parties here in the Danish Parliament who speak against top tax relief while voting in favour of this bill. I have to hear: does the Left support the fact that the top tax is to be lifted?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145035	Well in the Left we have the view that we generally find it difficult to point to taxes and taxes in Denmark which are too high. At the same time, during the period of the VK government, we reduced the upper marginal tax. We have then said in the Left that this is not exactly the task we first set ourselves for. We have said that we will focus on reducing the tax on the lowest incomes. But it is absolutely not in contrast to the fact that we think that the top tax is too high and damages the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145121	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145123	Well, actually, I'm a little unsure about what the Left thinks, because we have the Chairman of the Left, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's words that it is no problem at all in Denmark that the top tax is too high. He has said that on several occasions. But now I understand from the rapporteur in this matter that it is a problem that top tax is too high and I have to hear: can we expect the Left to work for a lower top tax if there is a bourgeois majority in the next parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145151	The rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145153	In this parliamentary term, the Left has, of course, lowered the top tax with the current government, and we did the same in the VK government. We have then said that we also want to reduce taxes and duties if we are to have power after a forthcoming election. However, it will be in that order that we want to look at the lowest incomes first. I don't know if sir. Ole Birk Olesen has had the opportunity to watch TV programmes on DR in the last few days, but one can say that there is absolutely something to come by in relation to giving the lowest income groups in Denmark an incentive to work and make it more attractive to them. And that is what we see first. But that does not, of course, rule out looking at the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments, and then it is the rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145245	Thank you. Before I throw myself at my rapporteur's speech, I would just like to give you a consumer information if there were to be someone sitting out there who got the coffee in his throat and who could not understand what the rapporteur of the Left was talking about and say that what we have done together is that we have raised the limit on when to pay top tax and lifted ordinary Danish employees out of top tax, but it is a different discussion from this one. What we are dealing with here is a change in the withholding tax law, which should make it more possible for Danish companies to participate in the international competition to attract the best heads to the development of our companies. It has to be said that the way the world looks today is absolutely central to Danish companies, that they can employ skilled and skilled workers who can develop the company and make that Danish companies can make themselves felt on the world market. Skillful employees are the most important raw material we have, it is alpha and omega if Danish companies are to be able to stand the distance in international competition. Sometimes the right person is found with the right skills at home, sometimes companies have to recruit the smart heads and the ferme hands from countries elsewhere in the world. The proposal here translates some of the government's agreement with all the Danish Parliament's parties except Enhedslisten for a reform of international recruitment. The draft law softens the fee requirement so that more people will have access to taxation under the so-called research scheme. The research scheme provides a lighter income tax relationship and can therefore support Danish companies when recruiting highly qualified foreign key employees and researchers. Specifically, the fee requirement, which was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, is reduced from DKK 70 600. 60,600 kroner. monthly. The simple reason is that it must be possible to attract more people to key functions in Denmark. See, this proposal will contribute to the creation of more jobs in Denmark, because specialists from abroad will be able to contribute to the necessary development and growth of the companies that create jobs for the most people, who are the ones who live and work in this country. It is absolutely crucial for us in the Social Democratic Party that we do not recruit internationally for areas where there is high unemployment in Denmark and that companies also comply with the rules of the Danish labour market on fair competition and decent pay and working conditions. I think it is well known to all of us that Danish companies, and indeed those who are in the world market, are in fierce competition with companies all over the world to attract the best qualified labour force. It is highly specialised labour that enables both Danish and foreign companies to expand and develop their activities here in Denmark. With the proposal here, we place Denmark better in the competition for the smart minds and the ferme hands, and that is why the Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment, first from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145545	The interesting thing about this broad brotherhood in the Folketing that the tax for foreign key employees who come to Denmark is far too high is, of course, whether you are willing to draw the consequences, that the tax is perhaps also too high for Danes? So, if a lower tax is needed to attract foreign, highly paid people to Denmark to make a contribution to Danish society, is it the rapporteur's view that a lower tax could also be needed for resident Danes, so that they do not go abroad where they can work for a lower tax than in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145625	I would like to say to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance that I am very pleased with the tax reform that the government has made, where we lifted ordinary Danish employees out of top tax, so raised the limit on when to pay top tax, because there were now so many professional groups in Denmark who had ended up paying top tax where it had never been intended. I am in favour of wanting more than what the draft law is doing here, and I have also noted that the Danish Businesses have a number of proposals which will mean a more general relaxation of the top tax, but I would also like to say very clearly to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that I do not think this is the right way to go. I believe that this would be wrong in terms of distribution and should additional tax cuts be provided, I think they should be given at the bottom. I am incredibly pleased with the elements that were also part of the tax reform, namely an increase in the employment allowance for single parents, and that we increased the pension allowance for those old-age pensioners who have at least two examples. And that is the way we are going to go if further tax cuts are to be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145721	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145724	Perhaps I should just make it clear that the researcher tax scheme makes it possible to get here from abroad if you earn money now with the new rules that are adopted with this bill from 59,000 DKK. the month up, and then you are taxed on your own with labour market contributions and, in addition, 26%. of the rest. After all, it is a lucrative arrangement that many Danes look forward to with envy, and the many Danes have not been lifted out of top tax payments if they earn, for example. 60,000 or 59,000 kroner. a month. Does the fact that you have difficulty drawing foreigners to Denmark to work for Danish tax not make the rapporteur think that someone might go from Denmark abroad because they do not want to work for Danish tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145811	After all, this is a legislative proposal which has been very concerned to ensure that there are also safeguards so that it is not abused to recruit in areas where we actually have key employees at home. After all, it is a system which is intended to be able to recruit specific key staff, which is lacking for specific development tasks, and which is why various safeguards have been introduced. I agree that there are some who want to do more generally with them, just as I fully agree that the Liberal Alliance has a fiscal policy programme which will mean a very significant redistribution in Denmark for the benefit of the richest. However, no, I do not believe that there is the logic in which the Liberal Alliance rapporteur asks me to agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145855	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145858	After all, I gave my rapporteur's speech before, and I think this bill is very good, but does Mrs Astrid Krag not see that there is a contradiction? This is where the tax is significantly relaxed, you might say, for people who are at the good end of the income scale, while at the same time taking action against this policy when it comes to their own citizens in Denmark. Let us take a concrete example: if a foreign important employee comes to Denmark, it could be a researcher, earning 1.5 million. kr. A year, that is probably not unrealistic, so you save hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in tax rebates. Does Mrs Astrid Krag think this is a good idea? Because that is not really what can be sensed when tax policy is generally spoken with the Socialists, that is, that one is willing to look at lowering taxes on higher incomes because one can see that they actually add value to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125145954	Well, one may well be a little in doubt about what it is that the Left really wants to tax policy, because while one has a President who travels around and talks about giving tax relief at the bottom, one is constantly committing itself to more and more concrete tax cuts which point the opposite way, so that some of those in our society who have the most benefit from some of the industries that I do not think stand first. In other words, this is a very specific scheme, a tax scheme for foreign researchers and key staff. It is as in the title that it is a limited scheme and there are some safeguards that have been introduced here in order to ensure that there is no general permanent recruitment on particularly lucrative conditions. That is why I would just like to say that proposals have been made, for example. Danish Occupation to remove some of the rules of protection, i.e. the rule that you must have been out of Danish tax liability for 10 years in order to be able to take advantage of this, and I will not be a part of it. Because I think it is important that there are the safeguards and that there are the boundaries that make it a concrete arrangement that is being used for what is intended, namely to enable Danish companies to participate in the competition to attract the necessary highly specialised workforce, so that some Danish companies, who fortunately are the world leader in their industry, can continue to be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150107	Sir. Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150109	Well, I understand that Mrs Astrid Krag has to go a long way to find the arguments. I am trying to ask the question again: can Mrs Astrid Krag not see the contradiction, which lies in the fact that a specific key employee from abroad must be taken into account in Denmark, while the specific key employee, one might say, from Denmark, who is in Denmark, may have to have a much higher salary, because the tax rate is much higher? Can't Mrs Astrid Krag see the complete illogicality of the Socialist arguments? This is hugged as a good proposal, which I agree with Mrs Astrid Krag in it is, but when you talk generally about tax cuts in Denmark, are you going against them? I just think that this should give rise to a few questions about both its own tax policy and the general tax policy when this argument is put forward today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150205	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150207	Firstly, the Socialists are not thundering against tax cuts, but they must be affordable and they must go to the right people. And, as the rapporteur himself said, we have lifted thousands of Danes out of the top tax, ordinary employees who were never meant to pay top tax. I am pleased about that, and I am proud of it, and it does not fit in well with the image of a social democrat who is thundering against tax cuts. So that's the first thing. Secondly, we are dealing with a system that is limited. There are some rules of defense. We are talking about the fact that it may be up to five years' total duration, we are talking about having been out of Danish tax liability for 10 years, and those safeguards are important and central to me. But I am left with the unanswered question, which I shall see if I can answer in the second context, whether this should be added to the list of tax reliefs which the Left binds up to after an election that hits the top, and I should like to say that there are now very few crowns left for the tax cuts mentioned, the Left will give at the bottom and that is an honest talk. Then I just think that you owe it to the Danes not to travel around the country and say that you will give tax relief at the bottom if you get the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150305	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150316	The bill we are discussing now is, of course, an implementation of the agreement called the "Agreement on the reform of international recruitment," which is why it may of course also seem a bit strange to see internally, when we are all actually agreed on the agreement, that one still has to be bickered about it. Of course, there has to be room for that, but you can of course think it's a little funny. The proposal is about reducing the fee requirement for access to tax on what is called the researcher tax scheme. It is reduced from 70,600 to 60,600 kroner today. The aim is to attract more people to key functions in Denmark, strengthen the competitiveness of Danish companies and thereby also increase the growth opportunities in the Danish economy. For the Danish People's Party, it is important to mention that the reason why we can support this proposal, and the reason why we agreed to the agreement on easier access to highly qualified labour, is that at the same time we had some changes made to the greencard scheme, which was of course a targeting, so that some of those who are not highly educated get a little harder about it. After all, some stories have been seen where people have entered the research tax scheme and have ended up driving a taxi or having another job, and that is not the intention of it. We do not object to the fact that it is easy to get researchers and other people in, if that is what is needed, but it must also be targeted, so that you know more precisely who it is you can get in. There are also some other steps in the draft law which was discussed a few weeks ago on the green card scheme, which states that one of them is to do with the green card scheme. limited access by international students to daily allowances and a number of other measures. The Danish People's Party is part of this overall agreement, which is why we can of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150514	Now that we all agree to vote in favour of this, except for Enhedslisten, it can indeed be, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær says, be a little strange that we spend so much time discussing with each other, but it is of course because we are some who think we have a rigour in our attitude. We think that the top tax for Danes is too high. We welcome the fact that in the other parties that do not think so, there is the recognition that if you are to get high-paid people from abroad to work in Denmark, you have to have a lower tax than the top tax that you impose on Danes. We are thinking that it may be a lever for the later lowering of taxes for the Danes as well. So I would like to ask the Danish People's Party: It is usually the case that the Danish People's Party is opposed to treating foreigners better than Danes, but here I understand that the Danish People's Party believes that foreigners who come to Denmark should be allowed to pay much less taxes than Danes. How is this connected in the world of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150612	I do not think it is fair to make different rules either, so it is much better for foreigners than it is for Danes. In fact, our objective in agreeing to this agreement was also to tighten up the greencard system, and we managed to do so. Then when you go into the deal, there are also some other things that allow you to get some pluses and minuses. In fact, we do not think that the greencard system is good, nor do we think it is reasonable for Danish researchers, and that was part of the debate before, to pay much more in tax than foreign researchers. I have also noted that the reason why this proposal provides negative revenue, among other things. is that you now lower the amount in this rule from 70,600 kr. 60,600 kroner. Then a lot of people come in who would have come anyway, and that doesn't mean you get that tax revenue. So in addition to hitting some key functions, there are a lot of other people who are also favored by this agreement, and I don't think that's very positive. But we stand by the agreement we have made, and this is because, as I said, we got a targeting in the greencard system, which means that we can all see ourselves in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150703	The rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150705	All right, but if the Danish People's Party could decide all alone, the Danish People's Party would find it unreasonable that Danish researchers should pay more in tax than foreign researchers. Does this mean that in such a situation, if the Danish People's Party could decide, it would raise the tax for foreign researchers or lower the tax for Danish researchers? What would the Danish People's Party do?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150728	If you're going to talk about which tax to raise and what to lower, our focus isn't at all that place. Then it's actually somewhere else. Then we think it is a much greater challenge that there are too many Danes for whom it is not worth working. There have been a number of programmes on television over the last few days which have just confirmed the tendency of people not to take a job because they simply get too little out of it. Then we have to go in and see if we can find some extra money to spend on tax cuts, we think it should be at the bottom. It is very much to be allowed to be the employment allowance that gets a nick instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150801	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Nadeem Farooq of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150818	Thank you. As labour market rapporteur, I have also sat with the whole package, which is about reform of international recruitment, and it is a very good package for Denmark and for the Danish economy, because with the reform of international recruitment we make it more advantageous for foreign knowledge workers to come to Denmark; it becomes easier, it becomes easier and less trouble to recruit foreign labour. It is incredibly important that we stick to the overall principle of this bill, namely that Danish welfare also depends on us being attractive in the future when it comes to shanghahing the best heads. It can be said that much has now been said about this proposal, about the research tax scheme that we are relaxing, so that we reduce the fee requirement from approx. 70,000 kroner. ed 60,000 kroner, and then you can always have that discussion about whether you should put the tax down in general. We have also delivered this point during this period of government by a broad majority. I think it is important that we constantly put together our labour market policy, our business policy, our tax policy, so that Denmark is in the best position to fight for its wise heads. And with this proposal, we are taking a tremendous step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125150952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151009	The bill translates part of the agreement on international recruitment, which SF is part of. Overall, we are pleased with the agreement because the fight against social dumping is being strengthened, among other things. in the case of higher penalties to employers employing illegal labour from non-EU countries, and significant tightenings of the greencard scheme and the agricultural internship scheme. Since we are in the overall agreement, we can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151041	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Frank Aaen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151052	As other rapporteurs have been kind enough to mention, the Enhedslisten is the only party against this scheme; we have been at least all the years I remember. It still puzzles me that SF is so excited about this tax relief for the richest. That's per. definition of those who earn a great deal of money that benefit from this, and that is also the case per year. definition that the much more you earn, the much more you save in taxes. I think that's a strange arrangement. I know somebody's saying it's for getting scientists here. There we have always said that a wage increase must then be granted if more is needed in order to draw people to the country instead of starting to apply the tax rules in a way that we know is also being abused. They are being abused in such a way that it is a tax relief for people who would have come here anyway. The most famous example of abuse is athletes, and it is also Danish athletes who have been abroad for a few years, who then come back to Brøndby or FCK, or where they are now going, who also suddenly come under the research scheme because they are good at playing football; but getting under the research scheme is perhaps just exaggerated compared to it being a footballer. This also applies to others in the entertainment sector; it applies in general to a large number of professional groups who come under this scheme, because it sounds so nice to call it that, but it is nothing more than a tax relief for high-paid, or alternatively a subsidy for the business sector that wants to hire some high-paid people. So we are vertically opposed, we have been all along, and we are also just warning against it. We can also listen to today's debate, and I think it is very good what we have heard from the blue bloc, namely that it is used as a general attack on progressive taxation in Denmark, that is, the scheme that the more you earn, the more you have to pay in tax. After all, this scheme is used as an argument that it is against and that you want to reduce the tax on the highest-paid. This is also achieved by supporting such a system as the one we are debating today. But, as others have also said, the Enhedslisten is against.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151307	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151311	Now Mr. Frank Aaen wonders about the fact that SF is involved, which is why Mr. Frank Aaen asked me when I stood on the platform why SF is it. So I think it is fair enough that I just notice that this is the overall agreement that we support. There are some significant tightenings in the green card system, in the agricultural practical arrangements and in the area of social dumping, which we support. We are not in isolation for this agreement; I agree with Mr Beazley. Frank Aaen in his recitals. But it is the overall package that we are behind and that is why, of course, we are also helping to implement this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151350	It may not have been so much a question, but the rapporteur is allowed to answer anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151353	It may be a reasonable criticism I could have asked before. I would just like to say that this is the first tax rapporteur from the SF that I have met, who is against the scheme, because all the other tax rapporteurs from the SF with whom I have discussed this over the years have all warmly supported the research scheme itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151416	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151425	First of all, I should like to make a small comment on Mr Seligman's report. Frank Aaen, who says that progressive taxation is characterised by the fact that those who earn more pay more. In other words, a fixed tax rate also means that those who earn more pay more. I know that the mysteries of the percentage bill have not really gone up on the left, but even with the tax policy of the Liberal Alliance, a person who earns 1 million. kr. per year, considerably 40%. on, for example, a person who: Makes $200,000. a year. That's how percentages work. That is why it is nonsense to say that it takes progressive taxation to make the widest shoulders bear the greatest burdens. It just takes a fixed percentage. To this very bill, which we support and which we are also bound by, I would say that it is a prerequisite for attracting labour to Denmark that it is not taxed in Denmark. However, this recognition could lead to more than just foreign workers. It is also the case for Danish workers that they leave the country because taxation in Denmark is too harsh. That is why I have gone a little after the parties in this Chamber who support this bill; many of them will not recognise that the mechanism that applies to foreign workers coming to Denmark also applies to Danish workers moving abroad because taxation is too harsh in Denmark. The problem is the same. It is a problem if we cannot attract a skilled person who earns a high wage from abroad to Denmark, but it is also a problem that there are skilled people with high wages in Denmark that we cannot keep in Denmark because they are moving out of the country because taxation is too hard. This researcher tax scheme is also an expression of what the government thinks is a realistic tax if you want to keep talented people in Denmark and attract skilled people from outside, because the same mechanisms apply. The researcher's tax scheme is therefore based on 8% tax. labour market contributions and 26 per cent thereafter. of the rest. I guess that's about the level it should be in Denmark. It's just a tooth under what the Liberal Alliance is proposing. We say max. 40%, and this has to go up to about 34 percent, so it's more ambitious than the Liberal Alliance's policy. But in any case, it is an indication that there is a recognition by the left in Denmark that taxation and the level of taxation are important for the ability to attract and also, one would think, retain skilled people in Denmark who would otherwise want to travel abroad. So for that reason too, we support the bill. It is so gratifying that every time we deal with this kind of bill in this Chamber, we see that the left in principle supports snug liberal thinking about taxation and Denmark's conditions of competition when dealing with foreigners. At some point, the left will also find out that this also applies to Danes minus Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125151752	The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal. We have been arguing for years that we should have as lucrative a science tax scheme as generous as possible. We ourselves improved the system when we sat in government and also argued that we should have this improvement, where the remuneration requirement has been reduced by DKK 10,000. Then why are we doing this? Well, we are interested in getting as much foreign labour as possible to Denmark • qualified labour, which can help to make Danish society richer, help to create innovation, help to develop in Denmark. And this will all the other things equal mean that we have easier to attract foreign labour to Denmark. That's one part of it. The second part is more of a matter of principle. This is a fantastic argument, which has also been bought by the government here and also by the SF, namely that tax matters. S, SF and the Radicals, who have thought it after all that we are going to give them for a while, will now also realise that lowering the tax on labour means that more will work in Denmark. That is a good argument. It is a good argument when we are talking about the fact that we are going to put the tax on work in Denmark, that S and SF now recognise that it matters that you put the tax down. It is therefore also interesting to look at the proceeds of such a tax reduction, which is now being proposed. Immediately, this results in a smaller revenue of 255 million. kr., but hold on tight, because then there will be so many dynamic effects. There is so much movement in Danish society and so many things are being created that less revenue is falling from 255 million. kr. net to 35 million kr. net. And it shows that it means something when you lower the tax on work, it means something to production, to innovation, to welfare development in Denmark, that more people give it a shell and develop some things. So we strongly support this proposal, it is a step in the right direction and a good argument that we also need to reduce taxes on work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152003	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152012	Thank you, first of all, for the generally positive reception of the proposal. The proposal is, of course, the implementation of an agreement between the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. As a result, of course, I have also heard those parties say that they are behind it, and of course I have also heard the Enhedslisten, who has confirmed that they are not part of the agreement. The proposal translates part of the agreement on reform of international recruitment. It is therefore part of a major overall reform, and that reform has four objectives. It must be easier and faster for companies to recruit international labour; there must be a level playing field for international labour, and schemes that do not function as intended must be targeted; Denmark must be better at maintaining international students, and the reception and retention of international labour must be strengthened. The agreement is intended to help strengthen the competitive environment of companies and hence the foundation for growth and prosperity in Denmark. The proposal before us today makes it easier to attract people to important key functions in Denmark. The research scheme involves less income tax and thus supports Danish companies' efforts to recruit highly qualified foreign key employees and researchers. One of the conditions for applying the scheme today is that the employee has an average salary of DKK 70,600. a month. However, the condition shall not apply to persons whose qualifications as researchers are approved by a public research institution or the Free Research Council. When the remuneration requirement is reduced by the proposal before us today, more people will be eligible for the researcher tax scheme. Several highly qualified key employees will strengthen the competitive position of Danish companies in an increasingly global world, and this will increase growth opportunities in the Danish economy. It is also worth mentioning that the reduction will lead to more jobs for Denmark, because the foreign specialists will contribute to the creation of more jobs for residents. In the course of the debate, I have tried to listen to whether there was any more technical content based on the answers received. I have not listened to that, but it is also true, of course, that if, as a result of this constructive debate, there is something in the committee procedure that we have to turn around, I look forward, of course, to a constructive committee procedure in which we answer questions as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152252	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No brief remarks or others have asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152316	Here you go to the rapporteur for the Left, Mads Rørvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152339	Thank you. The legislative proposal before us today concerns a series of simplifications and technical changes in the area of taxation. These amendments are intended to reduce the burden on Danish companies and the main elements of the bill are as follows: abolition of alcohol bandoles; simplification of access to export tax for registered recipients; access to the sale of rough-cut smoking tobacco in loose sale, which means that cafés offering water pipes can more easily sell water pipe tobacco legally; amendments to the law on non-life insurance tax, including the introduction of disclosure obligations for agents or intermediaries, and clarification that roadside assistance subscriptions are covered by the tax; adjustment of the anti-pollution tax law so that the tax on exported biocidal products can be reimbursed on a calculated basis; a gradual introduction of the rule on NOx taxation for piston engines and turbines; simplification of the rules on gas meters in cook customers; amendment of the tax law on the protection of tax on electricity used for lighting purposes; and orderly clarification of a number of provisions in the energy tax laws. These are a large number of changes, most of which are of a very technical nature. Overall, it is gratifying that the government has taken up the task of reducing the burden on business. There is a great need for this. Denmark is a country where you can easily set up a company, but for some it can be very difficult to run the company. In many areas, we put ourselves at a disadvantage by having more strict rules and higher taxes than in our neighbouring countries. This is worrying and, of course, something needs to be done about it. This bill contains a series of adjustments that are moving in the right direction and that business also supports. However, there are a few changes which are more worthy of note and which we are entering into a slightly deeper discussion in the Committee on Taxation. First of all, in the context of the draft law of the motor vehicle repair industry organisation, there has been a concern that a distortion of competition will be created between the providers of self-service services and those providing it as part of a package solution. At the same time, the draft law means that, in future, when car assistance is to be regarded as insurance, it is actually a tax increase, and we are, of course, critical of that in the Left. As we know, Denmark already has far too high taxes and taxes and, of course, another increase is in the wrong direction. Another point concerns the abolition of the banderols on the alcohol bottles. Although placing a sticker on a bottle may seem a very small burden, it is actually costly, and therefore it is immediately a relief for the manufacturers of these products. It is thus that some companies even put the banderols on manually outside Denmark's borders, as it simply cannot be done mechanically and it will therefore be expensive with Danish wages. With the abolition of banderols, the production speed can be increased in Danish bottlers and thus competitiveness can be improved for the benefit of employment in that industry. But it is also important to pay attention to the unintended consequences. Some assessments have been made from among others. Tax Trade Association and Wine and Spirit Drinks Organisation in Denmark. In the two associations there is a concern about the risk that it will be easier to smuggle spirits into Denmark, and that, of course, is also something we need to look at in the legislative process. In general, however, it is a positive legislative proposal that is moving towards a simpler tax system, so we look forward to good committee treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, on behalf of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125152802	Thank you. Without insulting anyone, I'm looking down at the good government officials from the Treasury Department... one might well venture to call this bill a bit of a rum ball proposal. We get around pretty good, and there's a little bit of everything in there. In the end, one must hope that it will be as delicious as such a rum ball from the baker can be. It is fine with such a bill that many things will be lost to the Left's rapporteur when he had to list it all when the purpose is honourable, namely to make it easier to operate in Denmark. In the government, we work purposefully and systematically to simplify rules for Danish companies. We are listening to the companies; among other things, we are listening to them. We do this in the form of our Corporate Forum for simpler rules. Here we have company representatives at director level who point to the biggest burdens for businesses, and this is also where they come up with proposals for simplifications. So far, we have accepted more than 80%. of their proposals. The aim is quite simple to give companies the air to do what they do best, namely to create development and jobs. With the bill here, we will continue with that work. We simplify a number of administrative rules in the field of work from more simple rules on gas measurements at cook customers, by re-establishing penalties for driving without payment of toll to the abolition of gangs on spirits. The last proposal, that is to say, the proposal to abolish alcohol bands, so that in future companies do not have to put bandoles on alcohol bottles before sale, is one of the changes and simplifications which have received a lot of comments from those entitled to a hearing. The concern is whether it will present challenges with illegal imports and the resale of spirits, and these are, in fact, very sympathetic concerns. That is why I should like to make a few comments on them here. In relation to whether the lack of banderols in the future will make SKAT's control more difficult, it is worth remembering that there are various parameters that are included in the control, such as transaction tracking • the bottle sizes, which are usually not on the Danish market, are something one looks for, it may be 1 litre bottles, or what language the back label is on, which pawn marks are there etc. We also note that the vast majority of goods subject to excise duty do not have any gangs or tax marks. We find that, for example. Not on our chocolate, we don't find it on beer, and we don't find it on wine either. By abolishing the bands, spirits are thus equated with wine. The vines were removed in 2001 and the assessment is that this has not caused any problems in this area. Then there are some who point to a desire for a higher fine size. I would like to say that there are no figures from the industry showing that there is an increase in intra-Community trade in spirits, and that is why there is nothing out there that really means that we should increase the amount of fines for illegal trade, but sympathetic is the fact that we are concerned about it and concerned about it. We have launched the Business Forum for simpler rules, we have set up the Business Taxation Committee, we have now adopted and implemented a number of growth plans. At the same time, we have looked at various taxes that have hampered growth • the fat tax, the entrepreneurial tax, the multimedia tax • and in this way this bill is, after all, a very good extension of the many other measures in which we are struggling to make it easier to operate in Denmark and thus also to help create jobs and growth. That is why this is a rum ball of a bill to which the Socialists say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. And Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153139	Thank you. I think it's safe to say that we're dealing with a law that deals with an incredibly wide variety of things. A large number of different legislations are being amended, and when at the same time there are four different proposals that change a great many things, one can only fear that it could end up with some lawlessness. Just in this proposal there are some technical things, and to change in as many as 33 different legislations in one bill, I think that is quite violent, and that is why I would ask that it be raised in the Bureau if it is necessary to try to reduce the use of these collective laws. Because when 33 different legislations are amended in one legislative proposal, it might well indicate that it has been a bit off track. As I said, this proposal deals with many different things. I do not want to go into the details of many of them, because the vast majority of them, I think, are positive, but I would just like to take a few things out. The first is the abolition of alcohol bands. Nowadays, it is the case that gang racks do not have any significance in relation to tax calculations, and there are some obstacles, you might say, in relation to business, because you have to manually unpack and put the gang racks on the line in relation to many other things that can run quite quickly through a conveyor belt. In this way it can be said that this is a good relaxation in relation to that part of the industry, but there are also some things that we need to take into account before we just do this and that is the fear, which has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs, that there can be some illegal trade, because it is now becoming harder to spot that it is, for example. is a foreign booze on the shelves. So I would like to announce that in the committee work we will of course try to ask a little about what we have in mind in relation to the control efforts. Could it be an idea to raise the fines, and what would it possibly have to do with the effect of reducing the incentive to cheat on them? We immediately agree that this could be a good administrative relief for the industry, but there is the part about fraud that we need to look at a little more closely. Another small point I would like to mention is the change compared to the loose sale of coarsely cut smoking tobacco, which I think makes good sense. In Denmark we can no longer sell cigarettes and other tobacco in bulk. It has to be a certain amount, and this is now being eased by saying that water pipe tobacco can now be taxed as ordinary smoking tobacco, so that it allows for loose sales; it makes sense that when you get a water pipe served in a café, you do not need to buy a lot of tobacco from a cave to smoke a single pipe. I think that can be positive. Another point I would like to mention is that the penalty for driving without payment of the toll should be restored to a penalty which was abolished on 1 October 2008 when the road tax was digitised. Then, naturally, the penalty clause was removed when the paper certificate was missing; of course, it did not make sense when it was digitized. But what was a little strange about it was that a sanction was not then established on the digital front. Now it has been running since 2008 and up to now, without there having been that possibility, and I think it is rather strange that we have not reacted to it in the past. So I really do not think it makes any sense that we have not reacted to this before. This applies both to the current government and to the previous government as well. However, the overall aim of this bill is to simplify a number of administrative rules and reduce the burden on business and reduce the burden on industry. We think that is a very good proposal, and that is why we are very positive about it, but we would just like to ask a little more about it with the banderols.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153528	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153536	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has now come to the essence of this proposal, namely to ease the burden on business and to look at a number of administrative rules in the area of taxation, so to see how we can relax there. And that's the essence of this. You talk a lot about cost of doing business, that is, the cost of running a business in Denmark, and you often look at these primary factors as wages, that is. wage competitiveness, and fiscal policy. But the cost of doing business, that is, the cost of doing business, is also about burdens. The more burdens there are, the more administrative rules compliance, there is, the greater resource features there are among companies. So it is also a parameter that matters to the cost level of companies. What we are doing here is relaxing administrative pressure, and I think that is very important. I also think it is important that we in the Treasury have the approach that it is not only about getting revenue in the Treasury, but that it is also about looking at what it is that creates growth in the business world. So overall I could, of course, discuss the various elements, but I will not do so, I will stick to the principle of this. I would say that this is a legislative proposal that we can so much support in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153717	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153729	As has already been mentioned, the draft law contains a number of amendments and adjustments, and this is something that we in the SF overall welcome. We can therefore also support the proposed simplifications in the area of taxation, a better obligation to provide information and, above all, the restoration of the penalty for non-payment of tolls. Overall, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153757	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125153806	The tax area is known for having these proposals that strike all sorts together. Others have mentioned it here with, you move from banderols on alcohol bottles, and then suddenly on one side you have to decide on the long-term effects of dioxide on earthworms. I still think it's a little bad compared to what I've seen in the past, even though I think I've seen a lot. Then there are some who say that it is wrong to pile it up like this, and that is a view which, as a starting point, I fully share. However, I would say that one has to think, because this could then have triggered 33 different bills, and then we wouldn't have finished here right away if each one had to go through that buzzerum. So I am not sure that dividing things up always provides greater legal certainty or greater legislative quality. I think we would all have had the same trouble with 33 separate legislative proposals that we have had reading this through. Where I think it has been worse over the years is where we do something in one direction in one part of the legislative proposal and saw something in the opposite direction in the other part of the legislative proposal. We have seen examples of this. There are also examples of trying to sneak something through in a trustworthy bill, and then suddenly there is one small thing. There I think it is much more important to pay attention and take action; taking the various proposals that are here, I think may be okay compared to the alternative, i.e. 33 separate legislative proposals. Then I would say that there are a lot of simplifications, and we can support them immediately. We will, of course, listen if anyone gives us warnings that something is wrong here; then we will have to deal with it in committee. I am one of those who also believe that removing the gang racks from alcohol bottles is a bad idea. I'm sure it'll increase the chance of cheating and smuggling, and I think that's a bad idea. So we will also be aware of this in committee work, i.e. whether it is now the best part of the legislative proposal. There is another part of the legislative proposal that no one else has mentioned, namely that it prevents start-up VAT cheating from financial companies, and it is clear that when I read something like this from a bill, it makes my heart beat extra hot for the bill. So, apart from the matter of the bands, I assume that we support the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154043	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, rapporteur. No, sorry, there was a brief remark from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154054	I would like to say something about this debate that there are so many changes to the law, in this case 33 in one legislative proposal where Mr. Frank Aaen then says that the alternative might have been that we should spend far too long here in the Danish Parliament discussing 33 different bills. However, there is another possibility, namely that 33 different legislative proposals are being tabled, but that they are being co-ordinated at first and second reading and are being put to the vote separately, so that the parties can actually vote according to their belief in the various legislative proposals without being forced to vote for anything they are against if they want to vote for something they are in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154135	That does not change the fact that the 33 legislative proposals need to be dealt with. I started by saying that I kind of agree that it can go too far in bringing together proposals. I've given the same speech as others in the past against that pile-up. If that is the case, and it may sound as if there are many parties that want to get exactly the same thing with banderols out of the bill, then you have to make a division. And I would like to say that there have been individual cases in which I have said that the requirement for division corresponds more to a kind of political teasing, but if there is a factual reason, and that is usually when parties ask for a bill to be divided so that they can vote for what they are for and against the rest, then we support division, and we will do so in this case too, for example. with the banderols.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154225	Then there is one more brief comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154233	I'm sorry, sir. Frank Aaen needs to go up and down the stairs. I am glad that we agree with the overall message that it is a mess that so many legislative proposals have been put together, but I also did not say that all 33 should be dealt with separately, but to treat 33 together is, after all, very, very many. After all, it could have been divided into some lumps where it made more sense. When I just mention the first five proposals as there are, it says a little about how different the proposals are: the law on the taxation of hermetically sealed nickel-cadmium accumulators; the law on the tax of pesticides; the fuel consumption tax law; the law on the tax of cfc; and the chocolate tax law. These are very different areas, all of which are very technical. What makes you make 33 proposals in one proposal? After all, you could split it up and say that what is about tobacco was in one proposal, what is about something environmentally technical, was in another. Why don't you do a split? 33 is perhaps violent, but 33 proposals in one proposal are at least quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154331	I also think that I just mentioned that before calling for the legislative proposal to be divided into 33 proposals, perhaps we should consider it again, and that is the point, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær does, I can hear, i.e. considering whether one could do it in another way, and I will be very positive about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154349	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154357	Yeah, well, I'll make another comment on that, sir. Frank Aaen said, and I am delighted that Mr. Frank Aaen says that Enhedslisten always supports other parties' amendments to split bill. It doesn't quite match my memory of how Enhedslisten acts in such cases. But when Mr. Frank Aaen says that this is what it is apparently going to do in the future, so I would say that we have a legislative proposal that we are dealing with yes, on a stand-by basis I cannot remember what this is all about, but it is something we are dealing with in these weeks when we are tabling amendments on division. To this bill: as others have said, we are talking about a lot of good facilitations and clarifications that we can support, and then there is one thing we are concerned about in this bill, namely the fact that we are now going to consider road welfare as insurance and are going to introduce an insurance tax on road welfare services. It is not obvious to me that roadside assistance is an insurance policy. For me, it is a practical help that is offered to drivers in Denmark in line with, for example. the practical help offered by companies offering security systems for the home, which means that if the alarm is howling because there has been a break-in, they will come out and look. And I am not aware of that as an insurance benefit. I don't really see how this roadside thing should be different from that. It is a concrete benefit, and it is not something about the payment of a sum of money if you experience an injury, so we are sceptical about that. And we must then take up our position in the course of the examination of the legislative proposal, i.e. whether we are so sceptical about it that we will not vote in favour of the whole legislative proposal, in which there are so many other excellent things. But that is the problem of co-operation. If amendments are tabled to the effect that this roadside aid should be dragged into an independent proposal, and if the other bourgeois parties in the Folketing support that amendment, then I have no expectation that Enhedslisten will support it so that the bill will be shared. This has not happened before, and I do not expect it to happen this time either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154641	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154644	I don't think sir. Ole Birk Olesen listened carefully to what I said before. I said that we normally support the division of legislative proposals if there is any factual reason to do so, but we have also sometimes voted against if it is politically teasing them, there have been a few examples of or if you want to divide the bill so that you take the funding out and the spending of money out into another law. Then you can vote for the good and avoid voting for the bad, even if the two things are linked, because the income is the prerequisite for the expenditure. We have voted against this. There we think it is to run away from responsibility or teasing, but our normal approach to proposals for the division of legislative proposals is to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154732	I heard Mr. Frank Aaen such that Enhedslisten considers it an objective reason, that when you cram various changes together into a bill and then there are some parties that think that some of it is good and some of it is bad, then it is a matter of fact to divide it up, because then it allows the parties to vote according to their beliefs in the Chamber. In this case, that's what this is about. It is about the fact that part of the legislative proposal is somewhat sceptical about, but the rest we think is quite good, and that is why, if we thought it was useful, we would like to table amendments to the effect that it should be split up. Our experience is that when we do that, in other words, we put forward such amendments, it does not matter what reason we have, because Enhedslisten always votes with the government that this is not an objective reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154819	Sir. Frank Aaen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154822	It is simply a wrong interpretation of what Enhedslisten has done and what Enhedslisten has said, because Enhedslisten has said as late as a minute ago: if there is a cause and if it is not teasing, understood in that way that one would like to vote for an income and not for an expense. But that is not the case here. I even mentioned in the example that someone is coming and asking for a division, and that with gangs on alcohol bottles is taken out so that you can vote separately on it, and if the rest has gathered, we will look at it. If the Liberal Alliance has a proposal to split up the proposal, we'll look into it. We are, in fact, some of those who I am quite sure most consistently in this Chamber have voted in favour of division.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154904	Then I'll just take what I hear, Mr. Simpson. Frank Aaen tells me, that if amendments are tabled to the effect that this roadside assistance should be regarded as insurance and that it should be subject to insurance tax and that it should be taken out and dealt with independently, Mr. Frank Aaen that it is an objective amendment, and the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of it, and that certainly increases the likelihood that we would like to table that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154930	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Brian Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125154938	This is all good from the sea, a wealth of different measures, a wealth of different proposals, most of which, and this is remarkable, are quite excellent proposals. It is strange for a conservative to stand up here and praise a socialist tax proposal, but there are some quite sensible changes in various specific areas that make life a little easier, remove some of the bureaucracy and, in general, act as a simplification. That is why we must also see the day when a conservative praises a socialist tax proposal. There are two elements which have also been mentioned by several others, which we would like to cultivate more closely. The first is the question of the bands. We have had a lot of doubts as to whether it has been a good idea or a bad idea to remove the bands. There is no doubt that the removal of gangs makes it easier for companies to deal with administrative problems. Makes life a little easier. Our entire starting point as legislators must of course be to make sure that it is the easiest possible to run a business, that it is the easiest possible to set up a business and that it is also the easiest possible to be a small self-employed person. So it's gonna cause some problems, some challenges, that the gangs are going on these bottles. That's one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is, of course, that we are also warned in the hearings that this might be a starting point for more smuggling. It's harder to check if there are bottles coming from x- or y-land and you can't just see a banderole on them and there isn't really anything to compare with. That is why I think it is important that we have just grown it during the committee's deliberations, in other words what we can do to intensify this effort. Nobody's interested in more smuggling. Firstly, it is criminal, the Treasury is losing money, but secondly, it also creates distortions of competition in relation to the legitimate importers of the goods in question, which is that others will then get easier by perhaps creating some sort of illegal parallel imports. So we must at least have done that in committee: what can be done to protect legal imports and to stop illegal parallel imports? Another aspect that we are aware of is the problem of road safety. Everything else equal will make it more expensive for such an insurance tax to be applied. We do not think this is a good way to go. We would like to have as much competition as possible in the area of both large and small players, and if it becomes a little more expensive for some people we recognise that it is not very much money, but it does matter anyway that an insurance tax is put on the line, competition will be a little worse by it. So we would also like to have it cultivated and discussed during the committee procedure. However, we are in favour of the proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125155234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. It's the tax minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125155246	Inspired by the last speaker from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen not only because of the praise, thanks for it, but just as much because of the emphasis on the balance between the need for control on the one hand and the need to think in terms of how we make it easy for companies, but also because of the need for control on the other hand, but also because we need to think in terms of how we make it easy for companies. That is the art that we are always out in, because rules are usually introduced for some reason, for some reason or another, and when we are then met with a view from, for example, the business community that there is a rule that has been messed up, then it is an eternal balance of whether it actually makes sense to abolish or relax the rule in question. At any rate, I would like to thank you for the reception that has been given to this draft law, and that is quite right, as several people have said, and I recognise that it is a bit of a bill that is quite a mouthful, whether you call it anything good from the sea or the rum ball, or whatever else has been said in the course of the debate, understood in the sense that this is a proposal which consists of many different elements. However, I would also like to stress at the same time that there is, of course, the line in that the overall aim of the legislative proposal is to simplify a number of administrative rules in the field of taxation and, in this respect, to reduce the administrative burdens on business, which I believe everyone has also mentioned. As an example of this, I can mention the proposal to simplify the access of registered recipients to tax refunds on exports of taxable goods. This would be an administrative relief for many companies. The proposal to abolish banderols on alcohol bottles will also provide a great relief for companies which, in future, will not be required to put banderols on alcohol bottles before sale. In this context, a number of rapporteurs made comments, including: Mr. Mads Rørvig and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and the rapporteur of the Conservatives also addressed the issue. Compared with illegal trade, there is no indication that the abolition of gangs will lead to an increase in illegal trade. In 2001, the bands on wine were removed when the requirement to wear gangs was abolished, which did not cause any problems. But, of course, I understand that there is a need to elaborate on the issues which, among other things, have to be addressed. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was on the subject, for example: the question of control, and we would like to do more about that in the subsequent committee procedure. This also applies to the issue of fines. I can tell you here, for the sake of order, that the level of fines today is such that if you find illegal imported spirits, you must, of course, pay first and foremost the evasion that has been committed, that is to say the tax that should have been paid, and then there is a fine which amounts to one and a half times the evasion that is, moreover, being made up. That is where the level of fines is today. And it is clear that the crucial thing here is how much this evasion is, and that is also where the fine is imposed. But we can come back to the question of this in committee, too, if there is also a question of what practice is in this area. In line with the government base, the government generally works to reduce the administrative burden on businesses, thus making it easier to operate in Denmark. A number of initiatives have already been implemented. An example of this could be to mention the significant reductions resulting from the growth plans, including the roll-back of security of supply tax, the simplification and relaxation of electricity tax, the abolition of weight-based packaging tax, the abolition of the soda-ash tax, the reduction of beer tax and such things. The initiatives in the bill here follow on from the government's previous work to ensure that Danish companies get the best conditions to compete in the global market. During the course of the debate, the question of roadside assistance subscriptions was also mentioned by the rapporteurs of both the Left and the Liberal Alliance. As far as this is concerned, there are two elements. One, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said, is the question: why introduce this tax in this area? There I think it is important to stress that it is today only insurance companies which impose this tax on roadside assistance subscriptions. Others who provide roadside assistance subscriptions do not therefore pay the same tax. So the aim of the draft law is therefore to eliminate the distortion of competition inherent in it, so that in future it is clear from the law that there is a uniform tax payment on road welfare subscriptions, regardless of who the provider is. So this is about creating a level playing field. The rapporteur of the Left raised the issue of distortion of competition, which is mentioned in one of the consultations. There I think it is worth pointing out that the date of entry into force of this amendment to the law has been postponed until 1 July 2015 in relation to the proposal under consultation. This has just been done in order to respond to companies' desire for time to be given to implement the necessary IT systems so that they can handle the payment of this non-life insurance tax on equal terms with insurance companies. So there has already been a response in this area. I do not know whether the Left rapporteur has any further questions about this, but we can of course turn it around further in committee. I would like to thank you for the debate, which has been wide-ranging, also on various procedures in the Folketing. I am quite sure that this is an issue which the Bureau of Parliament will discuss and which they usually discuss regularly, but I will leave it to the Bureau of Parliament. In any case, I would like to thank you for the debate and I look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125155953	Thank you, Minister. There are just a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160010	I think what I can hear is that roadside assistance is an insurance benefit because it is also offered by insurance companies. So if insurance companies start selling bananas, bananas will also be an insurance benefit. In other words, is an insurance benefit not insurance against some accident, and if the accident occurs, you get an amount from the insurance company to cover your loss in the accident? I would like to ask: when companies offering burglar alarms come out and look whether there are thieves in the house and close the house off etc., it is also insurance services because it can also be said that the funding is in some way collective and that the good is greater for those who are hit by burglars than for those who are not hit by burglars etc.? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160108	The details of why roadside assistance purchased through insurance companies has been reached are an insurance benefit, and I should like to come back to that in committee; I cannot explain that precisely now. But at least the conclusion is that, as the situation is today, there is a difference between the types of roadside help that are bought through an insurance company and those that do not, and that is a distortion of competition that we are ironing out with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160147	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160150	I want to stay on track. If I am not mistaken, the reason why the Minister makes the proposal is that a decision has been taken by the Tax Council, which has not been one that the Minister thought was right. But if this is the competitive argument, why is it always the case that the answer from the government is that if something is taxed and something is not, there must be an imbalance, and then the solution is always Well, I know it must be difficult for a social democrat, but is the Minister able to give just one example of how one has thought: okay, if there is a competitive difference here, one could try to make it easier
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160243	This is, of course, an exciting and philosophical debate. I do not know whether it is a proposal from the Left that part of the insurance tax should be abolished. That is certainly not what we want, and funding for that must then also be provided if necessary. But it is also clear that if there is an inequality in things, we will of course also seek to correct that imbalance from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160310	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160312	I don't have any concrete proposals, but I'm just wondering about this approach. Because, in addition to that, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said, this just has to happen all of a sudden. And if you're going to go a little further back in the history of this, I guess it's a question of which insurances were stampmarks on earlier ones, because they were paid tax on them. It has then been modernised. So there has never been excise duty on road help, but that is what the Minister is going to do now, and then the Minister just has to be honest and say that it is because he thinks there are some who pay too little in tax and not say it is something about competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160348	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160351	No, the point is that if you have roadside help subscriptions through your insurance company, you pay this tax. The discussion is, of course, the one, whether we should abolish such a payment and it is quite okay to have that view, but if so, we should also find funding for it. It is not, I understand, a proposal on which the Left subscribes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160418	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160431	The first speaker is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160443	If you are going to find a word that characterizes this government, then it has been baptized quickly, and it is still hanging by, as a government of promise, for it has really been able to deliver in numerous breaches of promise. I know that the 2011 elections seem to be a long way back, so just a little history writing, because there were actually no limits to how big and mild gifts would be pouring out on the Danes if only we had a new government. I think most people can remember two teachers' scheme in schools, fewer children in classes, the pension supplement was to be increased by DKK 5,000, all transfer income had to be increased by DKK 2,000, the benefit reform had to be rolled back, the early retirement scheme should not be touched, development aid should be raised to 1%. of GNP, and municipalities and regions had the prospect of budget austerity. When the VK government, as part of the recovery package, set a ceiling on the right of deduction for professional quotas of DKK 3,000, the Social Democracy and the SF were red-hot. In the shimmering election paper "Fair Solution 2020" there were therefore no slings in the waltz either. This tightening had to be rolled back 100 percent. The proposal from S and SF was a promise to 900 million. kr. Now, I know that the pen operator of Fair Solution 2020... the current Finance Minister, has had to admit that it was underfunded with somewhere between 22 and 39 billion. kr., and then, of course, it was difficult to fulfill the promises. Perhaps that is the reality that has also hit the government in this area when, exceptionally, an attempt is made to honour an election promise, because then the government cannot even do it completely, because the increase in the deduction ceiling amounts to 255 million. kr. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive. kr., as the Social Democracy and the SF promised in the last election campaign. But the promise was, of course, also to abolish the ceiling and not just to increase it. But the government itself must be struggling with all this. In the Left we think this proposal is a bad way of granting tax relief, because it seems quite simply that the government is more busy paying back to the trade union movement at the last moment before the forthcoming parliamentary elections than doing something that can be helpful to the Danes and Danish economy. Instead of giving tax relief to people who are members of an expensive trade union, there was much more reason in our optics in the Left to give a relief to all Danes on the labour market. This would help to ensure that it would pay better to work, and this is absolutely necessary, but the government seems to think it is more important that it pays better to be a member of an expensive trade union than that it pays better to work. In the Left we think that there are too many Danes for whom it is not worthwhile to work. We believe that this is a major problem and we have proposed a job reform which, with a modernised ceiling on cash benefits and a reduction in the tax for people with small labour incomes, increases the difference between passive support and active employment. That is what is needed, as recent media stories clearly show. It should pay better to work to get more people into employment, but also because we also owe it in all modesty, in respect of the many Danes who every day go to work with no or only very modest gain out of it, because they must notice that it makes a difference that they go to work every day; it must be felt on the wallet. As I said, we in the Left believe that it should pay better to work. We do not think it should pay better to be a member of an expensive trade union, so we are spending instead of the money from this bill to our priorities in the field of taxation, which is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160846	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160851	It concerns such a small remark as I have heard before from the Left: this is such a kind of payment to the trade union movement. My question is, then, whether, when the Left and Conservatives together with the Danish People's Party cut the deduction and thus helped to weaken part of the trade union movement, the Left and Conservatives paid to employers and an attempt to obtain the huge subsidies they received in the last election campaign from employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160927	Now we in the Left feel like we're not making contracts with anyone. But we have seen that the trade union movement has done this with the Social Democracy, the SF and also with the Enhedslisten in a number of municipalities. In concrete terms, electoral contributions have been made, subject to a certain policy, and that is something, Mr President. Frank Aaen must be very familiar with. We are not in the Left; we believe that the policy must be on its own account. But it is fair enough that the Social Democracy, SF and Enhedslisten make agreements with the trade union movement to conduct a certain policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125160959	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161001	Enhedslisten has not entered into agreements to make a particular policy. We have a certain policy and those who support it can support us; that is fine. But now I asked after I had brought the bribery element into the discussion about the fact that the Left and Conservatives cut the tax advantage for union members and thereby weakened the trade union movement was a kind of payment to business, to companies. At any rate, it triggered enormous contributions to the blue bloc; we have seen that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161044	It has not been payment for anything, and I believe that anyone who remembers the recovery package knows that it was a difficult exercise and that there were many places where funding was found. And to me it is just striking that a promise made very clearly by the Social Democracy and the SF prior to the last elections that it should be rolled back immediately, we have not seen anything, but then it comes funny enough here with the government's last financial law before a parliamentary election. Well, that's remarkable.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161117	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161121	Thank you. I have a very specific question, and when you have it I have gradually learned, after several years in the Danish Parliament, that you should not comment on anything else that you might want to comment on. So now comes the very specific question: what can we expect will happen to the deduction for professional quotas if things go so wrong that the Left gets the keys to the PM's office after the next election?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161144	As I said, in the financial bill that the Left has put forward for 2015, we have said that we will spend the money on something else. For we believe that there is a greater need to reinstate a housing job scheme that the government abolishes, to abolish NO x And we are spending the money on that in our financial bill for 2015, because we have to note that the financial bill proposed by the government is completely devoid of new growth initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161217	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161220	It's very clear to the 1.3 million Danes, or how many people it is that are going to be able to benefit from this proposal, that it will be rolled back. Because that is how I hear the rapporteur of the Left saying it, that is to say, that a bill will be tabled on the part of the Left that will roll back this improvement when you gain power. Is that correct, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161243	No, it is not true that every time we in the Left vote against a bill in which the government makes one and the other in the area of taxation, it means that we promise to roll it back. That would, if it were, mean that we would have to spend enormous amounts of our room for manoeuvre just to eliminate a number of the government's accidents, and that is why we always reserve the right to make a tax policy on top of the one in force at the moment when power had to change. But I just have to say that it is fair talk that one would rather give priority to people being able to get a higher deduction for being a member of an expensive trade union than to take initiatives that create growth and private jobs in Denmark. That is what we in the Left are giving priority to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161328	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161335	Thank you. I can see that we rapporteurs, who have had to sit and prepare for this bill, have so far been put in the same mood, namely such a memory spirit. At any rate, I also begin my rapporteur's speech here today by dwelling a little on the achievements of the previous government, although it is some time ago. When the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party were in power, they gave both large and skewed tax concessions to the wealthiest in the country. They were either under-financed or unfinanced, at least this meant that a large hole was struck in the treasury, while the richest could see tax cuts much larger than those that the ordinary Danes could receive. It goes without saying that it was probably festive for some. With the 2009 red wine reform, the richest received a tax relief of 2.7 million. kr. a year, while the pensioner received 150 kroner. a month, a big party for some and button for the cookies for others. On the bottom line it was that it was really bad for the common fund. The economic crisis roared from there, we all know it, we were poorly prepared for the crisis, the good times had been sunk up, and this meant that we were faced with a very large bill that had to be paid. The rapporteur has also mentioned this in the sense that he himself referred to the so-called recovery agreement concluded between the Left, the Conservative and the Danish People's Party in May 2010 and in which people with ordinary wages were then put to pay the bill that was unpaid, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are debating today concerns the limitation of their deductions from quotas for professional organizations. That was both an unfair and a wrong way of paying the crisis bill, which is why I am glad that today we are correcting it with the legislative proposal we are dealing with. I understand from the rapporteur of the Left that he has been impatient for this to happen, and all the more joy can then be when we are actually dealing with the legislative proposal today. In fact, it is part of the agreement on the Finance Act for 2015 between the government, SF and Enhedslisten that we raise the ceiling on deductions for trade union quotas from VKO's 3,000 DKK. for 6,000 kroner. from 2015 onwards. Blood money we've heard from Mr. Left. Torsten Schack Pedersen calls it, and I just have to say in parentheses here from the platform that I think it is a bit of a gangster rhetoric to use about giving a tax relief to about 1.3 million employees. I would like to make it very clear that blood money is not something this government is using. Perhaps it is different in the Left, yes, I do not really know, I have never really been able to become wise about the Left's dealings with money or the reluctance of people to organise themselves to create a better working life for themselves and for each other. What we, as Social Democrats, are concerned with is strengthening the way we organise our labour market. This requires equal cooperation between employees, employers and the public sector, and therefore a high level of organisation, good, active trade union movements and employers' organisations are very important for the way our society works. To remove VKO's ceiling on employee deductions for the professional quota strengthens cooperation on precisely the model that Danish finance ministers have travelled around the world over time and told about. It is also a hint that it is a very good idea to join that part of the trade union movement which assumes a great deal of social responsibility and which every day fights against social dumping, against wage printing and for proper working conditions in construction sites, nursing homes, and hotels around the country. A good labour market and the Danish model, which we pride ourselves on around the world, do not come by itself. Since 2011, the government has allocated over half a billion to the fight against social dumping, and with the 2015 Finance Act we have allocated a further 120 million. kr. until 2018, including: to SKAT, the Labour Inspectorate and the police in 2015 can double the number of on-the-job inspections. We are fighting against illegal cabotage and social dumping in major infrastructure projects, and we are strengthening the information effort in relation to the Danish model, because it is precisely the strongest safeguard against social dumping. Therefore, this bill is clearly in addition to all the efforts for strong trade union movements in Denmark and the Danish model. And then the draft law also contains a completely different element, which I should like to mention here at the end. In fact, we propose to bring forward the effect of Law No. 1398 of 23 December 2012 with 1 year. This means that periods of residence or employment in Greenland and the Faroe Islands are treated in the same way as periods of residence or employment in Denmark when you have to calculate children's and young people's benefits or benefits under the Family Allowance Act 2012. It is, as I understand it, as it should be in the Kingdom community in this area, as is the case in many other areas, namely that we regard it as a parallel issue. There is reasonableness in that, and there is, of course, if I am to sum up now that the time is running out, as a whole in this draft law, then there is a great deal of reasonableness in that. I have to say that I am not quite sure that I really learned more about what will happen to the deduction of the professional quota if government power changes. On the one hand, the Left would like to use the money for something quite different, but on the other hand, you might want to, perhaps not roll it back. In any case, the Socialists will vote in favour and we will do everything we can to ensure that this is not rolled back after a forthcoming election.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161907	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161911	I would like the Social Democrat rapporteur to explain why the electoral promise that was made is still not being fulfilled. Well, why is that just some of it? Now you've been pushing this for three years, compared to what you promised, and then you're not going to finish what you promised. I would really like an answer to that. Then I would also like to know how many jobs are coming out of this proposal and what a beneficial effect it has on the Danes' desire to work more. Because I don't know if this is the proposal that should be seen as something that promotes growth and employment; at least we haven't seen other things from the government in this financial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125161954	Well, that is an almost touching concern, which one understands one should feel by the rapporteur of the Left, and thank you for that. I would say that the proposal we are putting forward is a good thing that is now becoming reality. Has this been discussed in the past? Yeah, I guess it's no secret that there's been. It is not something that the Left has had any desire to be involved in making an agreement on. And, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I probably never fully understand the Left's dislike for some of the fundamentals of Danish society, namely that people organise themselves to create a better working life for themselves and for others. And that's what's at the core here. This is the best protection, so to make sure that we have a strong trade union movement, that we have the collective models we have in Denmark. And that is the best way to protect against social dumping, against some who are bumping out of the Danish labour market, against working conditions and wage conditions, which have been fought away from decades ago. The fact that the Left is reluctant to do so leaves me with doubts as to the extent to which Mr. Claus Hjort Pedersen, I think it was, for some years back came to dream of the possibility of competing with German wages. And I just want to say that it will never ever be on the Social Democrats' programme to approach us a state where you can be an arm trotz-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s. And that's what this is all about to make sure we don't. Maybe that's what the Left thinks it's gonna take. I think that's a creepy vision.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162106	Thank you. Before mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen has the floor again, and I should like to point out that the person mentioned is Claus Hjort Frederiksen and not Claus Hjort Pedersen. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162123	Well, I think that if Mrs Astrid Krag has failed to listen to what her former and present party colleague Mr. Ole Sohn says, of course, one can have the view that what is happening in the world around us does not matter. But I just have to say that the Social Democrat rapporteur cannot say that this proposal in any way contributes to the creation of more people in employment, that it makes it more attractive to be in work. And I just think it's a shame that the government has a 31-page financial agreement that has been clinically cleared of growth initiatives, and then you choose this one. And yes, it may well be that it is polemical to say that you are not even fulfilling your own electoral vows, but Mrs Astrid Krag must then stand by and explain to the people who voted for the Social Democracy and the SF why this promise should not be taken quite so literally.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162225	I am not quite sure which part of the proposal Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is very angry about. If you look at what the proposal costs, which was what I was initially able to hear there was a great deal of concern for, I would say that this will result in less revenue of 810 million. kr. in 2015, and it will then be a lower amount after reflow. But if it is, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is very sorry, I would say that I really think that figure is relatively close to what we have talked about in the past. I would just like to say that it is then paradoxical that on a day when we have just dealt with an extension of the tax regime that allows Danish companies to compete globally for the smartest brains for key employee positions and research assignments in Danish companies, we need to know that we are not concerned about what is happening in the world around us and that it does not matter. It is always fun to hear the words of the rapporteur of the Left. And if I had had a little more time and the President had not got up, I would also have liked to tell you a little more about what it is in the Finance Act that helps ensure growth and jobs, but we must then take that in a different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162324	In the second round you have only 30 seconds, but I am sure the rapporteur is welcome to go into the second round and take the floor. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162336	With this bill you raise the ceiling for how high a union quota you can deduct from your tax payment, from DKK 3,000. 6,000 kroner, and that's in absolute terms. Then it'll be a while, and then it'll be inflation. It comes every year, and then 6,000 kroner. no longer 6,000 kroner. Worth it. This is going to be less and less worth, and in 10 years it might be 10-20 per cent. It's worth less than today. I want to know if the Socialists will then withdraw it again. In other words, will the Socialists then regulate it upwards so that it is not undermined by inflation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162422	If nothing else, I must say to the bourgeois, that I think it is fantastic about the detailed interest in how we have chosen to put this together. This is, after all, a proposal that is rolling back the deterioration that was chosen to make part of the recovery package. There the crisis bill was sent to ordinary Danish employees. That is what we are correcting here. What else is needed to strengthen and secure the Danish model 10 years in the future, I do not think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen can get someone to stand and make an exhaustive list of. But one thing you can see very, very clearly, if you look at the efforts under the bourgeois government with the Danish People's Party as a support party and at the current government, is that we are deeply concerned about fighting for a proper Danish labour market without social dumping and without antisocial wage pressure. We will continue to be. And contrary to what could be seen under the bourgeois government, we are also following up the economic priorities of the area, so that SKAT, together with other authorities, can carry out far more inspections on jobs across the country and, indeed, next year over twice as many as this year. So the rapporteur cannot get an exhaustive list from me, but the rapporteur can be quite confident that this is an area where we will be following developments and watching over the Danish model, which has helped to make Denmark as strong a country as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162537	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162540	It's impressive, so long answers you can give without answering the question. But that must sometimes be accepted in politics. What is just interesting is: If you think it is very important that there is a deduction option of up to DKK 6,000. In 2015, you have to realize that in 2016 is DKK 6,000. not worth the same as in 2015, and in 2017 it is worth even less and in 2018 even less again. What has been put forward in the draft law is that the value of this deduction is going to fall year by year because of inflation, and that is why it is said that it costs only 250 million. kr. But in the first year it costs 570 million. kr., and then it costs 535 million. kr., and it is inflation that makes it fall in value.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162636	Well I will not stand here on the platform and present a complete list of 10 years in the future, as was asked, of what we think it is necessary to ensure that we also have the Danish model in the future, and that we have a Danish labour market where we can jointly help to deal with proper pay and working conditions. It does not make sense; it cannot be done. Then I would like to say about the care for PL regulations and inflation in this proposal: the proposal looks as it stands and it is funded in the financial bill that lies. What will then become part of the financial law negotiations in ten years' time, I cannot predict. But I can give a guarantee which I have already given once, namely that the fight against social dumping and the fact that we have a proper Danish model with strong trade union movements capable of lifting the interests of employees, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also sees the Social Democrats leading next year, next year again, the year after that and even in 10 years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we shall see if the rapporteur is the same in this area in ten years' time. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125162739	This bill comes from the 2015 Finance Act, and in it we can clearly see that we are approaching a parliamentary election. Over the last few years we have been bothering our friends in the trade union movement, and here we have the last Finance Act before an election, and then we have to hand out some gifts. It is a rather normal tactic, no matter which government is now sitting, that just before an election you have to make a financial law that gives a good start. I would just like to say thank you because it is so easily transparent that this is what we are doing. The proposal is, of course, about increasing the ceiling on deductions for trade union quotas from today DKr 3 000. to DKK 6,000, and this is to support a high degree of organisation in the labour market. In Denmark we are very pleased with the Danish model, where the social partners with employers, on the one hand, and the workers themselves, on the other hand, negotiate agreements, wage conditions and, in general, conditions in the labour market. It is important that there is a good balance in the relationship of strength between the two, and we have seen for a number of years that a large number of people have resigned from the trade unions, which has thus created an imbalance. In other countries, it is politicians who are negotiating agreements, and I do not think that should be the case in Denmark. But if the Danish model is to make sense, we also need to have a balance in this, so there is also a strength in the union. That is why we in the Danish People's Party think it makes sense that we now want to give a political incentive and point out that it is good to be a member of a union so that we can maintain the good model. Another good reason, we think, is the issue of welfare tourism and social dumping, where trade unions play a very significant role in avoiding and combating it. I also think that is an important and good argument for increasing the deduction of trade union quotas now. I would just like to say briefly that we can also support the second element of the law, which has not been mentioned by so many people, namely the amendment of the law on family allowances and the advance payment of child allowances in respect of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In general terms, we are also quite in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163001	Thank you. This is Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163008	Thank you. As I also said to the rapporteur of the Left, it is not the case that this proposal has suddenly popped up in the context of the financial law negotiations, which I agree with the rapporteur that we must assume are the last before an election. In fact, this is something that the government has also negotiated in the past. It was not something on which the Left wanted to reach an agreement, and then we have negotiated it now. My question is actually very brief: should I understand the rapporteur's announcement that in future the Danish People's Party will not vote to reduce the deduction for professional quotas, as was otherwise done in the context of the recovery agreement, which was of course supported by the bourgeois parties in reducing the deduction for the professional quota?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163050	I think it would make a great deal of sense for the Socialists to ask the Left about this, in that the Left does not support this proposal. But the Danish People's Party actually supports the increase in the deduction, so it will of course not be us who carry a reduction to the negotiating table either. Anything else would be completely illogical. But you can never predict what the future will bring. When you put it down last time, it was because Denmark was in a tough crisis. A recovery package had to be made, and there had to be 24 billion. kr. If Denmark gets back into a correspondingly hard crisis, we will not protect any areas. That is not to say that this will stand first, because it will not, but I cannot say what all other parties bring to the negotiating table and what compromises are reached on. But it will not be the Danish People's Party that is struggling to reduce the deduction for the union quota.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163128	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163131	That was a relatively interesting answer, because there was no guarantee that one would be against it. You do not want to carry it to the negotiating table yourself, but you can risk others doing so. And it can always be hard to know who actually carries what to where. The bill that had to be paid was a bill after among other things. a tax reform in which the richest were granted tax relief on, in fact, just under 3 million. kr. a year, while the pensioner could look at 150 kroner. a month. That is why there was an exceptionally large bill to be paid, and so it was a policy that the Danish People's Party voted on. You have to remember that. I will then just try to see if I can get some pointer mark of how much resistance will then be from the Danish People's Party, if somebody else should carry this proposal back to the table. Finally, it was willing to support a halving of the right to deduct professional quotas. - Sir... Dennis Flydtkjær say something about what his gut is about, compared to how difficult or easy one will have to accept it again? Because I understand that it is certainly not excluded that the Danish People's Party will again be able to support a reduction in a deduction for professional quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163231	I can understand the fact that the Social Democrats are quite interested in providing solid guarantees. After all, we have rather poor experience of what was promised before the last elections and what was then done afterwards. I think it would be wiser not to offer very bombastic guarantees. But I can say that we in the Danish People's Party only have one interest, and I would like to make that clear. Because I am well aware that the Social Democratic Party will probably use this debate to make some sort of spin in the media that the Danish People's Party will abolish this in 10 years' time, but we will not. We have only the same interest as the Socialists in having a strong trade union movement in Denmark. We think it is a good tool we have, among other things. to combat social dumping. It is good in relation to the Danish model that there is a high degree of organisation in the trade union movement, so we also support this proposal. I would be very annoyed and not surprised if the Social Democrats were to try to do some sort of spin afterwards that now the Danish People's Party cannot guarantee anything. We support this proposal. So we agree with the message. And then I think it's a little too bad if you're going to come up with all kinds of teasing messages, but that's what we know you for.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163323	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163326	I think it's fine. The Danish People's Party voted in favour of the deterioration at the time, but it is good that we now vote in favour of it being corrected. We support that. I would just like to hope that the promises about what we have heard today are a little better than the promise that the unemployment benefit for the unemployed would not be reduced, but later proposed a halving of the benefit period. Or the promise that you wouldn't touch the early retirement, where you were still helping to remove the early retirement. Well, I hope this promise goes a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163359	Just to refresh the story: when you deteriorated or reduced the deduction for union allowances, it was not some ideological crusade that now you were going after those who were members of a union. It was, in effect, because there was a crisis in which there was to be 24 billion. kr. And so there was no place that could be said to be so widely protected, over a comb. It was then that a great many different groups were taken to get the economy under control. In addition to the cost to union members, employers were also affected because they paid for longer periods of time when people are ill. Well, I think it was the case that, after 3 weeks of illness with an employee, the company was reimbursed their costs. Now it's up to a month. So it was both parties in the Danish model that they chose to take money from, and then there was no one to be protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163442	Sir. Frank Aaen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163446	Now I just said that I was hoping this promise would go better than with the promises that were made at the time, not to touch the right to cash benefits and not to touch the reward. But then I have to ask another question, given that the rapporteur himself has mentioned this with regard to employers: is it not a little strange that when the reduction in the deduction of trade union quotas was made, it was promised that the deduction of employers' contributions to their associations would also be reduced? But the latter was never implemented. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163523	I wasn't in the Folketing then, so I can't answer it in detail, but only from what I know about the case. As far as I know, as I was also trying to answer in the last round I had, they actually chose to take something from employers so that employers themselves would bear a greater share of the financial costs when they have employees who are ill. Where they received reimbursement before, when the employee had been ill for 3 weeks, it became after 4 weeks. And that was quite a lot of millions. I believe that this was something similar to the bill that was then given to the other party, in other words, where the deduction of trade union quotas was removed. So, as far as I am aware, you actually took something on the other side of the equation, if you can say so, the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on and the next rapporteur is Nadeem Farooq, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163612	Thank you. This bill, L 74, is the execution of the Finance Act Agreement between the Government, the SF and the Enhedslisten. With the bill, we increase the ceiling on deductions for trade union quotas and, as a supporter of the Danish labour market model, I am quite satisfied with this bill. What is incredibly important for the Danish model is that there is a high degree of organisation on both sides, and I believe there is a close link between, on the one hand, the conditions for joining unions and, on the other hand, the degree of organisation. It is not certain that the shifts will be seen in this way in the short run, but I think there is a connection. Given that we have a labour market model that is challenged in some areas, it is incredibly important that we adapt it, but it is basically a good model. The Radical Left supports it and we therefore also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163731	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Frank Aaen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163743	This is basically a very illustrative example of the fact that the blue block has an underlying agenda, which is that if you can weaken the Danish trade union movement, you do so. We have also seen this with the organisation of the employment services, where the task was deliberately moved further away from the trade union movement and into the municipalities, despite the fact that it was known that the ability of the municipalities to provide people with work was inferior to that of the employment services, for example. Was. This was also the reason for the proposal made by the VK government together with the Danish People's Party, which reduced the deduction from the union quota. It was, of course, to weaken the trade union movement and you can take a number of other examples of how the blue block has a classed policy in terms of weakening the employees' organization. That is why I acknowledge that the Danish People's Party has changed its mind and that it is not opposed to restoring the possibility of deducting contributions to the trade union movement. Of course, we support this. We have done so in the context of the Financial Law Agreement, and we are doing so in connection with this very bill, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125163929	I asked the former Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, whether it is intended that this should be regulated over time. It was because I want to know what this is actually going to cost. I'm thinking that when you propose something like this and you think there should be a deduction of DKK 6,000. In 2015, you would also think that there should be a deduction of DKK 6,000. adjusted for inflation in the coming years. You wouldn't just let it be worth nothing after 20 years because you haven't inflationaryly regulated it? So the cost of this proposal, which is set to be 255 million. kr. in a lasting way, is not the real cost that the parties behind the proposal intend to have? Because I believe that the parties behind the proposal are going to regulate inflation at some point, and that is why I believe that the lasting cost is probably closer to the 550 million. DKK as it will cost in 2016. I find that interesting, for 550 million. kr. Isn't that some kind of money? It is actually so much money that if you spent the 550 million instead. kr. to increase the employment allowance, this would mean that any Dane in work would be able to get rid of a tax bill which was DKK 200. cheaper than it is today. The 200 kroner. then not because the government decides that it is only people who have membership in an expensive red trade union that must have the tax relief. People who do not have membership in an expensive red union should have no relief whatsoever. We have thus also addressed the priorities of the Liberal Alliance. We feel that if you can give a relief of 200 kroner. For everyone at work, we clearly prefer it, rather than giving a greater relief to people who have membership of an expensive red union. That is why we do not support this proposal here, nor do we support it, because we have an expectation, when we come after the next elections, that we would like to help propose that this should be abolished again and instead we can spend the same half billion on raising the employment allowance so that everyone will benefit from this relief from taxes and not just people who are members of an expensive red trade union. There is another reason why we do not support the proposal, and that is that there is no funding for it. After all, the government's Finance Act is heavily underfunded and has a deficit of some 60 billion. kr., but it is only on condition that you have a high growth in Danish society, and the oil prices are far too high, compared to what they are really expected to be, so that the deficit is even greater than 60 billion. kr. So this is a deduction option for red trade union quotas for which there is absolutely no funding in the government's plans, so for that reason too we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164237	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164241	First of all, you might want to ask Mr. Ole Birk Olesen on how strong a requirement it will be on the part of the Liberal Alliance to roll this back. Now we could hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that this is not something you want to carry into the table, but if others do, it could happen that you will vote again to reduce deductions for professional quotas. So it is interesting to hear the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur say here, if he can say so, whether you want to carry it to the table and how much emphasis you want to put on the fact that it is going to happen, because it can give us a little hint as to which way that sort of thing is going to come out. Now I know that time is short, but I get such a desire to hear Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, if he does not at all recognise the difference between the collective bargaining unions which are in the main organizations, which have member democracy, which have infrastructure in collective agreements, which work in tripartite cooperation, which have an infrastructure that goes all the way to the jobs, and then the yellow unions. Recognizes Mr. Ole Birk Olesen not at all that there is a significant difference between the two types?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164344	The first question is how strong we will demand after a choice that this be rolled back. It's hard to say. What we stand firm on is that the tax should be lightened for people who are in work. This means that there must be a higher deduction at the bottom, and we would also like to ease tax and abolish top tax altogether. So we need some funding for that. If this can be used as part of the funding and the other parties in the majority that might lighten the tax, then we are very happy about it. If the other parties want something else, we have to accept it. The important thing for us is that the tax is relieved for people at work. The question then arises whether I do not recognise that there is a difference between yellow trade unions and red unions. Yes, I do. One of the things the red unions are doing is fine and good, but there is also something that the red unions are doing that is bad. For example: I think it is bad that they are giving a lot of subsidies to the Socialists because it does not promote the development of our society in a positive direction, because I believe that the Socialists are pursuing a wrong policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164451	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164453	The financial support or lack of it seems that many newspaper headlines have been put on, but I just have to understand, so I can conclude quite clearly that this will be one of the proposals that will be put on the table by the Liberal Alliance as a funding proposal for some of the tax cuts that you want? I think that's really interesting if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will nod to it, because then we are beyond the hypothetical discussion I had with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party earlier, where he said: if it is put on the table. Now we know with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's words that it will be placed on the table of the Liberal Alliance side. Do I understand that correctly?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164527	No, not really. We cannot say exactly what will be put on the table as a financing proposal when we are in negotiations in a possible blue majority after the next elections. All that can be said is that what will at least be put on the table is a demand from the Liberal Alliance that the tax on work at both the top and bottom of the income scale should be reduced. This may help to finance it, but it may also be that some other proposals will be put forward. The fact is that the tax cuts that we are proposing are considerably greater than this small isolated proposal will be able to provide funding for, so in any case we need to find a lot, and this will be only a small fraction of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Mikkelsen, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164619	Trade unions do an important job in Denmark. They defend the rights of employees, they have helped to develop Danish society. But that is why it is not necessary to favour the membership of certain types of trade unions financially by increasing the deduction. I think this is discriminatory and discriminatory towards all those workers who do not choose to be members of a socialist union. That is the reality. After all, it is they who choose to support the increase in the deduction, namely social democratically governed trade unions, who do so quite well in those areas where they manage the interests of employees, but where they do not just pursue politics. So we discriminate here against those workers who do not want to be members of a red union compared with those who are members of a red union. We think that the money should be used to ensure that it is always worthwhile to work, for example. increasing the employment allowance and looking at what is preventing people from giving it an extra scale and making an extra effort to enter the labour market. We have seen many examples of the fact that it is certainly not worthwhile for some to work. We have seen it as recently as last night on television on DR. So if you got the job allowance raised, we would ensure that for more people it would pay to work. We are against the proposal here. We are in favour of trade unions and we are also in favour of them having favourable, reasonable conditions, but not of favouring some employees over others just because they want to join certain trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164757	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sjúrður Skaale. Last time I got off on the wrong foot, I mentioned which party, sir. Sjúrður Skaale belongs, so we leave that to Mr Sjúrður Skaale. Sjúrður Skaale himself say up here. Then maybe I'll learn for the next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164815	I can give the President a lesson: Javnaðarflokkurin. I don't have to say much. I shall only make a few comments on the part of the proposal which concerns the calculation of benefits in 2012 at residence or employment in Greenland or in the Faroe Islands. This is a case that started a few years ago in a misunderstanding, I think. It was the case that the former government introduced the principle of profit for EU citizens. One must have lived in Denmark for 2 years to get certain benefits, but one forgot that Denmark means only Denmark, not the kingdom. For this reason, catch-ups and Greenlanders were also affected by the principle of profit, without the intention of the old government. Since then, it was amended so that as from 1 January 2013 the Faroese and Greenlanders were exempted from this principle of profit. Now you go on and make compensation for 2012. I just want to sign for the very fine way in which this matter has been handled by the government, both by going in and changing what the old government had done, and by even providing compensation. I think that's great, so thank you for that. It's a great solution to this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164948	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125164956	Thank you for your comments on the proposal. It is, of course, an incredibly short draft law, at least with regard to the increase in the ceiling on deductions for trade union quotas, which has led to a relatively long debate. I do not need to make it unnecessarily longer, but just note that I am pleased that with this bill we are carrying out in practice what the government, SF and Enhedslisten have agreed in terms of getting a good and sensible financial agreement for 2015, which prioritises health, welfare and the labour market. In relation to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's comments, of course, must be made clear that this part of the proposal has been discussed not only with Faroese politicians who are members of the Folketing but also Greenlandic. There has been a great deal of emphasis on this, and I also welcome the solution that we have found. With these comments I should like to say that I look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165111	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No, I'm sorry, I need you to hold on for a moment, because there are a few brief comments. I just missed that, I'm sorry. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165122	Thank you. I tried to ask the Socialist rapporteur, and I did not get an answer from that, so I will now try to ask the Minister. For I have closely examined the 31 pages that form the government's financial agreement with SF and Enhedslisten, and have not yet fallen over growth-enhancing initiatives, something that creates new private Danish jobs. So I just need to know how many jobs the tax minister is expecting with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165149	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165151	The very fact that giving an incentive to work is in itself a gain. I think that, on this point, we are able to give an increased deduction to a great many Danes, is a positive thing which helps to ensure that being at work can respond. I understand that is something that the author's party too is relatively concerned about, although I have also understood that it is not a proposal which the author's party wishes to promote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165223	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165226	The truth is that this proposal does not make it worthwhile to work, because it is a deduction that is given to all union members, whether they are in employment or not • while people on the labour market with small incomes who are members of a trade union and who do not hit the ceiling or who have chosen not to be a member of a trade union do not get anything out of it. So I am glad that the Minister confirms that this proposal does nothing to ensure that working is better worthwhile. Then it has been made clear, and it is quite fine, in fact, that it has now been said from the Speaker's Office of the Danish Parliament by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165300	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165302	After all, there is a lot of action in the draft budget, of which I am also quite sure that during the third reading of the draft budget you will have some good discussions. It does not change the fact that I think it is quite reasonable that we give some incentives and benefits by supporting the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165321	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165326	I would like to ask the Minister for Taxation whether the government intends to allow this ceiling for the deduction of trade union quotas to be undermined by inflation over the coming years. This is 6,000 kroner. is not inflationaryly regulated. That is an absolute figure, and I want to know if it is the government's intention that this deduction should be less and less worth as inflation takes on money.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165352	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165355	Of course, I cannot pre-discount what you choose to do in relation to future budget proposals. But, of course, I think that the rapporteur's concern is quite striking, since it was the case that the previous government did not have a limit of DKK 3 000.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165419	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165422	Well, I didn't ask the tax minister what to do in the future. I asked the tax minister about his position. Does the Minister of Taxation and thus the government consider that such a ceiling on deductions for trade union quotas over the years should be undermined by inflation, or does the government not think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165443	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165446	As the draft law stands here, it is quite right that it is a fixed amount. However, it is also clear that in the future it will be possible to regulate it in financial law agreements, and the immediate less revenue resulting from this specific proposal will be 810 million in 2015. kr. And if you include backflows and behavior, you're talking about 570 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165514	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165528	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Bertel Haarder as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165554	Thank you. The bill is a consequence of the growth package, which has the support of all parties except the Liberal Alliance. 357 million will be allocated. kr. for continuing training of skilled and unskilled workers, and the reason for this is an agreement concluded by the Government with DA and LO. Furthermore, there is the special thing about the bill that artistic and maritime education also now enters the family of education, and, if not, there is also a small link to defence education. This can only please the heart of a former Minister of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165652	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165712	Thank you. Ever since this government came into office, we have had training high on the agenda. The goal is to have the best educated generation ever. We want 95 per cent. of a youth year should take a youth education course that 60 per cent. must have a higher education and 25% higher education. must have a long higher education. With all the measures we have taken in the field of education in general, there can be no doubt that education is this government's major priority and field of action. We aim to train our workforce at a high level, but education is not a static thing, but something that you become throughout your life both formally and informally. That is why it also requires proper opportunities for further and further training, and that is one of them. The one that this bill is helping to secure. We will do three things in concrete terms: firstly, artistic and maritime education must have the same regulatory basis as universities, business academies and professional colleges in order to provide continuing training. The maritime industry in particular is developing a lot over time, which is why it is of course important both for the employees' job opportunities and for the Danish companies that we are fully involved in the upskilling in that area. At the same time, higher artistic education will have better opportunities to develop educational provision aimed at skilled workers. Secondly, the possibility for educational institutions to obtain grants for real skills assessments will be improved. This will be beneficial for many skilled workers who are given the opportunity to gain access to an education or have a shortened training based on their acquired skills. Thirdly, the draft law allows the Minister of Education and Research to derogate from the requirement that applicants for military diploma training should have at least two years' professional experience. Instead, it is expected that it will be possible to acquire the necessary competences in specific defence processes. With this draft law, we are thus creating a better link between education and training and giving even better opportunities for upgrading our skills. This is both pleasing for students who are given the opportunity to become even more skilled, and it is pleasing for those jobs that are given an even stronger and even more qualified workforce. The Socialists support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165939	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125165953	Thank you. This bill is an offshoot of the "Growth Package 2014" from before the summer holidays... an agreement that is also part of Dansk Folkeparti. The aim of the agreement is to ensure that more skilled people can obtain higher education. Better provision and dissemination of knowledge of the possibility of further adult education and further training shall be ensured. At the same time, the focus is on the flexibility of education, so that there are good opportunities to ensure coherence also with family life. It is important in the education system to ensure that you do not get stuck. Part of this bill is also about grants for real competence assessment, so that as a skilled person you can get credit for the real competences that have been achieved in the labour market but have not been officially documented. Finally, better access to higher education is being established for skilled workers in the artistic and maritime fields. It is both meaningful and forward-looking to invest in ensuring training opportunities for everyone, and this bill focusing on the opportunities for skilled workers takes care of a group where it can be difficult, and thus it is important that there are no barriers that hinder training. So the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170057	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170103	Thank you. This proposal, as previous rapporteurs have said, is the implementation of an initiative in the June growth plan to provide more and better adult and continuing education, an initiative which, of course, we on the radical side are also pleased that there is a broad majority in favour of. Adult and further education are, in fact, essential in order to ensure as many people as possible opportunities as possible over a life cycle. That is why we are also pleased that with this bill we can translate parts of that particular initiative. In concrete terms, as several rapporteurs have already explained, the proposal provides that artistic and maritime education institutions will be subject to the usual rules for higher education, vocational training and further training under the law on open education. Thus, there will be a uniform set of rules within the Ministry of Education and Research's area of responsibility, so as to improve the opportunities for artistic and maritime education to offer continuing and adult education. Similarly, the bill gives the various educational institutions here a better opportunity to offer a real assessment of competence, which in turn strengthens the ability of skilled people to make this real assessment of competence. In addition, it is possible for the Minister of Education and Research to derogate from the requirement of two years' professional experience when it comes to admission to the military diploma programme of the Defence. Against this background, it can be concluded that better conditions and greater flexibility are created in specific areas in relation to adult and continuing training. We can, of course, support this from the radical side, which is why we can support the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170311	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170319	Thank you. We from the SF are also very happy with this bill, which contains some very good elements in terms of strengthening the flexibility of our education system. What is so important is that we ensure that we can move from being skilled to getting more training if needed, and that unskilled people can also become skilled, that is to say, that everyone has better opportunities for continuing training. In the SF, it is very positive that maritime and artistic education is now also subject to the same set of rules for adult education as professional colleges, professional academies and universities. And then it doesn't matter that the defense programs are included in this order too. What is at stake here is that greater flexibility is ensured and, more importantly, that the needs of the individual and the individual are taken into account. We very much welcome this. This happens, among other things, by obtaining a real assessment of competence and therefore not training unnecessarily if you already have the skills to do so. I would just like to say that, as SFs and as a Funenbo, I am in fact very positive and hopeful just about the point concerning maritime education. There is a really great potential, including business and production, in the maritime environments, and that is something that is being invested in here. So with the bill, we can actually ensure that people who have a great deal of knowledge of a profession are also allocated the corresponding competences, by making it easier, as a skilled person, to have credit transferred to the labour market. This means in good Danish that if you can already do something, you can get it recognised and you will be able to use it in your further education and get a place in the labour market. It is a strengthening of the Danish education system. I would also like to say that this is, of course, a good example of how the education system, through good cooperation with both the Danish Employers' Association and the LO, is precisely awaiting and fulfilling the wish of the growth package of 2014, the agreement that was here, that we ensure a strong labour market with the educated group of people that is needed. So the draft law also provides for the new technical and production-oriented training to be given such flexibility that, as an adult, it is actually started upskilling and continuing training and that one can maintain one's family and working life alongside. With this part of the bill, we hope in SF that the level of education in Denmark will increase, so that more skilled and unskilled people will have better opportunities to further train or train. We agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170614	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170621	I think the previous rapporteurs have explained very well what this bill is about, so I do not have to read up the whole introduction again. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is very important that skilled people have better opportunities for further training, and in fact especially in the three areas listed here, i.e. maritime, artistic and defence training. And we think this bill will allow for that. The reason why it is so important for skilled workers to have better opportunities for further training and continuing training is that it can both help to develop our labour market, but it can also help to ensure that the individual can move on if, for example, he or she is able to do so. have experienced an occupational injury or for other reasons wishing to further train and change jobs. All in all, I can just say that we in the Enhedslist can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170721	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170735	Thank you. I am not going to spoil the good atmosphere, although I am standing here instead of our rapporteur, Mrs Merete Riisager, who was unable to be here. I would like to say that this draft law, in relation to the system we have, makes quite good sense, in other words that a number of institutions can offer on the same regulatory basis. So that's actually very good. But I will not fail to say that in the Liberal Alliance we are concerned with more general reforms, where the burdens are eased for Danes who work and for companies that create jobs. If we reduce taxes and charges, there will be more room for companies to demand and buy continuing training themselves and thus to train the workforce. But back to the proposal that we are debating today. It is then an adjustment in relation to the current system, which one can say basically does not change anything, but which may make good sense in relation to what we have. So on that basis we can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170837	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125170851	Thank you. Thanks for the support all around. After all, the draft law is a follow-up to what is called initiative 73, more and better adult and further education, in the agreement on a growth package from June 2014, which several rapporteurs have also pointed out. I am very pleased that all parties in the Folketing support this agreement and that a majority also supports the growth package and the agreement reached by the government with DA and LO on 7 May 2014 on a number of initiatives to ensure both unskilled and skilled better continuing training opportunities. Several rapporteurs have mentioned this, but the draft law includes both maritime and artistic education institutions under the general framework for continuing vocational training in what is called the Open Education Act. This means that the same rules will apply to continuing training throughout the Ministry of Education and Research. I see that as a great advantage. The ability of maritime and artistic training institutions to provide further continuing training for skilled workers is greatly improved by this proposal. By harmonising the rules on continuing vocational training in the field of higher education, we also promote the Government's objective of improving the quality of higher education and improving the link between education and training. With the bill, we improve the opportunities for educational institutions to obtain grants for individual real-skill assessment. This is one of the things that several rapporteurs also attached great importance to, namely that skilled workers should have better opportunities for real skills assessment, and therefore also the possibility of access to training or the possibility of shortening their training ■ more flexible, more meaningful. Then the Minister for Education and Research, with the bill, will also be able to derogate from the requirement for this with two years of professional experience when admission to the military diploma programme of the Defence. It also allows for more flexibility and meaning in that the Ministry of Defence can then lay down rules on admission requirements for defence military diploma training, where the requirement for professional experience can be achieved through a special qualifying course, but within the Defence. It then allows the Ministry of Defence to have its new military diploma accreditation as a formal part of the adult continuing education system. My hope is, of course, that the draft law together will help to strengthen the opportunities for further continuing training and that it will become more flexible and more meaningful. I look forward to the continued examination of the legislative proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171201	Thank you, Minister. There are no comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171218	The debate is open, and the first is Mr. Bertel Haarder, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171238	It is important that, before choosing training, we know what we are going to do, both in terms of training and in terms of what follows. It is therefore a very good initiative that it has been decided, as part of the growth package supported by all parties other than the Liberal Alliance, that comparable information on quality and relevance should now be more accessible. In other words, these are questions of unemployment, professional income, employment, hourly rates, etc. and also information on how students assess quality and how graduates assess the relevance of their education in relation to the employment opportunities they have had after the course. If it can be put into a system on ug.dk, as the Educational Guide homepage is called, and if it can become commonplace to seek information there before jumping into a study, it should be able to limit a great deal of re-election and a great deal of apostasy. In any case, the attempt must be made, and that is why we support the draft law. We also believe that it is right that applicants should be required to translate the diplomas on which they base their application. It is only right and proper that the institutions should be able to save money for translation. In this context, however, I am very pleased that the mutual Nordic commitment is fully maintained, so that there is no restriction on the opportunities for Nordic students to apply for membership in other Nordic countries, including Icelandic and Finnish students.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171502	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171508	Thank you. The government is proposing a change to the university law which will provide greater transparency and clarity for students who stand at the entrance to a course of study and have to find out what to choose. It is of course important and therefore it is also important that the Ministry of Education and Research be given the right to obtain the information about both students and graduates. So that information is going to be used to develop this new digital tool, which can produce comparable data and thus also increase transparency for future students. As the previous rapporteur has mentioned, there are also some minor changes in the draft law, both in relation to the fact that foreign staff associated with the university will be covered by State self-insurance for a shorter period of time, and in order to be able to require translation of documentation of foreign education qualifications when applying for admission to higher education. Finally, at second reading, we would like to add an amendment to take account of and meet some of those who have come into contact with the education system with a view to seeking admission to a Master's degree programme as a supplement to Bachelor's degree programme. But at the heart of the legislative proposal is that we create greater transparency in study elections. Some educational institutions, I can see in the consultation answers, have expressed concern about whether the new central tool could interfere with the work they have already done to the institutions. That is why I would like to emphasise that the comments make it a priority and made clear that the tool must be developed in close cooperation with higher education. Although students now have even better opportunities to choose their education on an informed basis, higher education still has to do their part to ensure a good match between education and students. As Social Democrats, we are proud of the free choice of study, but of course there is also responsibility with free choice. Now we take responsibility for the fact that future students have the knowledge needed to compensate for the advantages and disadvantages of a choice of study. It is important for us Social Democrats that future students have the best possible conditions for choosing the right education, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171734	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171743	The main part of this bill is about being able to collect data for a database so that all future students can have a better basis for choosing education. I do not know how much effect this will have, but it should not prevent the available information from being established on education, on student experiences of programmes and on employment figures etc. After all, it's about the law giving the Ministry the right to demand this information from educational establishments. One of the things I would have liked to have looked at in connection with the work of the committee is that we ensure that we do not build up a bureaucratic and heavy system. I need to be convinced that the system does not give educational institutions any more work. As far as possible, the system must be based on information which is already assembled and on information which the institutions can use for their own quality work in relation to institutional accreditation. I also note that the comments made in the consultations have expressed concerns about how the digital tool to be used should be designed and there are critical voices in relation to the plan described. Therefore, I would also like to have clarity about the phase of the project; the assurance that the plan contains the necessary dialogue with the educational establishments, so that we are sure that the choice of data collection and return of data takes place in a way that safeguards against unnecessary bureaucracy. But if we can be sure of that, the Danish People's Party will not stand in the way of the adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171907	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, Radical Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125171913	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we want students to choose their study based on as much information and knowledge as possible. Therefore, we are pleased that with this bill we ensure greater transparency precisely in relation to the choice of future study. Because we think it is important to know about content, teaching, future opportunities and similar conditions when a young person has to choose his education. Therefore, we are also pleased that this proposal envisages updating the information already available so that we get a much broader knowledge, so that we now also gain knowledge about the students' experience of the quality of the studies and the experience of the graduates in their job opportunities, and there will also be a better opportunity to compare programmes in a wider spectrum. The bill therefore suggests that all higher education institutions, just as previous rapporteurs have also explained, should submit relevant information on both their students and on the graduates, so that this new digital tool can be put together, which future students can then use to study different programmes and also compare these respective programmes. We think that is very good and we think that is very important. The draft law has also, as previous rapporteurs have also explained, another element, namely the element of allowing foreign visiting researchers and visiting PhD students to become part of state self-insurance, as well as the requirement that proof of foreign educational qualifications be translated when applying for admission to higher education in Denmark. There are two things that can be said to make maneuvering in an international context easier for our higher education, so we think that is a good thing. Overall, therefore, we can support the draft law and are, moreover, pleased with the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172133	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172139	When you stand as a young person, there is simply a jungle of educational opportunities, which it may be difficult after an end of primary or upper secondary education to have to choose from, that is, the direction in which you will move forward. There are a lot of ways to go for young people, so it can actually very easily become quite incalculable. The draft law we are discussing today recognises that this is a very important choice that every young person must make: what do I really want now? We would also like to point out with this bill that a digital tool cannot be left alone. So this is a tool in the range of other initiatives that should help young people to be clarified. It is the intention of the draft law that young people should be able to study and assess more easily and more easily all the many courses offered. A new digital tool should help simplify the process of assessing the training that young people may find interesting. So we think from the SF that it is a very good idea to develop such a tool, which can assess the training programmes on the basis of some different parameters. However, we shall vote in favour of the proposal with some concern. And that is the concern of the question: what are we comparing training on the basis of; what are the parameters? If it becomes purely economic calculations for the labour market, which will dominate the digital comparison system, then we find it problematic because education is of value in itself. We do not think that young people should opt out of education because they fear unemployment or the average time for candidacy. In the SF, we want young people to choose an education because there is a good academic and social study environment; because it is an education that provides in-depth knowledge in a particular field; and because education offers exciting job opportunities, especially if also the labour market, both the private and the public labour market, which is made up of NGOs, is also aware that there are skilled, qualified young people in a labour market. The parameters to compare training must be informative and they must be constructive so that young people can decide on training on a proper basis, which does not create any false perceptions of specific training or the idea that it might be superfluous in Denmark, or that the transition and the way from graduating to the labour market are too long. That is our concern and we will, of course, follow this well on the way. The bill is part of the "Growth Package 2014" which we in the SF helped to adopt. We think it is positive that the agreement focuses on our young generation and on the joint responsibility for young people with education to be stronger and for education to be raised to social responsibility. So we're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172502	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172509	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we believe it is important that we provide future students with the best guidance and the best opportunities to make their choice as to what higher education they should go on. We believe in the Enhedslisten that this bill will contribute to that very thing. At the same time, it is also clear to us that this bill does not do it alone. This bill cannot do it for good guidance, it cannot do it for study practice on youth education, but it is, after all, a step along the way. We believe in the Enhedslisten, it is very relevant for future students to know, for example. how much education they can expect to receive and how much guidance and feedback there is on the education they want to apply to. I don't think it's a secret. I hope not, because then I have at least done my job badly... that we in the Enhedslisten do not think it is relevant to look for where there is employment, that is, that it should be the labour market that controls where there are training places and what kind of education we consider to be good or bad. However, we can accept that this is included here, because we believe that this draft law creates greater transparency. This new digital tool and new system must not mean that the different ways of doing things in education are being wiped out. We also believe that it is important for it to be drawn up in such a way that there is still room for the diversity of the institutions and different ways of doing things. We believe in the Enhedslisten that a way of ensuring this is by implementing it in close dialogue with the institutions, in other words with the educational institutions concerned here, and we very much hope that this is what the Minister will be proposing when the bill is to be implemented. In fact, I would very much like to hear the Minister's comments on the answers to the hearings which have just been expressed that they would like to be included in the implementation. Then we also hope in the Enhedslisten that this new transparency will mean that the institutions will reduce their use of advertising. Unfortunately, many higher education institutions today spend money they get to do education on advertising for themselves. And hopefully this system will mean that you will stop it and instead spend the money on what you get them to do, namely education. We can support the bill in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172748	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172757	Thank you. This bill deals with more transparency, and it is, of course, a good liberal policy, so we would like to congratulate the government on it now. It's not often that happens, so we're happy when it happens, it's clear. With this bill, higher education in the Ministry of Education and Research is required to report personal data for students and graduates to the Ministry for the development of a new digital tool, which will then make it possible to seek information and compare programmes. In other words, it should be the case for a young person applying to a study that on the homepage of each study on page 1, so that no one can be in doubt, the future prospects for employment should be stated. So no one should start a study blindfolded. The information can already be found today if you are looking for it, but the relevant key figures must therefore be brought to light. Then we can see that the Ministry is planning to develop a digital tool to be used to systematize the numbers. And here we would actually like to be quite forceful in calling for such a task to be outsourced, and that is because we have a frightening history in the public sector about the development of IT systems. So you should think about every time you set something like this in motion... the tracks scare. There are now lots of systems where it is fully developed and clear, so you don't have to invent the deep plate every time. So we will keep a little eye on the fact that the government does not fall in relation to the desire to develop its own tools, but rather buys on the free liberal market. There's actually a lot of good to pick up. So in these admonishing words, we still choose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125172957	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen, rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Then it's mr. Per Stig Møller, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125173006	Since I was engaged in a meeting of Foreign Affairs Ministers before, I was not present at the debate of L 65, and so I would like to say here that we are also in favour of L 65, just as we are in favour of L 66 and I am sorry, but we cannot be in two places at once. And we do so because it is important that as a student you can orientate yourself in the large amount of education offered. It is clear that one must follow one's desire as far as possible, but one must of course also look at the possibilities in the training, so that the desire can remain bright, even when one enters the professional life. That is why transparency is a good thing. And I also think it is fair for young students to be involved in the implementation of the system, just as I think that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's thoughts on how it is implanted in a purely IT way must be written behind his ear, for many mistakes have been made in trying to invent something that one might not have had to invent. The legislative proposals therefore make it easier for education institutions to be informed, and they create a better link between training and the rules. And I also stress that with L 66 it will now be possible for foreign non-employed guest researchers and non-registered guest PhD students to obtain state self-insurance and thus also gain greater security in the time you are here. So I think that this is a good thing, and it is a follow-up to the growth package that we have been involved in, and that is why we are also involved in this which should improve study time, but also in the post-study period, which is after all the longest in a person's life.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125173146	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125173158	Thank you, and thank you for contributions and debate on this perhaps less, but, I think, important proposals. I also think that the rapporteur's contributions show that everyone is actually very committed to the fact that future students choose study on as enlightened a basis as possible, and that is what we are now trying to create with the bill, that is to say, greater transparency in the individual's educational choices, so that comparable information on quality and relevance can also positively support young people's choice of higher education. In order to qualify for this information, we want to develop the statistical information with the bill, which we already have a part of with the students' assessment of the quality of education in their own programmes and also, and I think this is very important, the assessment of the relevance of their education by the graduates in relation to the employment they are now in. The bill therefore obliges all institutions of higher education in the Ministry of Education and Research to report personal data in the form of contact information for students and graduates to the Ministry. This information will be used to collect information for the development of this new digital tool, which will make it possible to seek information and, indeed, so important to compare education across educational institutions. I might as well answer the question in my speech here: of course, the institutions will be involved both in the organisation of data collections and in their knowledge and experience of their own data collections, because they have a part of them. It will also be an obvious asset in the planning of key data collections. In addition to being involved in the development of the questionnaire, the educational institutions will also have the opportunity to purchase their own questions in addition to the centrally defined ones, so that they can also use it. It's quite practical to do it in one single round. They will also be able to get the processed data on their own students and graduates back. However, this requires, and perhaps it is an answer to the Danish People's Party's question, a permission from the Danish Data Protection Agency, which, of course, must ensure that the institutions use the data solely for statistical purposes, because that is the way to protect personal data. I take note of this in previous major public IT cases. I agree with that too. After all, this is now in comparison a smaller project. Data we actually have it's about collecting them, but of course, from those who know something very special about it, we can get help with that with how it should now be like tool, app, or whatever it is. Unfortunately, there are also many large and good IT projects that have been outsourced and yet did not go. But let us not take that discussion now. In addition to greater transparency, this draft law also creates a better framework for the international action of the institutions. I am very pleased with that. Firstly, we propose that foreign non-staff visiting researchers and non-incorporated guest PhD students can be covered by state self-insurance. This strengthens the ability of higher education institutions to recruit skilled visiting researchers precisely, so that differences in insurance coverage do not become decisive for recruitment. This has been a wish, and we can now comply with this bill. Secondly, the draft law proposes that we should be able to lay down rules for the translation of documentation of foreign educational qualifications, primarily diplomas and attached documents when applying for admission to higher education, so that it is not the educational institutions that are responsible for that task. In conclusion, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, I would just like to point out, for the sake of good order, that during the committee procedure I intend to table an amendment to this draft law. The amendment introduces a temporary two-year transitional arrangement for supplementing Bachelor's and Master's degree programmes. This amendment is being tabled because, in the context of the ongoing follow-up which has taken place in the Master's degree programme, the Ministry has become aware that a number of students have been caught up in the new scheme. This is because a number of students have not become aware in good time of the abolition of the supplement between Bachelor's and Master's degree programmes in connection with the study progress reform and with effect for students applying for admission after 1 September 2014. Therefore, I have entered into an agreement with the parties behind the University Act that students who have completed through individual subjects will be able to apply supplemental measures up to 31 August 2016 until 31 August 2016 in order to meet the admission requirements for a Master's degree programme in 2015 and 2016. In addition, students who are currently in the process of completing a supplementary course in order to meet the requirement for admission to a Master's degree programme will also be able to avail themselves of the transitional scheme. The amendment has been in consultation from 13 to 20 November. It is a matter of moving it forward quickly so that the students do not get caught up and the consultation answers are, or at least will be, sent to the committee as soon as possible. With this collection of different things I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125173837	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125173903	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Bertel Haarder, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125173919	Thank you. Eight years ago, the accelerator was stepped in Danish research. Anders Fogh Rasmussen set up a Globalization Council with the participation of researchers, businessmen and other innovators. Also from the organizational world there was representation. And there we sat for 150 hours and turned the entire research area. During my first ministerial period, when I was also Minister for Research, we had the foundation laid for the Grundforskningsfond, which was financed by the sale of the State Institute for Life Insurance. Today we can see that the fundamental research fund was a huge success. We now see the result of this series of successful initiatives. Public research goes beyond the European Barcelona objective. Our public research funding now stands at 1.11%, and private research is at 2.03%. of gross domestic product, that is to say we are researching for 3.14%. of gross domestic product. Among other things: The pharmaceutical industry, which in Denmark is incredibly expansive, unlike in the other Nordic countries, has contributed very, very strongly. When it comes to innovation, we are no more. 2 after Sweden. When it comes to the publication of scientific works, the scientific journals, we are no. 3 after Sweden and Switzerland. Of course, you can always make wishes for the future. The desire, which the Left has, is for us to become even better at translating research and development into production and employment, into new jobs to replace the old jobs. We also want Denmark to be even better able to attract EU funds, because the EU's cash register is growing and competition for these funds is, of course, a very high-quality competition, so it is a sign of quality when someone in Denmark qualifies for EU funds. Then we have the flagship in Skåne, European Spallation Source, ESS, which together with the Swedish facility MAX IV promises very good for future material research. This is something that can be compared to giant microscopes and X-rays. If this is to be the great success that it is going to have, it requires us to take advantage of the attraction that lies in the fact that you have the most modern facilities in the world and that, while working there, you can live in one of the most attractive cities in the world, namely Copenhagen. There we have had up to several consultations with the Minister on how we can ensure that it will be as attractive as possible to say yes to working in this eldorado, as the Øresund area will be for some of the world's best researchers in one of the world's most important research areas. We are in agreement with the Government's intention that certain research appropriations should be more long-term, so that we know more about where we are in terms of budgets. On the other hand, we believe that the Minister should consider the size of the project funds offered. I remember that there are many advantages to offering in large clusters, and that is what is being done in the Fund for Research. You just have to be aware that it also has a consequence, among other things. for some of the smaller companies, which might be larger and could contribute if there was not this huge volume requirement. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement and thank all the parties who have supported this expansive research policy. When it is remarkable, this is certainly not the case 30 and 40 years ago. Denmark lay at the bottom in many ways when it came to research. Now we're at the top. We stepped on the accelerator 8 years ago and it has worked, and it has also given quality. It can be documented, and that is the best argument for moving forward in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125174519	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125174524	Thank you. I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur of the Left. It was, as I understand it, in Mr. Bertel Haarder's time back in 1991 was that the bill on the Danish National Research Foundation was put forward. And we can of course look at the evaluations that are, also by the Danish National Research Foundation, that they are extremely positive. Now, of course, we are having a debate on the whole of this area, and that is why I find it only necessary to thank Bertel partly for the foresight that people had then and to say that I hope that we can be equally forward-looking today, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to acknowledge the efforts and the visions that were made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125174608	May I just say that, on the occasion of the loving tone, it goes through for once just to call the rapporteur Bertel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125174615	I can only repay that wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125174620	Then it's the next rapporteur, and that's sir. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125174647	Thank you for the floor. Yesterday I had the opportunity to visit Danfoss in South Jutland, and here I met Bettina in production. Bettina is unskilled and priceless, as her boss said. Danfoss is a good example of one of our big global companies that both research and develop and produce. They know at Danfoss that no development takes place without production, and no production in Denmark can be successful without development, and the foundation for this development takes place in an interaction between employees in production, engineers and others in the development department, management and everyone else who every day contributes to making Danfoss and other similar companies successful. After all, the success of Danfoss presupposes that we as a society are able to deliver world-class education and research. That is why I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his statement, because I think it provides both a good overview of where we are at the moment in research and innovation and, at the same time, it sets ambitious, forward-looking lines for where we are going. For we have to do this is one of the areas where there is a huge potential to make Denmark even stronger. That is also why, in the time of the government, we have given high priority to research and innovation and that we are investing massively. But what should our research and education be able to do? Yes, the latest developments and knowledge must, of course, help to solve the challenges we face as a society. As Social Democrats, we have fought for generations to develop our welfare society for the benefit of all, regardless of the size of the purse, and research and innovation contribute year by year to the development we are going through, both in our public sector and in our private sector. The investment in research is therefore an investment in the continued development of our common welfare society. At the same time, innovation in our companies leads to new production methods, products and business practices, which means that not only do we manage in global competition, but that we can also be the leader, which means that we create growth and jobs. However, research and innovation must not only address the challenges we face here and now, but must also work at a more abstract level. In our free research, both the identification of problems that we did not know and solutions are being created to challenges that we had not imagined. And with the very positive evaluations we have just received from both the Free Research Council and the Foundation, we can say that there is much to be proud of. A top-professional piece of work is being delivered by our researchers. Now some will ask: Isn't everything in its finest order? And no, of course it isn't. Of course, there are places where we can improve, and our common goal must of course be to continue to improve every day. For example, we must ensure that our education is of the highest quality. It must be a continuous focus. Our research-based programmes form the basis for achieving our research policy objectives. We are doing a good job, but we can improve and I think we need to take action in various areas. We must ensure that our research-based programmes receive the best students, employees and researchers who are both able to take up the latest knowledge and translate it into value for the benefit of the whole of society. And we must have even better coherence between our education and our labour market, both for students and for researchers. The labour market must be thought into our education and our researchers and teachers must develop their careers in a mix between educational institutions and the labour market. However, it is not only in our research-based university educations that we must aim high. I also believe that we must ensure that our professional colleges provide training which is based more on research and where it is easier to recruit external teachers. Many of our skilled employees in the public sector are trained at professional high schools, and it is a natural part of the development of our public sector that we also focus here on raising good professional education for our school teachers, nurses, educators, social workers, etc. to the benefit both of students and of all citizens who experience competent staff in their meeting with day care institutions, schools, hospitals and other areas of our welfare community. As you know, there is also huge potential for our business community. When it comes to the innovation power of the research system, Denmark is clearly at the international top. We should be happy about that. But here too it must not become a sleeping pillow, because there is still a significant innovation deficit in large parts of the Danish economy. We know that the average productivity of an employee is as much as 15%. higher in companies which are active in research and development than in those which do not research. As they said at Danfoss yesterday, they have a productivity increase of about 10%. per year, which is very nicely above the level compared to the rest of the private sector. When we have a backlog in innovation in our business community, it can be felt. Denmark's productivity growth has for a period been lower than in the countries that create more value per year. hours of work, and the consequences are unmistakable. This means relatively lower employment, lower real wages and lower socio-economic growth, and that is why we must work hard to tackle the innovation gap. But you can only change if you look at the cause. So why is the innovation in the Danish business world a little heavy? Yes, one of the reasons is that good research-based innovation is not being sufficiently transformed into products and processes and, to put it bluntly, research does not belong to business turnover or bottom line, but we have to change that. All the knowledge that comes into the world in universities and that we share in funding must grow much more, including in business. That is why we must continue to develop the government's innovation strategy from 2012 so that the many good and innovative ideas do not settle behind closed doors, but come out in reality and maybe completely up to flying not only in our large and research-heavy companies, which contribute invaluable leadership in research, but also in our many small and medium-sized companies. They are lagging behind in the dance at the moment, and a development of innovation power can be a way to get them further on the floor as well. We're gonna have to bring everyone along, and I think that's something I can do. Keep in mind that a large company is in fact a small company that has just grown very large. In this respect, I have high expectations of the Innovation Fund, which has a major task ahead of it in strengthening the bridge between our research and innovation and our small and medium-sized enterprises. But it is not just in the business world that we must bring everyone with us. In the field of research and education, we must also have all talents in play regardless of gender, ethnicity and social background. It requires several elements. One of them is to look at how we create a better match between students and educational institutions. The time has come for us to develop together a system in which we not only look at the average character but build on top with a broad palette of tools. Experience shows that it ensures a better match between the students and the programmes and gives all talents a chance to get into play for a higher education. We have much to be proud of in Danish research and innovation. The Minister's statement clearly shows this. Nevertheless, I have chosen to focus on some of the buttons that we can still turn on to pull our research and innovation into an even higher class, because despite the good results, we must not sit back. We have a very good starting point to work from, we have skilled employees like Bettina at skilled companies like Danfoss, we have strong educations, and we have world-class researchers. I look forward to working with students and educational institutions, companies, the public sector, my colleagues in here and all other stakeholders and to seize the new opportunities and support our Danish forces and, not least, continue to develop Denmark into a pioneering country in research and innovation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175513	There is a question from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175517	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I have one question which concerns the professional high schools, because the Socialist rapporteur mentioned that professional colleges should have better opportunities to research and improve opportunities for all sorts of other things. I can agree with that, and therefore I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Socialists agree that an evaluation of the law on higher education should be carried out, which was made in 2007, and which has not actually been evaluated since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175549	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175551	We can discuss that. I don't think I'm gonna stand here and say yes or no to it. What I said was that I think the training we have at professional colleges should be based more on research. Many good collaborations are already under way, both between professional colleges and with research based on universities. Whether or not we should make an evaluation, I think we should rely on a slightly longer conversation, but I am happy to take part in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175617	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175622	I fully agree with the rapporteur, who has made a very serious proposal. But what prompts me to ask is this talk about professional training and their association with research. Here we have a huge problem when it comes to educational research, which is largely based on what was previously called Denmark's Pedagogical University, which has now become part of Aarhus University and which is perhaps in some ways excellent, but which the Danish primary school does not enjoy very much, if any. And that is because, unfortunately, DPU is withdrawing skilled teachers from primary school and upgrading them without returning. That is why I just wanted to call on the rapporteur to pay attention to the problem which I think we should tackle together. Then I'll look over at the minister who nods. Maybe we could work together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175726	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175728	I fully share the concern that we take some of the best and train them out of their profession. That is also why I stress that I believe they should be more based on research. We simply need to look at how to raise a good teacher education and make it even better in line with the other training courses in the professional colleges.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175746	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125175759	The statement we have here today has emerged from the agreement on the Innovation Fund, and this is a very good opportunity to reflect on where we stand in Denmark today. Evaluations of the Danish research area have pointed to what has been called the Danish miracle, namely that Danish research in recent years has developed tremendously positively and today is actually very strong. There is no clear indication of why, but precisely because it is not clear why things are going so well, we must be careful to change too much. In connection with the establishment of the Innovation Fund, we put together a number of research funds and thereby simplified the system in a way that I believe is right. Since then, we have received an evaluation of the Fundamental Research Fund, which clearly recommends that we leave the construction as it is. The evaluation of the Free Research Council also points out that we should not fundamentally change the design. I think that is right; I am certainly not the one who can point to significant structural changes at the end of the research fund structure, i.e. if basic research is taken at one end and strategically production-specific research in the other. On the other hand, there is a clear need for me to look at the structure at the other end, where the development and demonstration programmes almost fall over each other. This is clearly illustrated in Figure 1. The Danish People's Party would have liked the UDPs to have been brought together under the Innovation Fund, but it was not a conceivable idea when we worked with it. Then I think that the next step must be a discussion of the structure of the UDPs. I know that it can be politically quite difficult ^ they are in different ministries but the need is there, and if it cannot be done under this government, we have to carry it on to the next one. If we want Denmark outside Christiansborg to be innovative, we also have to try to be it ourselves once in a while. We need every talent in the game, it says. Yes, of course we do. We need the best from abroad. Yes, of course we do. There is only one thing to say about this: in the face of developments that we are seeing right now with EU citizens coming as migrant workers and, it seems, increasingly becoming systematized, we need to intervene so that we can still afford and study places for our own skilled young people, first and foremost, and then the most skilled from abroad. I am well aware that in the SU conciliation we have set an amount limit for SU for EU workers. The limit has not yet been exceeded, but I hope that the government will take preventive action against the marked increase before we find ourselves in a situation where the amount has been exceeded and we are actually going to set up the SU for all those who receive the SU. I also need to touch on the YDUN programme. It has a whole section in the statement. It says that the program is there to inspire women to choose a research career. It is quite excellent to encourage and inspire women to go the research path, and there are a lot of tools that can be used, but exactly what is being used in the YDUN programme is a problem because a research programme that prioritises women cannot at the same time claim to have as its main aim to pursue the highest research • when, on top of that, we know that if women just seek research funds, they get them as often as men do. The exercise should then go on to motivate the most talented women to seek and not to secure them funds when they apply for it because they do not need it. Then it is in relation to the funding of the Fund to say that it has an acute problem. The government will solve this in the forthcoming Finance Act by adding 3 million. kr. in the fund, no, 3 billion. kr.; 3 million kr. is not so much, 3 billion. kr. is better. I think we all agree that it is right and necessary to find funds for the Fund for Research. The 3 billion. kr. provide the State with a loan which will be repaid from the funds in the research reserve in the future. You could say that the research dog is fed with its own tail. I said earlier that funds could be set up for research by allowing universities to take over their own buildings and then including the proceeds from this in a pool for research. Nearly two years ago, the University of Copenhagen asked for ownership, without being able to get an answer. It's quite obscene. But at the heart of it is that the KU has asked for the right of other universities to do so, and they are, of course, now waiting for the course around the KU. The KU alone will be expected to generate revenue of 6-7 billion. kr., and if you bring the other universities, we'll have over 10 billion. kr., which really used probably could give a quite nice move to the research. The price for the state would be to give up university rent, while at the same time not having to pay for maintenance. It's a price that should be affordable. In conclusion, we need to look with care at major structural adjustments in the structure of the research fund, but of course we need to address where we can create simplifications and ensure a more coherent fund structure. Everywhere we need to focus on ensuring that the created knowledge and awareness come out of the research institutions, come out and create growth in companies. There is much talk in time about the need to focus on technical research. For me, there is a significant potential in focusing on research, which breaks with the traditional pillars and goes across professional boundaries. How do we create a thinking that makes that, for example. technical research becomes a natural component of all other research, so that the path from health research or social research to technical research becomes a natural part of thinking? It could, for example, be done. In the field of health research, we are combining and integrating health research into how we, as a society, deal with ageing society, with social research and with technical research. Why don't we think together? How could we fundamentally change our thinking about research so that we can think more fully? How can this approach be implemented in the training courses and at the research institutions? We must work to ensure that there is a longer perspective in appropriations so that we support the possibility that there may be room for continuity in appropriations, which means that there will also be room for the more risky research • the research which enters the thin ice and which sometimes goes to the bottom, but which is also the research which would be able to find the completely new research lands that are necessary in the long term for Danish research to keep its position.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180456	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few questions. The first question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180501	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I have a question about this with female scientists. I was able to understand from the speech by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and also in previous debates at the Danish People's Party that you are not enthusiastic about the YDUN programme. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether the Danish People's Party considers it a problem at all that there are many more male than female researchers.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180534	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180536	I think it would be gratifying if there could be many more female scientists. When I and the Danish People's Party have a problem with YDUN, we believe that when you make research programmes and allocate funds to research, they should clearly go to the excellent research and that this is what should be the only determining factor for who gets the funds. Then I understand that it is a question of how to encourage women to apply. After all, we know from the studies that if women researchers simply seek, they will get the same amount of money as men, so it is not the qualifications that are lacking, but the desire to seek. And I would therefore like to call on the research institutions and everywhere else, of course, to work to encourage the talented women to seek the pools that are now to be sought, and then I am quite sure that they will be given the same funding as men and that they will also be given the same posts as men if they seek them. And excuse me, but I do not think we need special programmes to help women forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180635	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180637	Thank you. I am really glad that we agree that it would be nice if there were some more female researchers. So I just have to be sure that I have understood it quite correctly, namely that the Danish People's Party believes that the way we solve this • we can call it the problem of equality • is by motivating women researchers in one way or another. I would like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to be a little more specific: if it is not to be the YDUN programme to motivate, what should it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180708	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180709	Now we have listened to the Free Research Council earlier today, and there we could understand that the result is that over 500 women applied for funding from the YDUN programme. Many of those who did not receive funds from YDUN have subsequently sought the regular pools. The discussion is then also about the fact that it is possible to say that the leaders who are in the universities and the leaders of the different research areas, just as managers everywhere else must of course help to support and develop the employees you have. This means that young women researchers must, of course, be encouraged to seek. All I am saying is that they should not just have money and funds for research; they should have them because they are skilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180755	Thank you. And the next question is Mr. Jeppe Bruus, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180801	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and thank you to the Danish People's Party for a good and constructive cooperation. It is a pleasure to be rapporteur in an area where there is a broad consensus on how we are moving forward. Of course, there may be disagreements, and one of the disagreements is that the rapporteur himself speaks of foreign students, and an amount of 350 million is mentioned. kr., which is the framework we have for SU, and it should be seen as part of the total SU grant of about 19 billion. kr. One of the solutions put forward by the rapporteur in the past is that we should roll back some things at our universities and other higher education, so that we do not teach in English as much as we do. This whole vision debate is about how we develop our research and innovation, and it is also about how we embrace more internationalisation, which is the whole prerequisite for developing our innovation power and our research. So my question is just simple: Does the Danish People's Party think that we should embrace the internationalisation, or does the Danish People's Party think that we should roll it back?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180906	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125180909	It's not about hugging or rolling back. It is about saying that when we do education in Denmark, we do it first and foremost for the young Danish students. We do not do it so that as a young person around Europe you can look around and say: you can go to Denmark and there you can get a paid education and SU. After all, we need to spend our money on the Danish students and spend our resources to ensure that we have good education in Denmark. We must not set up training programmes simply for example. Romanians must be able to come up here and take an education. It is reported that from Romania you have agents who even look around and look at where you can send the young people and get a free education at the expense of Danish young people. That's not the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181007	Thank you. Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181009	Thank you. Well, if anyone's trying to exploit the system or cheat, then of course we have to look at it. That's not what I'm asking. I ask whether the Danish People's Party believes that we should have less English education in our higher education programmes to ensure that fewer people come here and study relevant education in Denmark and help both to raise our level of education and, as such, also our labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181034	But in the Danish People's Party we believe that we should have the language of education that is relevant in the labour market that follows. This is also one of the agreements in the field of education, in other words, that is the way in which education should be accredited. We should not do English courses for the sake of being able to come teams from abroad and take their education here. If we are to have a complete education in English, it must be about having a concrete labour market for Danish jobs where it is a need. At educational establishments, education has begun to be established, where it is said that this should be done entirely in English, and at some point we have even heard the Minister of Education say that we should have English as a group language in our educational establishments. Well, why would we do that? It must be that education in Denmark as a starting point takes place in Danish. If we have Danish students and Danish teachers and the language must be English, then we lose a great deal of quality in the education of the Danish young people to be educated in English. That is not what we want. We want the highest possible quality for Danish young people who receive an education in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181136	Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181139	Thank you. I just stumbled a little over the rapporteur's comment on the YDUN programme that women researchers should not have research funding because they are women, but because they are skilled. I fully agree with that, and I do not think anyone disagrees with it. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether he believes that this is the case with the YDUN programme, i.e. whether the rapporteur believes that there are women who receive research funding through the YDUN programme because they are women and not because they are skilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181208	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181210	Fortunately, I believe quite specifically in the YDUN programme that the tiny percentage that has been given there, because there are very, very many who sought, are really qualified, and I also believe that the same women would have obtained if they had searched in the ordinary pools. But I am just wondering why people are actually insisting on creating a pool that is aimed at women, where they define that women have priority to get this. That's what I don't understand. I think that when we distribute research funds, there should be no gender involved in whether you get the money or not. Then it has to be about the best researcher who gets the money, and then it has to end there.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181249	Thank you. Mrs. Liv Holm Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181252	It is also very good, and I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that the best researchers must, of course, have the means. In fact, the YDUN programme is not a favouritism of women because of gender, but it is precisely to ensure that all talents come into play because right now there is a distortion. I would then like to hear from the rapporteur whether he was not present at the same meeting that I was present at just now, when the Free Research Council just told us about YDUN and said that there had been no compromise on quality here and whether it is not really enough that it is not just a question of women having research funds, but that skilled researchers should have research funds and that all talents should be in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181335	It is true that the talented researchers need research funding, which is why I am still surprised to see a programme that defines that if you have two researchers and one is a woman and the other is a man and you cannot, as a starting point, define who is the best, it is the gender that decides it. Then you go in and you say that this gives women a priority. There is the whole purpose of the YDUN programme, otherwise I have at least misunderstood it. So you also have an exception to equality precisely in order to make this distinction when allocating funds. That is why I insist that this is the wrong way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181414	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liv Holm Andersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181427	Thank you. There is a great deal to say about the research and innovation situation in Denmark. This is clearly evident from the presentations by the rapporteurs and the debate here. And I shall begin by signing the statement to the Minister. Thanks for that, that was interesting reading. In the Radical Left, we believe that we have a very good basis for both research and innovation, and we also believe that, despite minor disagreements here in the debate in general, there is broad political agreement on this, and there is also agreement among the Danes on this, which strongly supports the fact that we are spending a great deal of money on research and innovation. This is good because research means a lot to Danish growth, means a lot to Danish jobs, means a lot to Danish welfare and the development of Danish welfare. It also means a lot to Denmark's ability to cope with global competition. So we need a world-class research system, and fortunately so do we. This is, of course, due to our great commitment in this area, which has also been historically high in these years with a little more economical narrows under the SR government. We use over 1%. In this respect, this amounts to more than 20 billion GDP. kr. In addition to the resources, of course, this is also due to all the talents we have; the talents that come here; good cooperation between research and training institutions, the research system and the business community; and cooperation between researchers and various other social actors. But of course, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, there are plenty of things that we can also improve in Denmark in this area. Although this is going the right way, as a recent evaluation points out, cooperation between educational institutions and industry can, of course, improve. Several people up here, and I would also like to do so, have pointed to more internationalisation and cooperation between countries in this area, more social partnerships, better repatriation of EU funds, greater interdisciplinaryism, greater accessibility for research, etc. These are also objectives which, at least for some of the things, have largely been some of the components behind the idea of creating the Danish Innovation Fund in order to have a research system which, so to speak, can extend its branches even further in many different areas. It is also a work that we, on the part of the radicals, are anxious to follow in the future. I think it looks really promising. In addition, we also welcome other initiatives that have been taken in the field of research, such as the Minister's new initiative for voluntary guidelines in terms of creating better and greater research integrity, as this is obviously very important for this area. Finally, I would like to address a recurring disagreement, and it is actually not YDUN, because we have just been around, but it is the Free Research Council. In the Radical Left, it is our view that this council should be maintained in its present form, both because free research is simply so valuable and so essential for our researchers to be allowed to test new ones and so that we can develop and create synergies in the field of research and get research breakthroughs, but also because the council has actually just received very good evaluations. Of course, there are also things that the Free Research Council can improve on, as the evaluation shows. Now we have had the opportunity to talk to the Free Research Council at our committee meeting today, and among other things. I think that thinking in a more interdisciplinary way is something that you can feel about them every time you meet with them and thus today, so that they are quite obscene to it. So I think that is also positive. So, at the end of the day, I would just like to repeat from my introduction that we, on the radical side, think that we are on a good footing: a world-class research system with a lot to offer; with high investment in research and innovation; with broad political and popular support for what we stand on; and then it is also to move forward in this area. There are, of course, many areas that we can look towards, as I mentioned in my speech, but in general this is very positive. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181929	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125181942	In SF we agree with the Minister that Denmark must maintain its good international position in relation to research and innovative thinking. In particular, we would very much like to see Denmark as a pioneering country in application-oriented research in the field of public tasks, and we would very much like to do so so so that we can strengthen the quality and efficient use of resources in the public sector. It is, for example. in day care, in schools, health, health care, social work, etc. We think it is important that public tasks in the fields of health, education and social affairs should be based on the latest knowledge. In this way, we guarantee that the specific tasks are carried out in the most effective way possible. It makes very good sense for us to have more resources for business academies, professional colleges which work directly with application-oriented research and development, so that these institutions can actually contribute to researching precisely in the areas in which they are specialised. Strategic research can help find smart solutions to the challenges we face as a society. However, it is not only in the public sector that we in the SF want more relevant application-oriented research. In SF we also prioritise more research in the field of environment and climate. Water technology is an important area to target research so that together we can ensure clean drinking water, wastewater treatment and reduce emissions of climate gases in the water sector. The environment is exposed to negative influences both close and distant, which requires us as a local community and also as a world society to act actively to change our current way of dealing with nature. So in the SF we would very much like the state to invest in research in the areas where we encounter most challenges. However, it is equally important for the overall level of research in Denmark that the private research environments make the political and economic framework capable of carrying out free research. In fact, pioneering research results have often been seen when there has been no established framework, and therefore both the private and the public research environments must have the prerequisites to be able to carry out important tasks for Denmark's position in innovation and research. A high level of research in Denmark, which enables us to compete worldwide with the big players, requires that the responsibility for research be shared between politicians in Parliament, the public and private knowledge institutions and private companies. Maintaining Denmark's good innovative skills is a social responsibility. Thank you for having the discussion here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125182253	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, as the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125182316	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for the statement. Denmark is both a knowledge society and a production society, and this must continue to be the case. If this is to continue to be the case, it requires political priority to be given to the existence of a good framework for innovation, which can, of course, create new jobs, new knowledge and new production methods. We have, among other things. through the creation of the Innovation Fund, and with that fund we have ensured a common entry point for particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, and in the Enhedslisten we believe that the very construction we have created with the Innovation Fund creates the framework that is needed. It is also important for me to stress that in the Enhedslisten we see innovation as something that is also happening on the floor, popularly said, in companies. I mean, it's not just something that's going on at a research or management level, but it's really something that's going on on the floor. And it is important for us that in the long term we can develop some methods and ways that make it easy for employees to get over the ramp with their innovation projects. Unlike so many of my colleagues who have been up here, I do not really want to say anything about growth. I would like to say a little about almost the opposite or not growth. I think it is crucial that the innovation that is being developed in Denmark is based on how we can have a good production without destroying our planet, that is, without just growing out there and thus polluting very much and destroying entire ecosystems. This is one of the innovations that we believe very much in in Enhedslisten. It is important for me to say that ideas are not something we can just order in here at Christiansborg, although I have just been saying that I think it is important to take account of our environment and climate. It's not something we can just order in here at Christiansborg. Ideas are something that occurs everywhere, and they arise to such an extent in the research environments. That is why we in the Enhedslisten are very happy, and several people have also mentioned that we have found in the Finance Act a large grant for the Grundforskningsfond, and that we have also found money for the Free Research Council to retain and retain their funding. For the Foundation and the Free Research Council are precisely those that allow for ideas and research to flourish and become a reality. It is very important that it is not only the research that we can see the results of tomorrow or the day after or in a year's time that can be developed and that can become part of major projects, but that it is also the research that is based on something much longer in the future. And there must also be room for research to go wrong, i.e. room to meet a closed door, I was just saying that you cannot move forward with your research projects because you cannot create the results that need to be achieved. That, of course, leaves room for the Foundation. For us in the Enhedslisten it is very important that there is free research, and with free research I mean research that is not politically commissioned, research that is not commissioned and paid for by the business community, because knowledge is power, as we know. That is why it is so important that there can be no doubt about the research results in the research we do in Denmark and about who has ordered them. That is why we believe in the Enhedslisten that the Free Research Council plays a very important role in our research structure, and we believe that the Free Research Council should receive multiannual funding because it would provide security in their economy and security about the research that comes from the Free Research Council. We are surprised that so many other parts of our research system and, as such, the university world have multiannual funding, but that the Free Research Council does not have and that this is something that we end up negotiating within the research reserve year after year. We do not think this creates the best conditions for free research. Then it can be mentioned, and several rapporteurs have mentioned it, that research is going well in Denmark and that we are up on the beat, that is to say that we are at the top. I agree with that. However, I do not agree that things are going as well as we would like, because we are lagging behind in terms of equality in research. We have discussed it a little today, but I would just like to mention a figure here. If you measure the proportion of female professors, Denmark is in a 17th place. So it's not top. On the other hand, in Denmark there are almost as many men as women who choose to write doctoral thesis. This shows that women do not get the last piece up the ladder or out the ramp, or what kind of wording we are going to use now. It can be either because of the networks and culture in the academic world, or because women lack female role models and mentors who can put them in the right direction. I do not believe that equality comes from the fact that we are just calling for it to come. I do not think it comes from doing nothing, and that is why we in the Enhedslist are very pleased that in a broad agreement last year we agreed on the YDUN programme. I also believe that equality does not come from individual programmes; I think there is more to it. There I would really like to discuss at some point in this circle what more we could do to ensure equality in the world of research. We have some different ideas in the Enhedslisten. It could be that a forum for dialogue could be set up among the Research Councils, which could advise the Minister and us parliamentary politicians on how to secure more female researchers. They are far ahead of the area in Norway, and I think we could look that way with advantage. At the same time, I think it is obvious that, when we have this debate on research and innovation, we are launching a debate on the role of professional colleges in this. On the one hand, we expect professional colleges to cooperate with universities, but on the other hand we do not expect the same from universities. This creates an imbalance which I think we need to discuss in order to achieve the best possible research environments and knowledge centres. I am very concerned about more practical research, but I do not think that professional colleges should become small universities. I also do not think that the education of the professional high schools should be like university educations. I think they should be practical as they are today. But I think it would be very relevant now to discuss what role the professional high schools should play in all of this. They were given new legislation in 2007, and that legislation has not been moved since. In fact, it has not even been evaluated. I think that should be done so that we can have a proper debate on what the role of professional colleges is in this. Right now they are kind of a place in between: we expect them both to provide some knowledge, but they do not have the possibility of research, and we expect them to cooperate with universities, but we do not have the same expectations for universities. So I think it would be obvious that we started a review of that legislation. In conclusion, in the view of Enhedslisten, it is the case, both for innovation and for research, that there must be freedom for those who work with it and that it is our job as politicians to ensure the best possible framework for it. It is just like the guide that I hope we can work forward from here in the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125183124	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125183132	Thank you. It is, of course, a statement by the Minister that we are discussing here today, and there is, in that sense, reason to thank the Minister for a statement in this area. After all, it is one of the pillars of a society like ours that is rich in wealth and spirit, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance want to strengthen research in general and free research in particular. And we think so, among other things. (ii) to ensure that basic funds for free university research are increased over the next few years. We are spending a lot of money in the public sector, perhaps even in our optics we could find some that have been badly spent, so we could actually quite simply use some of the resources better by putting them into research. The Liberal Alliance has negotiated with the government several times about the research funds, and for us it has been important that the entities that allocate funds, such as the Innovation Fund, are as independent and professional and transparent as possible. We do not want the funds simply to be given to items that are fashionable or to the soldiers of Thundershield, which can easily happen in a country as small as Denmark, where everyone in those environments knows each other. That is why we have also paid particular attention to the procedures and tried to get an international dimension into the assessment of projects. We must choose the best and most promising projects every time it serves us the best. In general, we think that there has been a positive spirit in the negotiations on research; all parties have been aware of the importance of this. And this is where I would like to agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there has been a single stone in the shoe when, across the parties, it was decided to allocate funds to women researchers directly through the YDUN pool. We are opposed to giving one sex advantages over the other. For example, if you want to attract more women talents at each university, you can do so by examining why they are not looking for the positions you hope they are looking for. So we do not believe that the solution is to create discrimination, as we believe it has been done. As I said, we want to think long-term in terms of research in Denmark so that we do not jump from tue to tue. It is important that the environments where good research can grow can be planned and, at the same time, it is important that we create as favourable conditions as possible so that we can work internationally and that public research money can play along with private funds. So it is actually a rather big day today, because I would like to agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in some of her speeches. Yes, it doesn't happen every day, I can promise, but today I agree with her in the part of what went on to say that it is actually important that the research on which we sacrifice so much resources and effort is aimed and can be put into practice, that is to say that ultimately, and that is what one should aim for, is that it actually creates more jobs in Denmark and thus the basis for creating more prosperity; so that it does not become research for the sake of research, or fine, airy projects that need to be measured on other parameters, but that one really has an eye for it to reach the people who are on the floor and that this is the way in which we are developing it. So we agree entirely with that part, perhaps from one side of the House to the other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125183503	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Stig Møller, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125183520	It is quite a familiar banality that Denmark's raw material is the Danes' brains. Therefore, the best possible education from primary school to the highest university educations is crucial for our future, to which of course is the best possible research education. We need to do more and more research and innovation. For that is what all other countries are trying to do. It's not just something we invented. If our welfare societies are to survive in the competition of the future, then it is no use importing all the ideas and solutions of the others without exporting ourselves. It is therefore important that both public and private research and development are carried out within the framework of the enterprise. It is therefore essential that companies have the best possible framework conditions and have a profit that allows them to invest in research and innovation. So research and innovation do not pay off from day one. Businesses need to have fat on their bodies, so to speak, in order to stand the distance. They know that, and they do something about it. That's what the numbers show. As Mr. Bertel Haarder mentioned in his speech, and we can repeat this here: From 1997 to 2014, private investment has increased from 1.18 per cent. of GDP to 2.03%, while government investment has risen from 0.75% to 0.75%. to 1.11%. This is also reflected in the number of researchers employed in the private and public sectors. It is not the case that researchers are primarily employed in the public sector. No, there are 25,000 researchers in the private sector, while there are just under 16,000 in the public sector. This all means that Denmark today spends more than 3%. of our GDP for research, development and innovation against just under 2%. 1997. I also remember Mr. Bertel Haarder, how difficult it was at the beginning to increase research budgets. In fact, I started in here 30 years ago to be a research rapporteur, and then it was a battle at all to get up above 1%. We are in the process of developing the right direction, which the government of the VK has set in motion and which is being continued by the current government. The fact that Denmark can stand internationally shows our researchers' high international position on all parameters. We have just seen a historical example of how good Danish research is when European space research landed a vessel on a comet with crucial equipment from the Danish company Terma. It worked, whereas the German harpoons failed. This distinguished space research performance shows that Danish companies are developing and creating solutions in the most difficult areas. It also shows that basic research is the mother of all research. Without it, there will be no advanced new research. That is why we can ask the question, if not the 430 million. DKr, which is earmarked for basic research, is a little modest when the total public research budget is 21 billion. kr. The Danmarks Grundforskningsfond, which we have spoken so beautifully about today, has been evaluated to be a great success, which is why we have jointly allocated 3 billion. kr., so that the foundation can continue to 2036. But it is a long bucket of years it must be distributed over, and that is why I would like to see something more allocated, because without strong basic research there will be no advanced research. Danish exports come from our companies, and their gains are largely in the innovation and invention. It is clear that our large companies have the widest shoulders. Over 70%. private investment is made by those to whom the pharmaceutical industry weighs the most. Small and medium-sized enterprises therefore account for 30%. In this context, it is important that the Commission and the Member States take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community's research and development activities are carried out in such a way as to ensure that the Community's research and development activities in the field of research and development are carried out more effectively. The new ideas and products do not necessarily come from the largest. I think the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned this. For example, where were you? Terma, before Terma became Terma? We are prepared to look at this in the context of the evaluation of the effectiveness of technology transfer, commercialisation and knowledge cooperation between industry and the knowledge institutions, and we are also prepared to discuss constructively the evaluation of the Free Research Council. If Denmark is going to succeed in the future, then this area is crucial. That is why we cannot be quite as happy as the government. I am sorry, but we cannot be quite as happy as the government that Denmark is in a tenth position among OECD countries as regards the share of innovative companies in Danish business. If the objective is, as the Minister writes in the statement, and as we agree, that we should be among the best at creating, understanding and translating new knowledge, then we need to be higher than a tenth place in the OECD index. When we talk about creating, understanding and translating new knowledge, we should remember that humanities and humanistic research are indeed the prerequisites for understanding. Understanding the past and defining the future are humanistic disciplines. Where do we come from, what have we gotten into, where do we go, or where do we want to go, and now we get the soul too? These are humanistic questions. The technology provides technical answers to this, but the values on which we build our society and choose from come from the humanities. There is a tendency to overlook this, as we have seen in the Minister's so-called dimensioning plan. By the way, dimensioning is a new word that Orwell would have loved. That means a cut. In particular, the Minister will allow the humanities and areas to be affected, but that is not the subject of the day, so we are taking another good time in this debate. This time it is about strengthening Danish research and innovation, which we wholeheartedly endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125184054	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125184105	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. This statement, which we are debating, paints such a comprehensive picture of the field of research and innovation. As previous rapporteurs have also emphasised, it is a consequence of the agreement on the Danish Innovation Fund, which was concluded in autumn 2013. The agreement on the Danish Innovation Fund, as has also been presented by several rapporteurs, is based on a very broad political consensus, and I would also like to follow up with praise to the previous government in order to prioritize significant funds from the Globalisation Fund • Globalisation funds for Danish research. There is no doubt that it gave a boost, which has after all been followed up and held on, even in some times that have since become much, much harder. The agreement, the understanding, the support that we broadly politically have, I am very pleased to support precisely that focus on the investment in research and innovation policy, which is quite generally and broadly characterised by broad conciliation. I believe that this broad political consensus, which we have also expressed here, and even though the debate has sometimes moved out of a few minor ways, does not in fact seem to me to be the reason for wanting to make it more controversial. It is my clear view that here we really do share a sincere desire for priority to be given to Danish research and innovation. It is important; it also gives Danish researchers the necessary tranquillity, which is needed in order for them to focus precisely on the most important thing, namely to carry out research and development at the very highest level. This is beneficial to research, and it is of particular benefit to Denmark. And the attitude and broad support that we are expressing here today are also shared by the people. Nine out of ten Danes actually believe that research and new technology are crucial when it comes to solving the challenges of the future in Denmark. At the same time, three-quarters of Danes believe that research is crucial or important in creating economic growth in Denmark. After all, the fact that there is such broad support from the public is essential if we are to be able to give priority, as we do, to increase public investment in research year after year. In this way, we have succeeded in developing and building a world-class research system that is also characterised by what several rapporteurs have said: the good balance between free and strategic research, between basic funds, 1-year funds, 3-year basic appropriations that provide stability, and the 10-year appropriations of the Danish National Research Fund, which are also so recognised. I do not want to go into the details of the report itself, but as it appears, and as several have also mentioned, Danish research and innovation generally go well; it is a Danish strength position. We do well in international comparisons, Danish researchers are very productive. Denmark is in the top three if you look at the number of publications in relation to population. At the same time Danish researchers are among the most quoted; we are no. 3 in relation to quotes per year publication, which is one of the international objectives of researchers. We are also doing well in the area of innovation. Denmark is no. 2 after Sweden on the EU Innovation Union Scoreboard, as it is called, it is such an inventory that compares the innovation capacity of the EU countries this year, in 2014. After all, these are the results that we have achieved only as a result of the determined and sustained efforts of successive governments. In 1997 the public sector invested it was perhaps a former rapporteur also mentioned the equivalent of 0.75%. of GDP in research and innovation, and this year it is 1.11%. of GDP, which we are investing. So it's over 21 billion. DKK, which the public sector invests in research and development in 2014. One thing, of course, is public investment, which several people have also mentioned, but the success has been borne by the many, many talented people who work in research and development, both in public research and training establishments and in companies. Our government's research and innovation policy is based on the fact that all the people, all the different actors in the field, take responsibility and implement the policy. As the report shows, the research and innovation policy is very wide-ranging. It is about creating the best conditions, the best framework, for research, development and innovation in Denmark. There are four main objectives that I would like to outline in relation to our research and innovation policy. Firstly, we want to build and maintain a very strong research foundation. This is done by training PhDs and postdocs, by supporting the best researchers and by investing in the development of research infrastructure. Because in this way we also ensure a strong starting point for the Danish research environments, for the training, for the interdisciplinary collaborations and for the knowledge exchange. Secondly, we will invest in promising strategic research areas, areas where Danish companies have significant growth potential. At the same time, it ensures that investment contributes to the solution of some of the main challenges facing society, for example: in the fields of energy, climate and health. Thirdly, we believe that it is a priority to work together to strengthen the results. And that is why we must ensure knowledge-based growth, where increased cooperation between knowledge institutions and Danish companies is a very high priority. The transfer of knowledge that is taking place there is important. Fourthly, we want to strengthen international cooperation and that is essential for research. We must ensure that Danish knowledge institutions and companies have access to the latest knowledge globally, i.e. not only the knowledge we produce in Denmark, but globally. What then happened in 2014, i.e. in the year that we are leaving soon or at least not so long? The largest reform of the research and innovation system has been carried out with the Danish Innovation Fund. The creation of the Fund has helped to create a simpler and more coherent research and innovation system. After all, the fund must invest in research, in technology development and in innovation, which is based on the challenges and needs of society and companies. In 2015, the fund will translate into the region of 1.6 billion. kr. The fund was set up on 1 April and has managed, in just the last two months, to launch the first three social partnerships. It is common for the social partnerships that they are facing challenges to opportunities. That is the aim of the question whether it is about testing new promising medicines on, for example. incurable cancer patients who are otherwise abandoned by normal treatment, or to develop new environmentally friendly technologies and solutions for shipping, something that is also being looked at internationally. The Innovation Fund has generally got off to a good start. In fact, the Innovation Fund is currently completing its strategy and has also been presenting it publicly in several places, in other words in relation to how the fund will in practice invest in cultivating and translating ideas and knowledge and technology to value Denmark. It is also a strategy which, moreover, envisages close cooperation with the Danish People's Party rapporteur, close coordination with the UDPs, and I look forward to following the further work in the fund. 2014 was also the starting point for the new and largest research infrastructure project in recent times, which has been under way for a very long time and which several rapporteurs have also mentioned. At the beginning of September I was with my then Swedish ministerial colleague in Lund to take the first spade to what is just going to be the European Spallation Source, ESS, which is becoming something that I think one might call the world's largest, most powerful microscope • The Left's rapporteur tried to say it very simplified, which can be difficult • It will be several hundred meters long when it is finished in 2019. It's going to cost 1.9 billion. In other words, almost 14 billion euros. Danish kroner. That's a lot of money. No country could have set up and financed such a research infrastructure alone, and that is the case today for a great many research facilities and research projects. And this just shows once again the importance of the crucial importance of being able to work across borders and to have close coordinated cooperation in the EU countries, which are, of course, the countries that are helping to fund it here, also centrally from EU teams. During 2014, this set of voluntary guidelines, a code of conduct, has also been developed for research integrity. It is a code to which I am very pleased that both universities and research funding funds have contributed and to which I am most pleased that everyone has now indicated that they will join. This code provides concrete guidance on how to ensure good scientific practice for the various actors in the research process. There is no doubt that integrity in Danish research increases the credibility of research. It contributes to and is extremely important for us to maintain our international position as a strong knowledge nation recognised in this area. The starting point is that there must be no doubt that research is carried out in compliance with high standards of good scientific practice. To make research even more accessible, also to society, I and the government this year have also published a strategy for Open Access, open access, which happened in June. The vision here is that, from 2022 onwards, there must be free and free access for all to scientific publications from public research institutions and private foundations. Specifically, Open Access has clear benefits for the researchers, because if you get this open access, you can be inspired more quickly and more easily by the work of other researchers and update yourself with the latest knowledge. But Open Access is also essential for the knowledge generated by the research to be used in society, also quite broadly. For example: provide teachers, practitioners and others with easy and free access to valuable knowledge that they can so hopefully translate into better education for better treatment of patients. The companies can also find the research results they need for the development of new products and services so easily and easily. In order to implement and develop the rather ambitious strategy, I have set up a national steering group for Open Access. This is also work at European level, there are several countries that are also very concerned about this and with which we draw inspiration and work together, and I expect the steering group to present concrete initiatives to promote Open Access in Denmark at the beginning of next year, 2015. Then there are several rapporteurs who have spoken about YDUN. As part of the 2014 Research Reserve Agreement, funds were also allocated to the YDUN initiative, an initiative to strengthen women's participation in research at the highest level. I have heard the many different speeches in this debate, and I am also well aware that it is a debate that has also taken place before I sat in the ministerial chair, but from my point of view there can be no doubt that there is a need to do something, because Denmark is so far behind the rest of Europe only 17 per cent. of the Danish professors are women. In fact, I believe that this is a scandalously poor use of the talent we have. An exploitation of the talents and getting all the talents into play is a subject that is close to my heart to get something done about. And we need to motivate more women to get up the scientist ladder. It is not about compromising on quality; it is for me alone about getting all talents into play and exploiting the full potential, and that is what the YDUN initiative is all about. Virtually equal numbers of women and men receive research training, but young women fall out when competing to lead and launch new projects. They do not enter the competition, and that is why the YDUN initiative was a direct invitation to women to join the competition. And it works with a direct invitation: over 500 applicants competed for the only 17 grants, and that also means that only the best ones came through the needle eye. But what is uplifting is that we can already see that many of those who did not get a YDUN grant, so now have blood on their teeth, because the work is done and they are now on the field in a number of other contexts. So the impact of YDUN extends into the future. In 2014 we have also taken the temperature of the Free Research Council, as several rapporteurs mentioned, and of the universities' collaboration with the business community, and here there are just a few cuts from the evaluations. The evaluation of the Danish Council for Independent Research shows that the Council strengthens Danish research. This contributes to the fact that Danish research is part of the absolute world-selite, and that is why this international evaluation panel also recommends that the Danish Council for Independent Research should be maintained as an independent Research Council, and I fully agree with that. Of course, there are things that need to be worked on. Among other things: points out to the evaluation panel that the Council can be better at working with interdisciplinary research and that, as I have just mentioned, there is also a need for more women in Danish research. I look forward to discussing that recommendation and the other recommendations; in fact, I have done so today with the Executive Board of the Free Research Council. In fact, the evaluation of university cooperation with the business community also paints a rather positive picture of a picture that might make up some of the myths in this area. For the last 10 to 15 years, there has been a significant increase in the exchange of knowledge. Universities have opened up against business. The organisational and regulatory framework is in place, and university management is at least very focused on cooperation with the outside world. Very many Danish university researchers work with private companies • We can see this from the statement and this cooperation is of course not only an advantage to the companies. Fortunately, researchers do so for their own sake, and through this cooperation they get inspiration from outside for research and teaching. So no: Danish researchers do not experience business collaboration as an abuse of their freedom of research • the myth may have been somewhat present. And no: Universities in Denmark are not actually heavier to dance with for business than elsewhere in the world. Finally, I would just like to say that the research was also on the agenda and to such an extent, because that was all it was about when earlier this month I hosted the first research meeting as part of a new and, I hope, annual tradition. Part of you were present when we were gathered for 24 hours to debate the future of Danish research. It was incredibly exciting and productive, and it also provided good inspiration for further research policy work. So I look forward to that and I hope it can be maintained, no matter who sits in the chair. So, in conclusion, we have a good starting point, but there is, of course, always room for improvement, as several rapporteurs have said. We must not rest on the laurels, which is why I also welcome today's debate and the various contributions. This shows, I think, that we agree that it is important to create a good framework for research and innovation in Denmark and to continue with the line that has now been taken for a number of years, which allows us to prioritise research and innovation as much as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190048	Thank you, Minister. There's a questioner. Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190054	Thank you. And thank you for the statement by the Minister, now also orally. Of course, you must always look for what is not said or what is not written. In relation to the document we have received, page 4 on primary public research and education institutions specifically does not mention research at professional colleges and professional academies and maritime education institutions. I also do not hear the Minister mention this in his review, so I would like to ask whether the Minister will be working to ensure that institutions such as professional academies and colleges, which are, of course, directly those working on application-oriented research and development, are given more resources to enable them to carry out this task, which is also related to research.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190146	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190149	Thank you. The reason why they are not involved is that this statement stems from agreement on the Danish Innovation Foundation and the work that is going on in connection with research and innovation linked to it. I think it is to be hoped that the rapporteur is aware of the fact that the research and evidence resources that we have just allocated in the research reserve again this year for maritime education for the first time and for professional colleges are really important. It is certainly not a reflection of a lower priority, just how this statement is included in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190231	Mrs. Annette Vilhelmsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190234	Yes, because then the Minister has a very good opportunity to do so, if it is not related to innovation, which I do not understand now, because innovation is of course also about our entire health and care area, etc. That's where we stand really strong. So I'm not buying the whole argument, but great if something can happen forward-looking. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he will be involved in using the development contracts, which are now to be concluded with all educational institutions, whether the Minister will help to commit to cooperation across institutional types on equally precise research and development work. Then there's the opportunity now.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190310	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190313	Exactly the development contracts from 2015 to 2017 we are negotiating now, and one of the objectives that is partly continued and actually being developed in the development contracts, which are the same objectives for all higher education institutions. On the other hand, they themselves set out a number of objectives that they have chosen to achieve in terms of coherence. It was also included in the previous development contract, the link between the educational institutions, but also a duty to work together and it is with great care that we have added cooperation, because it is precisely necessary for the educational institutions to cooperate in research as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190412	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190417	Thank you. If the Minister himself brings the YDUN up again and says that it was a direct call for women to apply for these funds, then I am just surprised that it is not done, which is to say, to call directly on women to seek it instead of mixing it with the grant itself and the assessment of which research projects should be funded, that is to say to place a weighting on women in it. Why can it be that you can't deal with this problem by securing a direct call to these women who are out there in large numbers and are very talented? If they are encouraged to seek, will they not just seek?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190455	I would urge: more women, more research funding! That is what has been said and done. I guess that wasn't enough. At least we have waited a long time, and there are, as I explained, approximately as many female PhD students, about as many female and male researchers at a lower level, but we lack female research leaders. For the talent is there, and we must have exploited all talents. As the rapporteur is well aware, YDUN is a call, but not an exclusion of men who have also sought it. It is only a question of the best who are getting the money here. But it is quite clear, and that is what has been applied for exemption, that if there are two equal candidates, it is the woman who has to have the grant in this context. This is the whole purpose of the pot, and it seems to work, just as it worked with the previous program, and we have today got female top researchers out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190602	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190605	I am absolutely convinced that the female top researchers who came out of previous projects had become top researchers no matter what. I think the big problem is, of course, when the Minister himself recognizes that there is a need for a derogation in order to be able to do this. That is why I believe that this is a direct compromise for the Free Research Council, that is to say that you have this kind of programme instead of doing it in another way. Does the Minister not agree that it is problematic when you start mixing the gender dimension into the allocation of research funds in a specific application?
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190641	I do not think so, because excellence, no matter what, must come first. There is no one here who can get a grant if you are not skilled enough, and that is the whole aim of the programme, that is to get more women to seek. It has now succeeded. It's a small grant. There are 17 who have received, but there were 500 who sought, who will now hopefully seek out. It also looks like in other research programmes, and therefore we get more talents in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190711	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141125190720	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 26 November 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
