ParlaMint-DK_20141023100006	Then we are ready for another working day here in Parliament. I have a few reviews: The Minister for Town, Housing and Rural Development (Carsten Hansen): Bill no. L 39 (Proposal for a law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development. Torst Schack Pedersen (V), Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll (LA) and Behnke Behnke (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 15 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on proximity to the judicial service). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). The Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen) has informed me that, pursuant to Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, she has been informed by the Minister for Education and Research (Sofie Carsten Nielsen). 4, wishes to give the Folketing a written research and innovation policy statement. R 6). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 25 November 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023100114	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Left, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023100154	Thank you. And I would like to officially welcome the new member of the Bureau, who confirms the saying that if you wait long enough, you can become king of Sweden. I'm looking forward to working together. What we have to deal with today is a direct consequence of the growth package we have made and the growth agreement we have made for the food industries back in April 2014. It is of course no secret that we find that more of our manufacturing companies are financially burdened, have some growth challenges, and therefore it may be a very good idea to secure new capital injections when you lack money either to expand production or to ensure your continued growth. We know the model that has been proposed with a new employee company, from among other things. Bornholm, where employees invest 3.5%. of their wages in the company's continued production. That is why the Left also welcomes the proposal to create a new form of company. This means that employees can participate in investing their wages in the growth of the future if they believe that the company in which they work can grow and thus become strong. In the specific case, it is a cooperation between the NNF and the Danish Industry trade union who negotiated a framework agreement for well over 190 jobs. We are positive about the new business model, even if it is on an experimental basis for the next three years. I would urge the government not to consider the bill as a sleeping pillow. There is also a need in the future to think new, innovative in order to expand various growth opportunities to ensure production companies, start-ups and other companies' ability to grow and grow on the Danish market and abroad. We have among other things. in the Left, to look at a neighbouring check so that Danish legislation is never inferior to the legislation they have in the surrounding countries. But of course we have to start somewhere, and that is why I think it is very good that the employee company will hopefully become a reality. I could really stop now, but I have a number of questions, and they are probably primarily addressed to the Minister for Business and Growth. I am not quite sure how to interpret a number of questions, which is why we also need to get an answer to it from the Left before we can finally stamp and sign that we support the bill. The first concerns the doubts expressed by several consultation parties as to whether it is necessary for all employees to participate in the employee company before it can be set up. I think that, and it seems to the Left, is quite essential. I find it difficult to be wise to read both the draft law and the comments and consultation answers that have been received. The next is: Can you force employees who do not want to be part of an employee company to use their private financial assets to participate? In fact, the comments are very clear that it may be necessary and also the consequence that employees who do not wish to participate may be forced to contribute financially to the employee company. The hearing answer then says that it is an interpretation issue, and that is why I think it is unclear how to interpret the law. I personally, and the Liberal Party, too, have great problems with the fact that a very small majority can force a minority to commit itself privately over the coming years to joining the idea that there were 41 employees who forced 40 employees who did not want to join an employee company. In any case, this is an issue that we need to clarify. Another issue is the case of losing your job. Let us imagine that the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Business and Growth are at the forefront of a small production company. One could imagine that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen and myself were employed in the production company and were part of an employee company. We are not doing as lucky as we hope: we are investing our money over a year, but being abandoned because things are not going so well. In that case, the law states that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen and the undersigned must wait almost up to 8 years to get our deposits back. Is that intended in the law? Is that what you want? Do you want to bind people's private finances for such a long time in a company? I do not think that is fair, and we must clarify this before we can say yes. Another issue is what I would call independent legal entities, which are, after all, the form of business. Many large companies, including food production, have different locations. But they are all part of a larger limited liability company, a limited liability company or some other form of company. The legislation provides for employees to invest their funds in the department in which they are employed. However, Danish legislation at the moment is indestructible. You cannot only invest your money in Nordea in Lyngby, when Nordea in Lyngby is part of Nordea in Denmark, and there we have to make sure that the legislation is clear so that the employees are not put into perspective, which in reality cannot be done. I think it is unfinished legal work, and the employees are blinded if you think that your money is secured in a local section of the company you invest in, when it is a group you form part of. There are also a number of interested parties who express scepticism about this. The last thing is that we have to secure the status of employees in the employee company. As soon as the group goes bankrupt, the law states that deposits are subordinated to other creditors. There I have to ask: what does that mean? I do not know, and if the Minister could go through it technically, it would be nice, because I am not aware of how the employees are financially placed at the moment of bankruptcy. I am not aware of whether it is according to the normal rules of bankruptcy law or whether there are special rules with the very imprecise wording of the legislative text. I shall conclude by saying that we support the draft law, of course, but we need to clarify the five points before we can finally vote in favour. I think that the possibility for a small majority to force a minority into large private investment is unfortunate, the legal position is unfortunate, the unfinished form of company under bankruptcy law and notice of termination is also unfortunate and reminiscent of unfinished legal work. These must be the last words from the Left. I look forward to the debate and, of course, bet that the rapporteurs who come after me have thought about those elements and can give a better answer than I can, especially those from the governing parties. And I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023100832	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt and I should just like to point out that I do not have any direct plans to do a career in the royal house in Sweden. It's just so you don't misunderstand the situation completely. But it is Mrs Astrid Krag of the Socialists who is the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023100853	From here, there is also a welcome to the country's finest chair. I don't know if I insult anyone by saying, "You certainly look good there..." Fourth Vice-President Today too!), Mr. Per Clausen. I will not repeat much of what my colleague has just said, but we are cooperating with L 10 and L 16 here today in order to ensure that we have the opportunity to set up the employee investment companies here in Denmark and that tax legislation is also designed to suit that model. After all, it is a three-year experimental scheme, and the aim is to ensure Danish jobs. Basically, the proposal for employee investment companies stems from the "Agreement on the Growth Plan for Food', which the Government presented in December 2013, and which was concluded with a number of parties of the Danish Parliament in April of this year. It happened, you might say, on the backdrop of some dramatic events: the Danish Crown butchery on Bornholm was close to closing, 200 Bornholmers would have lost their jobs, Bornholmese pig farmers would have had to sail their pigs to Sweden to have them slaughtered. This would have meant an incredibly bad thing for the local community, and it was something that recorded, I think, a lot of Danes in those weeks. The two draft laws on employee investment companies that we are discussing here today became part of the solution that saved the Bornholm slaughterhouse workers and the slaughterhouse. As the rapporteur also briefly described, an employee investment company allows employees to deposit up to 7.5 per cent. of the salary, a maximum of DKK 30,000, a year, a deposit to be used to ensure that the company in which they work can invest in the necessary modernisations to enable the company to develop, and thus also that employees' jobs are maintained. With L 10, we are making the tax changes necessary to follow the introduction of the employee investment companies. I think it goes too far if I stand here and go into detail about it, but overall it is about ensuring that employees receive a deduction from their wage contributions in the employee investment company and that the distributions that come from the employee investment company to the employees are included in the personal income. In order for there to be this right to deduct, the supervisory authority must be approved, and it is one of the many safeguards that has been introduced into the legislation to ensure that this is not something you can speculate that this cannot be something that allows us to do social dumping or in other ways undermines the fact that we have good jobs here in Denmark. I think that the basic point, if I am to stay out of the technique, is that the employees do not have to pay income tax on the wage they deposit in the employee investment company; it has probably been quite crucial to secure it if anyone at all would have to go into this. In the consultation answers, several organisations have proposed some other tax models, and I would just like to say that it is not so out of thin air that the chosen one has been chosen here. With this model, it has to be said that the employees have a very special connection with the company in which they are invested. I also believe that it is both logical and reasonable to tax the income as a personal income because there is a right of deduction for the contribution. I know that the tax minister can also do much better than I can to make a calculation showing that it is not, in fact, to the detriment of the employees that we have chosen this model. If that's something, it's a little more favorable than if you had chosen some of the other models that have been on the table. I do not want to get involved in the calculations, it may be, the Minister will, otherwise they can be sent to the committee with a guarantee. That is true, we can see, when we look at the hearings, that there is general support for the intention of the legislative proposal and that there have then been various comments and questions, concerns that have also been raised by the rapporteur of the Left. For me, it is important to say that when we test an innovation and it is, after all, an innovation with these employee investment companies, and that is something we try, it is in a trial period of 3 years that it is essential that the social partners and the organisations in this area play a central role if it is to work. That is why we have also listened a great deal to the many good kicks that they have brought in. There are several organisations that have asked for it to be able to define the possibilities of setting up employee investment companies for specific industries, for particular company sizes, or by requiring the firm to be in need to some extent. As you can also read in the consultation note from the Ministry, it has been considered what is possible here, and the conclusion is that it would be contrary to the EU's state aid rules if this kind of demarcation were to be made, since investors, who, as I have just said, are employees, would have a special tax advantage, and that is why it cannot be defined in this way. The LO has pointed out that the employee representatives who sit on the board of the employee investment company may face a difficult situation because they are in a direct relationship with the company and point out that they should have direct employment protection. We think this is quite reasonable, which is why it is now also pointed out in the draft law that employees' representatives must of course be protected in the same way as shop stewards. Then some organisations have expressed concern that employees will be squeezed into employee investment companies. I think it is very important to say quite clearly that no one can be squeezed into an employee investment company. This is an opportunity, it's an offer to companies and employees. Staff investment companies can only be set up through democratic votes among the employees, and when an agreement is reached on an employee investment company, this must be done with the involvement of the relevant employee organisation in order to ensure that the interests of the employees are safeguarded, and the national consultation panel with the social partners must ensure that there is a fully informed and otherwise topical basis when the supervisory authorities approve the employee investment company. In other words, a great deal has been done to think in terms of safeguards which counteract speculation, and I also know that the Minister has spent a great deal of time and thought to ensure that this system becomes what is intended, namely a very good offer that can help maintain jobs in Denmark, and therefore nothing that can be speculated about in terms of fraud and social dumping or something that needs to be pushed into that way. With the legislation that we will hopefully adopt here in the Folketing in the near future, we have laid out a framework that offers more opportunities and which can be adapted to the individual companies. This also means that there are several factors which are not regulated by law, but which are regulated by the statutes of each employee investment company. You might think that's solved. I think it is a very good way of ensuring a flexible model that can be adapted to the needs you have. After all, it is important to say that these statutes are both relevant when the supervisory authority approves the employee investment company and because there are special safeguards in place in relation to whether you can simply change the statutes afterwards. So all in all, we are left with an extra opportunity with the bill here for companies and employees. This is not about dragging a new form of company down on anyone, by no means; employees and employees' organisations must always approve a creation. I look forward to seeing what can come out of this bill, and of course also to seeing the follow-up we are doing when the 3-year trial period is finished. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101650	Then I can say that there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101659	Yes, and thank you to the rapporteur. We're agreed on intent. However, if the rapporteur has taken the trouble to read on page 9 of the comments to the draft law, she can see that the second column states at the bottom of the table: • To the extent that it is a company covered by an agreement, the negotiating trade union may agree with the company to set up an employee investment company. If the company is covered by several agreements, it is the most representative trade union at national level that can negotiate on behalf of the employees. In these situations, there may be employees who, against their will, have to pay funds to the employee investment company. It is quite in stark contrast to what the rapporteur has just said from the platform that no one can be forced to pay money for something he does not want to participate in. How does the rapporteur explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101742	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101745	After all, it must be a democratic decision in the workplace if you want to be part of an employee investment company, and then democracy can be a personal vote against it, but if there is a majority in favour of it, it will be possible to implement it. So I am not quite sure that I understand what the rapporteur is referring to. I guess there's gonna have to be a certain economy in an employee investment company like this in order for it to make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101813	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101816	Well, I merely referred to what the rapporteur said on the platform, namely that no one should be forced to contribute if they did not want to. It is precisely the opposite that is directly stated in the observations made by the draft law. The draft law we are discussing today in this form suggests that a narrow majority can force a minority in a company to make not insignificant private-sector investments in a company, a company which will often be threatened with bankruptcy or threatened in the future, because it is often in cases where employee investment is used. Does the rapporteur think it is right that a narrow majority in a company should be able to force a minority to participate in a form of enterprise that they do not want to participate in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101851	Then it's Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101854	The first thing I hear from the rapporteur is that it is said that it must be the most representative employee organisation that is then negotiated about what needs to be negotiated more collectively. I do not know how else the rapporteur imagines it could be dealt with. In relation to the other, I would like to hear what the rapporteur sees if it is not a democratic decision of the staff who must be decisive here. It could be exciting to hear what models the Left would like to see in games.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101925	Then we move on to the next person who has brief comments, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023101929	Thank you. It is on the same street, because I must agree with my colleague that this is very important. I mean, the people who go along with this, whether they can be forced or not, we can go back to the fact that we have a very imminent risk of losing their money. It is not companies whose economy flourishes. After all, it is companies where the greatest risk is that they go bankrupt in a short time. That is why I have to follow up on what my colleague is asking: is it the view of the Social Democratic Party that the proposal allows the individual employee to decide for himself whether he wants to join or not? Does one have the free position itself, or is it the case, that if a majority in the workplace was said in a democratic vote that votes differently, can one be forced in? Does the individual have the free choice of individual participation?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102024	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102027	Well, I can hear it all, that there will be a need for some written answers from the Minister on this. And once again, if you see a model other than this democratic model, I do not know what kind of ideas you have with the rapporteurs, about a different model, then you have to bring it up in committee work. I think it's a good model we've put forward. I also note that there is very broad support for this in general. Then it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that it is not because these are companies that are shoveling in surpluses and expanding staff day by day, because then we would not be standing in these discussions. That's right. But I think the individual employee will be fully aware of that. If you come into a situation where it would be appropriate to discuss setting up an employee investment company, then I think that the seriousness of the matter will be clear to all parties. I don't think this is going to be something very widespread, and we can also see that the ministry writes, namely that it isn't supposed to be something that will blossom up in numbers across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102124	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102128	I must agree with the rapporteur that there are certainly many things that need to be clarified. That's probably what our alternative parliament over here has already realised. Now I am just asking about the position of the Social Democratic Party: is the attitude of the Social Democratic Party that through this proposal, through this scheme, you can force a person into an investor who doesn't want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102150	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102152	Well, I believe that this is on the basis of a democratic decision, but, as I said, I think the Left must have some questions put in writing, and then we must get on the table what we think is different. I can see that there is also a merry discussion in the back of the Chamber between the rapporteur of the Left and the Minister, so I sense that, just as we have the opportunity to spend time in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102212	Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Lars Dohn, who is next to make brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102220	I would like to ask a question which is aimed at clarifying how the Social Democrats' vision is about employee democracy and employee involvement in the light of this proposal. If we go back a number of years, to the 1970s, then there were proposals for economic democracy, where, in my view, we should slowly buy ourselves for the takeover of businesses. However, this does not involve a change in the management right, which means that employees can be required to invest in a company, in other words by a joint decision, without any change in the management right. Is it a new policy on the part of the Social Democrats that employees will be deprived of democratic participation in the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102307	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102311	Well, now I don't think I'm going to reveal too much if I say that this bill doesn't, as you can see, there are more of the consultation answers that revolve around this with: why do you have to make a new model at all? Why should we make employee investment companies at all; could we not just use the well-known model of employee bonds? There is, of course, emphasis on the fact that employee representatives are on the board and that employees' organisations are considered in general, both in relation to the specific company, but also when we talk about the national consultation panel, which will help to ensure that when the supervisory authority decides whether this is a place where they have to approve the creation of an employee investment company, you will actually have a look at the industry at the moment. That is why this is not something that follows on from a general, broad debate on the establishment of economic democracy, nor is it something that we expect to be applied far and wide. This is an opportunity and offer for businesses and employees in distress who want to help ensure that investments can be made in the development of companies that will enable their jobs to be maintained. So even though it is an exciting, big discussion with threads that can be withdrawn in time I liked the rapporteur's saying recently and then talking about the 1970s that is not what has been set aside or the purpose of the legislative proposals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102435	Then it's mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102439	After all, it is a crucial democratic debate whether democracy should stop at factory port or continue inside. But another thing I have noticed in this is that employee representatives in investment companies are not protected from dismissal. Is it in line with the attitude of the trade union and social democrats, the workers' parties in the broad sense, that when a company is in crisis and you make an investment company, you do not protect the employees' representatives who come in here? Isn't that a significant deterioration?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102513	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102517	As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, this is one of the places where we have listened to the hearings and heard the concerns that arose from, among others. LO and where we have written into the bill that there must of course be the same protection for the employees on the board here as there is for shop stewards. This is really important, and if the rapporteur wants to hear more about it, I am sure that the Minister would like to explain what discussions have been held with the parties who have had concerns here. I was also trying to say in my rapporteur's speech that it is, of course, very important that we ensure that the employees who may find themselves in a difficult situation, because they are both in a relationship with their jobs, but also in the interests of employees, are protected and that they are given the right protection. So this is, in fact, one of the changes we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102602	There are no further brief comments to Mrs Astrid Krag. I thank the rapporteur and can then welcome the next rapporteur, who is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023102612	I have to admit that I am somewhat confused by the reports that come from the Left politicians in the Chamber today in particular. In the Danish People's Party we have also been involved in the negotiations and meetings that have been held in the Ministry of Business on the creation of these two draft laws, in particular the one of course, namely L 16 and it has not been known to anyone that this was a scheme that would mean that everyone in the company should join. This is also something that the Left has been presented with in the negotiations that have taken place in relation to the fact that that bill has been sent in consultation and so on. Of course, we would also like to help investigate the issues that are coming. That's fair enough. When there is a consultation period and there are some questions that are being aired, they must of course also both be dealt with and answered by the minster. But on the very question of whether a small majority can decide something, I would say yes, and there is nothing new about that in relation to the debate that has taken place in connection with the creation of this bill. Conversely, it could be said that it would be fair as in Bornholm, where 98 per cent. of the employees voted yes that 2%. could have voted the company closed? That is, of course, what must be the logical consequence of what Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt puts forward these percentages with a small majority. What is involved in this bill is, in fact, that you can individually make a number of criteria as to what should be the basis for the agreement you want at the company. You can, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. It's also part of what's coming, so I think maybe it's a little ghosts in broad daylight we're witnessing. But I do acknowledge that we live in the real world, and perhaps we should also be so generous as to accept that it is not perfect. It is not perfect for us to have a company's employees to finance the company's development. This is quite different from what we are traditionally used to in Denmark, and the way we have built up our business structure with private companies etc. But it is a reality that has come because there have been some companies that have come into crisis, and the alternative has sometimes been more frightening than making a bill like this. Therefore, I and the Danish People's Party do not think it is perfect, but it is useful, it is functional, and it works with this type of bill as long as there is a common understanding that you want it both with the employees of the company and of course also with the company management. If you agree on this, it may not be among 100 per cent, but 75, 80 or 92 or some percentage of the employees it is therefore entirely legitimate that it becomes a reality for all the employees of the company. At least I think it's okay. After all, the bill contains a number of elements, and you can discuss this with a maximum contribution of DKK 30,000. so is reasonable, compared to the fact that typically some in management could pay more if they had to pay the same percentage of every penny they earned in that company. This is also what we can look at the Bornholm model, as we can call it, with regard to Danish Crown. In fact, it has been decided that there may be a lower percentage, but, on the other hand, it is without the maximum amount of pay that will be withheld for investment in the company. So this isn't perfect, but it's useful, and it's useful, and I believe that in future it can also help secure some production jobs in Denmark. Now we are always told that we are not a production society anymore; no, we have now become a knowledge society. But you can't always live by just being smart, you must also sometimes make a living by producing some things, and when you do, Danish society actually grows. In any case, we must do what we can politically to ensure that Denmark is also a production society in the future, where it can pay to be efficient and dynamic and run a business for the benefit of both management and ownership, but of course also for the employees of the company in question. What is difficult, and what is going to be exciting now, is to see how many companies will benefit from the bill. How many will there be? Now I noted that Mrs Astrid Krag, on behalf of the Socialists, said that this was for companies in crisis, but it is not, as it were, because the bill is for all companies. So in principle they could do it at Novo Nordisk if they want to. They may not, I admit, but in principle all companies can of course take advantage of this way of involving the company's employees. And they should be welcome to do so, for the law must be equal for all. After all, we have supported this bill, and we do so as long as both the employer and the employees • the owner of the company, the management of the company and a large majority of the employees say: this is probably the best we can achieve in the situation in which our company finds itself. In other places he was chosen to propose that one should vote on a definite wage reduction, and yet elsewhere one has voluntarily chosen simply not to get pay increases for three years. This is also the case with companies that have handled it. This is actually a model where you're not taken away from your money like that 100 percent. No, they are being channelled into an investment fund, and that means that they will come in at a later stage. We should not forget, then, that part of the amount is a tax that we postpone. It is, in fact, all taxpayers who help to accept in a spirit of solidarity that some pay less in tax for a number of years, and then they are taxed, as in the case of a pension paid after the cessation of work. It is not perfect, we admit it, but we believe it is perfectly justifiable and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103233	Then there are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103238	I am actually delighted that I can agree with most of it, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby says from the platform. It makes me a little sad though it may be that it is because I am dumber than other people's children, you don't know that there is such a big question mark on the individual questions I raise. It may be that the rapporteur can explain better than I do how the employees are faced with bankruptcy, according to what is said about how they are dealt with by resignation and other things. In fact, I think that these are quite relevant questions. If I allow myself briefly to question the construction, this is because the text of the agreement says quite peacefully: all employees must contribute part of their salary in order to gain ownership. It is legally read as a prerequisite. So it does not say that, even if a majority so wishes, it obliges the rest of the staff. That is just what I am questioning, it is an interpretation issue, and I think that is, in my view, appropriate. Perhaps that is more a comment on what the rapporteur said than a question, even to make it clear that we support the draft law in this way and think it is quite reasonable, but there are a number of areas of doubt that we owe to ourselves, but especially to the many people who will invest their savings, to clarify before we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103345	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103348	Well, I do recognize that too I said that the criticisms that came must, of course, be answered, as we usually do here in the Danish Parliament. I'm not going to defend the government, the government will see to that for itself. That is not my job, and I can, of course, inform Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt about, but I just think that, as Mr. In his rapporteur's speech, Jakob Engel-Schmidt said that if the Left were to support this bill, then etc. etc. There it is just that I am saying that in the negotiations that have been about this, the Left has been at the table. It's a good thing it hasn't been mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who has been involved, but there have been Left representatives, and the very criticism of whether it should be an absolute majority or a majority of 100 per cent that should vote in favour, or 98 per cent. could be enough, as it is on Bornholm, are thus some elements that everyone was aware of even when we put this into effect. It's nothing new. That was my point, really.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103453	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103456	But I totally accept that as well. I really just think that I am doing my job by questioning things that are unclear in the legislation and things that are not finished, and so I read from the text of the agreement we have reached. It is true that, as the youngest member of parliament in the rear row, I am not the one who sits and leads the big negotiating web. It may be that I get there in my life at some point, if the higher powers smile on me. However, it is a prerequisite for the Left to clarify this, and I shall not interfere with what each company sets criteria, together with their employees and trade unions, for what percentage should be included. It's gotta be decentralized. But my concern, as laid down by the law, is in some cases for a very large minority that can be committed privately. I would like to look into that further.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103534	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103536	But then it's kind of like the cat about the hot porridge. There is nothing new to add, one can say, because that is the way it is. It is always possible to discuss whether it is the 98 per cent that is right or the 2 per cent that should slow down the 98 per cent. I admit that this is a form of economic abuse against the 2% who voted against the agreement on Bornholm, for example, but it could be in the real world, in which I at least try to find myself, that it is a better thing to learn to live than that Bornholm's slaughterhouse, Danish Crown, was closed and all men were sent home. Maybe it was even worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103616	Then it is the next with short remarks, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103622	Thank you. It is only a question of clarification because we can see from the hearings that there have been that there are a great many who cannot really understand exactly the subject we are discussing here, that is, whether the majority can force the minority. So it is not so crazy that we here in the Folketing may be trying to beat the individual political parties their perception of how the bill should be understood in that area. This is not the basis for any particular discussion, but I just want to be absolutely sure: is it the case that the Danish People's Party understands the present proposal to that effect that a majority can force a minority into an employee investment company?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103701	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103705	Yes, that is what is at stake, and that is also what has been announced in the debates that have taken place and where the Left has taken part.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103714	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103717	I am just politely pointing out that many people have asked about it, and they have, of course, received the following reply from the Ministry: the employees must have a real opportunity not to participate. I read that as if you could call it in. Another hearing answer, page 11, says: There is no requirement for all employees to participate in the Ms. I would just point out that we are dealing with an important legislative proposal that could cost a lot of people a lot of money. It is absolutely essential that we know one hundred per cent what this is all about. So I note that there is at least a difference between the Danish People's Party's and the minister's perception of it, and we should get it out of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103754	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103757	I'm not of the opinion that there is. In fact, I also said that the question raised by Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidts and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen's side, of course both must be examined and answered. I'm sure the government will take care of that for itself. That is not something I should be spending my speaking time explaining. That's kind of what I said. And that's what I stand by. I think that when we have this kind of proposal, whatever you try to make it into, it is difficult to make a completely rigorous economic weighting which makes everyone right. Because they do not, and neither did they at Bornholm, i.e. the 2% who voted against the rescue operation. They weren't right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103837	There will then be no further brief comments, which is why I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. And the next rapporteur is Nadeem Farooq from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023103848	Thank you. First of all, congratulations to our new Bureau member. On the radical side, we are pleased that the government, by a broad majority, is proposing a 3-year pilot scheme with employee investment companies. This arrangement means that employees can invest wage funds in an employee investment company. The company invests the accumulated wage funds in the company in which the employees are employed. And then there are more technical things in relation to amounts and other things that my fellow rapporteurs have mentioned. I won't tire you of that. However, what is important for me to say, and what is also important in relation to the radical support and the government's support for this, is that it is an innovative proposal to ensure that Danish jobs are maintained in Denmark. So you can talk about that in an uncertain time, when we hear a lot about production jobs that leave Denmark and where there is uncertainty, it is here an expression of a consensus model whether you want to, as we in Denmark are good at the Danish model, where we are good at securing solutions in the labour market, in the job market. So you have to see it as an extension of the Danish model. And I actually think it's a good model we found here. It is not the model alone that solves our challenges, as it were, but it is a good contribution. There has been a great deal of talk about various things about the system that could be discussed, and we are also willing to discuss this in the further reading of the committee. In fact, I think that if we look at the basics of this model, it is a good model with an experimental system, and we radicals can back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104053	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104101	To a large extent, I agree with the rapporteur in his description of the scheme here, but I would just like to know whether, in the rapporteur's view, this is a system that can only be applied, and thus approved by the Business Administration, in need companies, or whether it can also be used, if I may say so, in fresh companies which cannot directly document any capital loss or wish for capital. Can they also be considered for this arrangement?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104131	Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104132	In other words, it may be said that it is probably more relevant that it is companies that are a little more in need that are going to use it first and foremost. But as I see it, it is not limited to those companies alone. It is also important for me to say that this is not just about fire-fighting. It is also about due diligence, and I think the questioner and I agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104200	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104205	Now that the rapporteur has clarified his future, it may be that we can have a bold answer to a very specific question, and I hope the rapporteur is wiser than I am: the comments on the draft law say that it is likely that employees can be forced to participate. The consultation answer says here that someone who does not want to participate has the opportunity to withdraw from the employee investment company. How does the rapporteur see this? What are we supposed to believe?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104229	Then it's mr. Nadeem Farooq.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104232	Now I don't think of myself as being smarter than sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. I'm trying to get that or get just as smart, but there are some challenges in that. As far as the question is concerned, I would like to say that I understand it in the sense that yes, the employees have the influence. They have the power to say no to this. However, as in collective bargaining, when it comes to supporting it, it is about whether a majority of employees back it up. That is the influence there is, and that is a democratic way of doing it. I can back that up. That's how I get it. I do not know whether the questioner is referring to anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104315	As far as I can see, there are no further brief remarks to Mr. Nadeem Farooq. I would therefore like to thank Mr Seligman. Nadeem Farooq and welcomes the next rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104335	Congratulations also from the SF with the seat in the Bureau, although it was at the expense of us. But congratulations anyway. Denmark is among other things. built on the cooperative movement and over the years we have solved a number of different problems in the labour market and in the way we produce. And I also got really excited when I heard about this model on top of the problems that were on Bornholm. One thing is to solve a specific problem in a specific time, but the problem with Danish Crown at Bornholm and the slaughterhouse workers who were at risk of losing their jobs is a general problem we see in several industries and many places in the country. Now the Socialist rapporteur said earlier that this had not emerged from the thinking of economic democracy, and I must agree entirely with the rapporteur on that, perhaps one might wish it to be a little more so. I think there are parts of the model that are very good, and I am very excited about the idea, for the thinking behind it. SF is not part of the food agreement, and it has nothing to do with this model, but it was because of the discussion about rim zones and other things. We would very much have liked to have been in the discussion on the model and would also like to table a number of amendments in this process because we believe that it can still be very good. But there are a number of problems with it, we think from the SF. There is a discrepancy in the power ratio between company participants and employee participants. When employees put part of their salary on high ground, it is not enough to have a relatively limited influence. There will be, for example: We must not influence the way in which profits are distributed, whether jobs should be moved out of the country, whether environmental considerations should be taken into account. But it is very good that the protection section has been corrected, so that protection is now given in line with shop stewards, because that was a pretty big problem before. SF would have liked this to have become a real break in the way we organize ourselves. Because it is not only the abattoirs, but a large number of industries that are challenged by globalisation, by competition, and if it is possible to save a company because the employees go in and get involved and risk some of their own pay to save the company, and if it is matched by a real influence, we will actually think that some of the problems we are currently seeing with industries in crisis could end up in something even better than before. You will have a labour market that will be more influenced by the employees who are in the workplace and where you will assess more broadly what the profits are to be used for, because those who invest in the company also have a real interest in its survival, otherwise they will lose their jobs. As I have said, SF believes that there are a number of things we need to look at, both in relation to the power relationship between the company participants and the employee participants, and in relation to a more real participation when you put part of your salary at risk. There are also a number of consultations which include: discussing this with secret ballots, because you get some kind of influence by sitting somewhere, but at the same time you can be fired, as you have always been able to do. We think it is fundamental that parts of the management right are looked at when a traditional way of directing and distributing the work is being done. We cannot say on the part of the SF whether we are going to vote in favour of this, because some of the things we are concerned about are so fundamental that it will be too early to comment on them. The idea is really, really good, and I would also like to say to the Minister for Business and Growth that I am sure that the intention is also that this should become a way both to protect Danish jobs, but also to develop the Danish labour market, as we have done before, and to ensure employees both safety and influence on their own work. And there we still think there are some things that need to be corrected before we can say yes. But the thinking behind it and the idea behind it are entirely supportive.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104919	I can see that one brief comment has been made. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104925	Thank you. Now, Mr. Knox... Preben Bang Henriksen and I, after two years of working in Mr. Mr Sass Larsen's company will be fired, the rapporteur then believes that it is reasonable that Mr Sass Larsen's current legislation should be dismissed. Preben Bang Henriksen and I have to wait between 5 and 8 years for the funds we have made available to the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104941	Then it's Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104945	Will the rapporteur give concrete form to the circumstances in which the rapporteur and Mr Seligman are concerned? Preben Bang Henriksen no longer works in the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023104955	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105001	It was just a thoughtful example that employees who choose to contribute to the employee investment company could risk being fired, and then there is a very long period in relation to getting the money back, even if you no longer work in the company. We find that unfortunate. Does the rapporteur also think that this is unfortunate?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105011	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105014	It is one of the basic things, one of the most important things we think should be seen on here. Because you will find yourself in the special situation of depositing part of your salary as a capital injection into a company of self-interest, because you want the company to survive, so you can keep your job, but there is no fundamental change in the management right in that power relationship, which means that you can be fired after you have put your own salary at risk. And that is why I believe that the question is wider and wider than what is quite rightly asked by the rapporteur, and that is something that we need to look at, because no, that is not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105057	Then one brief remark has led to more, for now Mrs Astrid Krag from the Socialist Group has at least joined us.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105104	Well, I guess it's the closest one can come to having the character of a very, very limited question. I hear the SF's concerns and the things that need to be clarified, and I also hear a SF that does not say in advance whether or not to vote against. But I also hear a SF that only problems things in L 16, so I would like to know if SF thus supports L 10, i.e. the tax part of what we are dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105128	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105132	We think there are really good bars in L 10 that follow naturally from L 16, compared to the way you want to change it, so that's not where we have our main focus. It is clear that the legislative proposals are linked, but because I had the things I wanted to do on behalf of the SF in relation to L 16, I had also said in advance that it would be good to discuss the legislative proposals separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105156	Thank you. I understand that Astrid Krag has received as much answers as she wants today. Then we can move on to the next person who has short remarks, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105206	I understood SF's attitude to the situation when you get fired, or if you get fired, so that you have to wait for these 5-8 years to have a chance to maybe get your money back. That is where I fully share the SF's view. But I would also like to hear from the same example whether the rapporteur agrees that it cannot be fair either that, in the intervening period when money has been deposited in the company where you are fired, you have lost your right to vote at the company's general meeting. That is actually what the comments say. Does the rapporteur believe that this can be the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105244	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105248	I am pleased that today the SF and the Left seem to share a great many values and views in relation to democratic control of companies and to where we can end up in a future utopia. No, quite seriously I hear the questioner say that there must be reasonableness between risking something, here part of your salary, and then what you get again. Now both the questioner and his colleague, Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, the very specific question that I agree with, but I do believe that the problem is even greater. This is a new break in the way you can organize yourself, a new break, which I very much welcome if we get some of the rather basic things that I find problematic in it right. But it's a really good way to get a new type of business. It is not something that should replace other types of companies, but it must be a good addition to it. When a company's management and employees can figure out how to be part of a new model, there must be fairness and fairness, and there is not yet in the proposed model.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105358	Sir. Nor does Preben Bang Henriksen have any further comments, which means that there are no further brief comments to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, so thank her. Then I welcome the next rapporteur and this is Lars Dohn from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105415	Thank you for that, President. On behalf of Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Christian Juhl, I shall read his speech. Christian Juhl is prevented from attending, but the role as a temp is not new to me. I've been in primary school for 38 years, so it's a title I've had to wear sometimes. A new law on employee investment companies should enable the contract concluded by the NNF with Danish Crown concerning the slaughterhouse at Bornholm to be implemented. The draft law put forward by the Government is far more far-reaching and far more favourable to employers than the Bornholm Agreement and violates several of the principles contained therein. What the government is putting forward is a general bill for all companies that are to be used to press employees to provide risk capital to their employer. The Bornholm Agreement requires all employees to participate in an employee investment company. That principle is waived in the draft law. In addition, the Bornholm Agreement contains a principle that all participants on equal terms of contribution ^ i.e. a fixed percentage of salary. The bill ensures that the best paid pay the lowest percentage by setting a ceiling of DKK 30,000. in annual payment. This means that those who have a salary of 20,000 kroner. a month, pays 71⁄2%, while all with a salary of over 34,000 DKK. a month pays a lower percentage, which, in addition, falls the higher the income you have. The draft law guarantees risk capital, but it does not ensure that the payers also have control over the company. On the contrary, the draft law ensures that the company receiving the workers' money is in control. The workers have to pay, but there must be no slippage in the right of management. The bill also means that workers made redundant must wave goodbye to their deposits. Not only do employees have to invest a share of the salary to help the employer; they also have to live with the threat of being shut down by firing. And if things go seriously wrong, so that the company closes, the deposits are not protected by the Employees' Guarantee Fund. It is possible that the government will point out that this is just a framework law so that all the above problems can be resolved in some specific agreements, but the trend will of course be that employers will target the minimum framework outlined in the law. Nor is the draft law limited to applying to real firms in difficulty with special needs for capital. With a fernisty reference to the European Union, it is proposed in the consultation note that this should apply to all companies. In short, a sumptuous roof table is being set up for all employers who, with the firing threat, can pressure their employees to accept a real wage cut. Therefore, the draft law, which specifically refers to employee investment companies, should be limited to collective industrial undertakings with at least 35 employees. Employee investment companies should not be used as a tool for effective social dumping. Against this background, Enhedslisten proposes a number of amendments which ensure the rights and influence of employees and trade union organisations. As the proposal stands, the Enhedslisten will vote against it. With regard to L 10, which deals with the fiscal consequences of L 16, we must make just one comment. Some professional organizations complain that a possible return on employee investment should be taxed as wage income rather than as a much cheaper capital income. If it were for the Enhedslisten, capital income should be taxed as wages. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105806	Thank you, sir. Lars Dohn. This does not give rise to any brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023105817	We are dealing with L 10 and L 16. We've been involved in negotiating this deal ourselves. The aim is to introduce an experimental scheme with employee investment companies. We think it is a good idea to have new forms of company. There are problems for many companies in raising capital. We believe that these problems will not be reduced in the future, because of the roll-out of regulation across the banks. But in general we also think it is good that there is scope for many different types of company. This allows different types of companies to compete with each other and to find out which ones are best at generating growth and prosperity and they are likely to become more widespread. I have to say that I share the surprise of the Left that some employees may be forced to invest their wages in a company. It is strange that, if not misunderstandings, such things may arise, though different interpretations of a bill which the parties have been sitting and negotiating. When I entered the Parliamentary Chamber here, I was of the clear conviction that it was the case that you, as an employee, did not want to invest in the company in which you were employed, you could not be forced to do so, even though a majority of your colleagues thought it was a good idea. I have to say that it is quite a matter of principle for us that a majority cannot rule over a minority. It is quite a matter of principle for us that a majority cannot decide that a minority, no matter how small that minority is, should be forced to invest part of its salary against its will. It is, of course, regrettable that we are dealing here with a legislative proposal where such misunderstandings arise. But these misunderstandings need to be clarified, and then we have to try to focus on the fact that there is a broad consensus that we think it is a good idea for new forms of company to emerge. The conclusion is that, of course, because we have been involved in negotiating it, we are in favour of a new form of company with employee investment. However, there are some issues that need to be clarified here, and I agree with the rapporteur of the Left that there are some questions of interpretation. If it says that all employees must contribute part of their wages in order to gain ownership, then we have also understood that those who do not want to do so will not, of course, acquire ownership, and they are allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110122	I can see that there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110129	I'm sorry, sir. Joachim B. Olsen must live in a representative democracy when it is a fundamental position that any majority rule that goes against a minority is fundamentally and in principle wrong. I agree with the rapporteur that it is a little muddy in terms of how to say no etc., but let us look at the model from Bornholm and be inspired by it. If there were some kind of qualified majority, a vote that would do this, you would set up such a company, otherwise the company would close if it were even so clear that it would do so, would it be a model that the Liberal Alliance could live with?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110218	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110221	In relation to the remark that it would be a sin for me to live in a representative democracy, I do not think that the two things can be compared here. In other words, it is one thing to be critical of the fact that a majority of the population can decide to take money from a minority of the population, but it is nevertheless contrary to the fact that one is employed in a company where the majority of one's colleagues can decide that one has to invest part of one's salary in that company. There's a difference. What can we live with in terms of whether it was a qualified majority? Well, that is something we need to talk about, because as I understand it, the Left is standing today and has a different view of what this bill actually contains on this issue, and we have the same amazement. Now we need to hear what the Conservatives, who have also been involved in negotiating it, say. After the Conservatives have been in the Chair, we can, of course, be in the position that there are actually three parties which have a different understanding from the government of what was actually agreed around the table, and then we must have a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110335	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110338	I agree that it could be clearer, but I believe that there is now somewhere in the note that if there is agreement on the company in question, the trade union movement must of course be involved and it must also be voted on. I also agree with the question of what this thing about, which it says that no one should be forced to enter into, means. We can easily discuss it further during the committee's work. I think there is enough to discuss it, but I just want to hear the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, whether this bill could, in principle, allow some kind of qualified majority to decide on a model like the one they had on Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110425	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110427	I simply cannot answer that, because I have agreed to the negotiations on this bill with the conviction that if there was only one employee who did not want his or her salary to be invested in the company, he could get rid of it. That is why I cannot answer that question, because it will still be different in principle from the way I have seen this bill. I have to say, then, that it is not unusual for there to be different views about how a legislative proposal should be understood or that even misunderstandings may arise in the negotiations, even when agreements have been concluded. I have been there on other occasions, after which we had to discuss the content of something that was actually thought to have been agreed, but then there has been a dispute. Apparently it's happened here too, and then we'll just have to talk about it. I don't really see it as more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110527	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no more brief comments, so Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is finished too. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110538	Thank you, President. These are two good legislative proposals that we are discussing today. The more we can get to invest in Danish companies, the better; the more employees we can get to get involved in their own company, the better. So it's a plussum game: We get more people to take an interest in Danish companies, and we also get more to invest in Danish companies. So it's positive. If you look at the whole structure of the two legislative proposals we are considering from the two ministers, we can basically support the main elements of it. We would have liked to have made it more attractive to invest in our own business. If you look at the total return tax for a person who chooses to enter such an investment, it will be 63.8%. We would have liked to have made it more attractive. Instead of adding two different tax rates together and making it that way is not so great, we think that a tax reward could have been given if we went in and invested. We think that the model that has been proposed here is sensible. It means that more employees will be able to go in and make such MSs, and hopefully it will spread around Denmark. One could then have chosen to do it in the way we did it a few years ago, that is to say to have some real employee bonds. They were fiscally favoured and it was attractive to invest in them. The disadvantage was, of course, also seen from the employee side that it did not give a real influence on the company. And as a good capitalist, I think that if you invest in something, you should of course also have the opportunity to influence it. So a combination of the attractive thing about employee bonds and such an MS scheme would probably be the best way to do it. But basically, this is a good step in the right direction that we can support. If we then take up the discussion which has taken place about whether everyone should be in or not, I would say that I did not take part in those negotiations myself. The glorie has been polished for me. But we have accepted from the conservative side the proposal that has been put forward. I think it is right that we should discuss at committee stage what the definition is of whether everyone is in it or not. When I read it, and also when I approved it on behalf of our party, because I did so, I saw it as such that if a majority of the staff chose to vote 'yes' to this, you were there, but then they were the ones who wanted to be there, and we have to discuss that during the committee procedure. It is not the case that we will run away from the fact that we have accepted the proposals here, because the construction is good, it is relevant and it will help to increase investment in Danish companies and probably also save some companies in some areas of Denmark. So we stand by that. But we also think it is relevant to discuss who is forced to participate in a scheme in which you may not be interested. I think it is attractive to be involved in investing in your own business, but it may be that some people will not do so, and then it seems rather out of place to force them to do so, even with the consequences it will have if they have to leave the company and all sorts of other things. But we must do so during the committee procedure. Summa summarum is that we can support the two proposals, which are a step in the right direction, and then we must have a fundamental discussion about who is on board and who is not on board during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110918	Thank you, sir. Brian Mikkelsen. There are no brief comments, so we can go further, and the next one to speak is the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023110938	Thank you to all the rapporteurs for the speeches and the debate. Thanks also to the Danish People's Party for the clear and unequivocal support for the proposal and the intentions behind it, and to the Conservatives, also to the Social Democrats and the Radicals and to the SF, which I also sensed was positive, but they did have some questions. However, I did not feel that I would be with you and also thank you to the Liberal Alliance and the Left for backing the agreement we have made, although they do have a number of questions of principle in this regard, which I will try to answer. But may I not say first of all that this proposal has come on the basis that a trade union and a company approached me and said that they had some challenges with their production in Denmark, and that they wanted to have a model in which, from the government's point of view, we could help the employees to make this type of investment. On the basis of this approach, we have then drawn up a proposal and we have tried to construct it in such a way that it could be helpful to the industry in question. But, in general terms, of course, we have also had to do so in such a way that it has had to apply to everyone. That is why it has not been a job that the government has put in from the beginning and said that this was something we particularly wanted to promote; it has arisen because there has been a need out there. I think you're just like sir. Brian Mikkelsen, that this is a new and different way of raising capital, responsible capital, for companies, and which may also be able to do so, there are at least a few examples of how one can actually maintain one's business, that one can invest in one's own workplace, and even have an increased impact on it. It is, of course, the case that, when general legislation is made, there are also challenges in this regard in terms of how to define it and how to ensure that it, let us say, cannot be abused. For example, is it... Something like that that you can use to suddenly sit around and speculate about it? Is there a possibility that it can be used for social dumping and other things? After all, we have had all these considerations and worked very carefully. In fact, we have made sure that it is put in place so that it must be approved every time one makes such a company, and so that we also ensure that it is not possible to do precisely social dumping in order to come and construct all sorts of companies. So we actually believe that we have fenced it well and that it should be operational. Then there has been a debate which has been asked what is applicable. Who's gonna be in it, and who's not gonna be in it? I would therefore like to say that in all the negotiations it is 100% clear that it is not a question of an individual contract drawn up by the individual employee in relation to the company; it is a question of the whole group of employees going in and taking a vote on and weighing down whether you want to join or not. I would also like to make it very clear that these types of companies will never happen unless both employers, i.e. the company, and the employees want it. No one can force each other here. What we have then done in connection with the legislative proposal here is that we have actually also given a great deal of flexibility on the ground. This means that the statutes can be drawn up locally at the discretion of each company. If you think there should be a two-thirds majority for it, you can actually write it in. You can also write in to that extent that it has to be one hundred percent if you think it's funny. But you can also write in that it has to be one in excess of half, as is the case elsewhere. This is something to be agreed from time to time and from place to place. It is no wonder, when you look at the fact that it is a matter of wage and contractual relations, that you then have about the same logic here, which in fact also applies to the adoption of contractual relations; in other areas such as the organisation of holidays, maternity leave in the case of wages and allowances, you are in fact at risk of being subjected to exactly the holiday, maternity leave, wages and allowances which are now in force in the agreement if someone in excess of half has voted in favour of it. That is the effect out there in advance, and I just want to say that that is what is reflected in this connection. So there is no doubt here; that is what has been the starting point and the conditions for it. Then, as an employee, you can of course say that you want to quit your job. In fact, some people at Bornholm did and that you want to go somewhere else because you don't want to do this, and that's fair enough, of course you always have the opportunity to do that. But it also binds. Imagine if you suddenly find yourself in a situation where some people have to take on the risk of investing because it is a risk, while others do not have to, yes, we can figure out how it is going to be. Well, the fact that there are some who say that they take the risk and the others get a higher salary may not provide a very good basis for making this work as something particularly successful, I think. That is why, of course, it must be something that applies to all and to all groups of employees. Then we have even arranged for it to be so appropriate that we have said that if, for example, in a company, there is one thing that is important. There are 200 slaughterhouse workers and two gardeners, and the two gardeners do not want to be in it, so it may also be possible; it may actually be. It is even so flexible that you can do it that way. So we have tried to strive for all possible flexibility so that we can set it up, as we now think it is most appropriate and most democratic and most reasonable, from time to time, where we now have to go in relation to this. Some questions were then asked: What if you lose your job? I think there has been an example of some kind of business in which you might have to wait 5-8 years before you get the money out, and that is absolutely correct. It is risk capital that is invested in the company. After all, we cannot have risk capital in liquid form, because then it is, as it were, not very useful anymore. In other words, there are a few cases where you can get the money out immediately, one is in connection with retirement, and the other is in connection with death, but otherwise you have to wait until you realise the investment. We actually know it from LD and other places where similar structures have been built, and where you have to wait a while, because if you can, if I may say so, just constantly withdraw liquidity and capital from the company, then it will be a rather poor investment that you can make in the long term here. So it's just that you tie this up. But we can also refer to the LD and others, where it has also been excellent investment that employees have made over time, so it can only be recommended. After all, some questions have been asked, and I should like to say that I am very, very happy to answer all the questions, including all the technical examples and others, in order to be able to answer everything here. It is clear that this is new legislation, and some of it is also entirely new terrain, and therefore there will be a number of issues where we have to say that we have to take a new position on this. But we have tried in the bill to think through as many of these situations as possible. This also applies to bankruptcy. Let me be quite clear: if you invest your money in a company and the company you have invested it in goes bankrupt, you lose your money. This is responsible capital, and you are also subordinated to other secured creditors. So there's a risk associated with this, you shouldn't hide it at all. Then I would just like to say briefly in relation to some of the comments that have been made, that I think Hans Kristian Skibby said something very correct and apt about how the industrial structure should be in Denmark and that this is aimed at a type of industrial structure which it is important to maintain, namely production jobs. Danish industry and Danish production jobs have been strongly challenged. We have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. You can't always adapt down there in the payroll competition. It can be difficult enough at some point to get there and you can't always improve productivity, but you can use all the elements so that we can still preserve and ensure that there are production jobs in Denmark. And this is actually, I would say, designed specifically for Production Denmark, if that's what you want to be in relation to it. I think it's an offer you can use out there, and if you don't like it, you can't use it; it's very simple. We have ensured, as the hearings have shown, that there are secret votes, that is. That you are not forced to stand and look at each other when you have to vote; you can vote in secret and free ballots, in free elections. So that way we have secured it too. So I actually think we've come a long way. Then you can always philosophize a little about how much it has to do with ED and OD. And that's where I actually think it has a lot to do with it, kind of along the way. As the good capitalist, Brian Mikkelsen, said here, one wants to influence one's invested capital, and it was the same philosophy that was behind the thinking of the OD. With regard to EG, it might have been the intention of the trade unions to play a slightly larger role. So they don't do that to such an extent here. But the fact that you actually have an influence on the capital that you invest is really such a very promising and excellent idea as it is, I think, worth pursuing and joining, and indeed enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112041	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. We have a number of brief comments to make. The first is from Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112052	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. I could see a transformation in which the minister, when he spoke of the ED and the OD, actually became Anker Jørgensen's grandson on the platform. It must be a joyful experience for every social democrat. However, I agree with the Minister that this is a good proposal for the companies that want to use it and we support the intention. I would also like to thank the Minister for clarifying some of the issues that we raised in the comments that have just been made, among other things. In any event, the question of whether a bankruptcy would clarify some of the question and then lay off. The latter brings me to the question: does the Minister not think that if we now imagine that we are being fired and then we have to wait for a number of years to get our funds, which I think is OK when we talk about risk capital, then at the same time we should have the same rights and voting rights as if we were still away from the company, since we still have our funds tied actively and developing? I hope we can talk about that. Then the Minister must not misunderstand our many questions. It is just that in some areas some of the material we have received from the Ministry contains a very pronounced form of ambivalence. I shall be quick to make this brief: it is simply that in a hearing answer it says that you cannot commit employees who do not want it, and the comments say that you can force employees with it. That is what brings me to some of my questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112207	Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112209	I am very, very happy to correct any misunderstandings that may exist, even in the text, if there is any ambiguity here. I have not seen examples of this, but I should not deny that there is. It is clear that the starting point for who has the right to vote, for example at the employee's general meeting, must be the owners of the company. And there you can have a discussion... I'd like to do that and ask if, if you've been in the company in full time minus a month, you can still keep some sort of voting right or something else. We can discuss whether it is appropriate or not, so I have no difficulty in clarifying that further in relation to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112301	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112304	I'm glad. Of course, we will also have a discussion on the big issue of participation. After all, we support the intention of the proposal, but we need to become wiser in a number of areas. It seems as if the Minister is willing to help us and the rest of the Folketing with those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112323	The Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112326	Then I'll stay standing and skip a single exercise here, it can be healthy at my age. It's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, who is next.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112334	Thank you. I would like to say to the Minister that it must be a basic condition when a proposal is made in the Folketing that it cannot give rise to any doubt of interpretation about essential problems. I understand that the petty department can give rise to discussion. But something as essential as that a minority can force a majority of employees to drop DKK 30,000 each year. into this arrangement, must be something we can clearly read from the bill. I also heard the Minister confirm the word clearly. It was said that it is 100% clear that this is the case. Then I just have to say that I am surprised that when I see the hearings, it is every other hearing answer that questions that you cannot read it out of the bill and therefore ask the Ministry. And I am even more surprised by the reply given by the Ministry. One of the points of consultation is: not in the draft law requiring all employees to participate in the MS. That is, as far as I can see, the exact opposite of what the Minister is saying, and I cannot fail to note that there are more of us who have entered the Chamber with this view. We must:
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112445	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112446	I'll try to say it nice and easy, okay? But I have been sitting here negotiating this with the Left Party, and there has been no doubt in those negotiations about what the intention of this proposal was and what the construction should be like. There hasn't been. I'm not the one who's starting to question you. This is the first time I have met it in this Chamber today from the Left. I also believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was talking about this. So there isn't. What is referred to in the comments is the example in which I say that it is the employee groups as such who are voting. If all the slaughterhouse workers say that they are voting together, then all the slaughterhouse workers are included, but if there are now two gardeners in the establishment who, for some reason, do not want to be or cannot be or do not want to be there, or what you are doing there, then the remark that they can be exempted includes them. But it is not the case that you have an individual right to withdraw, and that has therefore been quite clear throughout all the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112552	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112555	Then we were given the floor quite clearly, and that is also quite clear, but I can only say that for a number of Members of Parliament who have read the material here it has not been clear. Nor has it been clear to those entitled to the hearing, because that is what they are constantly asking for. Now they have received an answer from the Ministry, which I at least read as exactly the opposite of what the Minister says. So I really do not think it is quite clear. I think there are various unclear points in this draft law, and I would like to point out to the Minister that the only thing I am asking for is that we know what we are voting on. So we have to do something about that provision. But on the same occasion one could also look at the reasonableness of an employee being able to join a company and invest in a company and then be dismissed the next day and still have his money tied up for 5-8 years. I know the Minister referred to the fact that it was risk capital, but I have to say that this arrangement is a system which is particularly linked to the employee's participation and the employee's interest in that particular firm surviving. It's like it's vanished if he's got the note the next day. So I don't think the comparison is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112656	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112657	I shall contribute to the Parliament's understanding of what we are going to vote on in a constructive manner. I'll work hard for that, I promise. You have to say that you can find lots of examples, lots of border examples of what happens to your capital in the situation where you are made redundant. What happens to your capital if you've been employed for a long time now? You can get it out or not? And what are the conditions on which questions have been raised, and then there is the question of pensions and other matters. There are some cases of demarcation here, and we would very much like to take a closer look at that. But the table catches, as it does in many other areas here. And that does it by risking, for example, only two months' employment in the company in question and then two months' contributions from your salary and other contributions. Then you could look at what that contribution has become over the years; you can't just get it out, there's no trivial limit to it either. So the intention is that it should work for all employee groups, also so that it can be powerful, so that you can use the investment for something. So the table catches.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112806	Then it is the next for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112812	It's kind of the same. The Minister says that there is nothing wrong with waiting for the deposit to be withdrawn. I agree with that in a number of other areas, but now we are making a model for employees to be able to secure their own jobs if it is in real danger, and it is then extended so that you can do it anyway, if you just think it is a good idea to create an MS, but in the situation that you have done it to save your own and the colleagues' jobs, it is a little special that you can be fired, even in a situation where it may not even be the company's survival that is at stake, but happens because of some reconstruction for other reasons. I really think the Minister is right to say that it is quite fine to risk some capital and then some time can be taken to get it out. I would just like the balance to be established on the other hand, i.e. that the risk that this implies that you can in principle be both fired and lose your deposit is matched by more real influence and that the different stakeholders risk the same in this model.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112932	I'm afraid I can't...
ParlaMint-DK_20141023112940	I'd like to ask you to calm down. The audience has every right to listen, but you must not speak from the gallery. It is, of course, one of the rules in here, namely that you may not speak from the public gallery. Perhaps that is why it is called the public gallery. You never know. I assume that the Minister will continue his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113010	I barely had time to get started. First of all, I would like to say that there can be many reasons why you are dismissed from your job. After all, I cannot guard myself in a legislative proposal in relation to all types of examples. There's a management right in a company. I cannot say that all those covered by such a system must never be dismissed. I can't do that. Of course, you can't work with it like that. What you can do here, and which I again think is quite promising, is that the employee investment company that invests some money in the company will in principle make an agreement with the company on how the company's development should take place. This means that if you invest a lot of companies in the cooperative butchery over on Bornholm, you have probably also made an agreement about what that money is to be spent on and what investment and development you want to be made at the slaughterhouse over there, and not if I have to say that the directors on the spot can be allowed to buy red Ferraris, because it would probably be reasonably unreasonable to look at it. That's why you actually get a participation in this way in relation to the company's operation, which you wouldn't otherwise have had, and that's what's part of the construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113130	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113133	So I think we may just disagree with how much influence is enough influence in relation to the risk one takes. We would like the law to be changed, so that the same demands were made on everyone who has to be involved in this model, so that the director and others are also risking the same thing as ordinary employees, and that you have the same starting point. Of course, in this line of thought, there will still be the right of management, as the Minister also says, but in terms of identifying a direction, as regards what it is we are going to do with this company, why it is we are saving it or adding capital, or whatever it is, there is still too much veto from our point of view, and the balance has been tilted too much in relation to those who are putting their wages at risk. There we would like to have more influence on the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113238	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113240	But the influence depends entirely on what the negotiating situation is, and that is different from time to time. You can, of course, make that agreement on the part of the employee investment company in relation to the company in question, which includes a large number of conditions and conditions. I cannot define in advance what it is, and that is part of the whole contract complex to say: we would like to invest some funds under a number of conditions on how the company invests and behaves well, and that is actually very sensible. So we cannot say in advance whether there has been more or less influence. I would actually say that there have been quite a lot of opportunities to gain more influence. To that point, with the upper limit of how much deposits you make, I would say that such a ceiling is being set with these 30,000 kroner, and that is to avoid tax speculation, because if we suddenly got this to include some groups that were very, very high-paid, one could suddenly start tax speculation on it. So that's why we put that ceiling on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113337	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lars Dohn of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113343	Thank you. I heard the Minister say that this new law has a great deal to do with economic democracy and the division of agreements. After all, there was a lot of talk once about moving fence posts, so I would like to ask the Minister, who is Social Democratic Minister for Economic Affairs, whether this is where the fence posts should actually stand. I understand that there is a government in which there is another party and that a majority must be created. But is it the vision here that the employees are invited to invest, but that the management right is unanticipated in the company in which you invest? Is that where we should be, or does the Minister really have a different intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113430	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113432	I can say that the Minister stands firm in the September conciliation of 1899 where we find out who is running and distributing work in the workplace. I understand that the questioner is a member of a party that would like to challenge it, but I do not want to do so here. Then I would say about employee participation, ED and OD, that it can be noted in parentheses that it was just before we introduced the OD. It was not because of the rapporteur's party or because it would vote in favour of it. But it was actually because SF jumped from it at the time. It's a shame you missed that chance. But there was, in fact, an opportunity at the time and one could have voted with the Social Democrats and the Radicals. Our starting point here is that I really think it is a good continuation of what Mr. Brian Mikkelsen said and when the employees come with capital, it is also reasonable that the employees should have influence over the capital that is now being injected. But to challenge the right of management in relation to factory use or anything else, we will not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113521	Then it's mr. Lars Dohn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113524	Then I can interpret from this that the vision which I, under Mogens Lykketoft's leadership of the Frit Forum in the early 1970s, was involved in discussing that the employees would take over the companies over a long period of time has been abandoned today. I can see that from what the Minister says. The fence posts were moved in 1899, and they are not to be moved in the future. I don't think that's very promiseful.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113557	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113558	I can fully confirm that we have left a vision that companies should be fully taken over. We don't think that's a good idea. We think it is a good idea to have a proportionate influence over the capital that you deposit. But the fact that you have a right of management in a workplace also seems to us to be very, very sensible. So I can fully confirm that and there is certainly a reason why the honourable Member is no longer a member of the Frit Forum.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113620	After all, such a debate back in some of the disputes in the history of the workers' movement is exciting. This shows, of course, that we live here all the time with the past and the future in the debates. I shall give the floor to the next person who has brief comments, and that is Mr Beazley. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113639	Thank you, sir. President. I would actually like to ask a few questions about something that I myself also commented on in my rapporteur's speech, and this is one of the differences that exist. In fact, unlike the proposal that was actually made on Bornholm, there is a maximum deposit, that is to say the 30,000 kroner. for each employee. In fact, you could also look at those who earn more than DKK 440,000. or so, and perhaps not so many people in the company do, but I suppose you could also raise that question when we are virtually reviewing the whole law here for open carpet and television and everything before it has been adopted otherwise. Could there not be common sense in removing the maximum limit, firstly because there are so few employees who come up in that price range, and secondly because it will be the case that those who are up in that price range typically have a progressive tax; so they also benefit from it, i.e. the tax that they do not pay, is greater because there is more tax on the last earned crown than there is on the first? So what's the reason we ended up right on that 30,000 kr?? Perhaps we could also choose that instead there was a lower percentage of income above that level, so for example. was 4% paid in?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113807	I understand the problem. It has been purely for fiscal reasons that we have not wanted to raise it further. We want this to be used and that it is used where it is to be used, but we are also very afraid, when you make this type of construction, that it is abused, and that is why we have set a ceiling in relation to the 30,000 DKK. I understand the problem. But again: as the questioner also mentioned, it is typically not very many employees that are specifically involved in contributing here. Whether some other conditions can then be agreed locally that, in addition to this, they will also have to contribute something else, one could then imagine on top of that why not? I'm just a little cautious about opening up here in relation to abuse of it. But, of course, we will be happy to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113901	There are no more brief comments to the Minister, so I can say thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth, and instead I welcome the Minister for Tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023113917	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you for a positive reception of the part of the bill which deals with the fiscal part of the employee investment companies. I have listened carefully to the very interesting debate and have heard comments on this part of the law, that is to say, draft law L 10 from Mr L 10. Brian Mikkelsen, from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and from Mrs Astrid Krag, and I will comment on that in a moment. Should there be any views from the rapporteurs on L 10, which I have not noticed, I am quite sure that the rapporteurs will draw my attention to this. I am pleased that the draft legislation on employee investment companies creates a solid foundation for the preservation of Danish jobs. The 3-year trial scheme with employee investment companies means that employees can invest wage funds in an employee investment company. The employee investment company invests the paid-in funds in the company in which the employee is employed, or in its suppliers or customers. Employee investment companies are also an innovation in fiscal terms. This and the draft law put forward by the Minister for Industry and Growth provide for the possibility of setting up employee investment companies, while at the same time providing for employee investment companies to be treated as public limited companies for tax purposes. Employees who choose to deposit funds in the employee investment company will be deducted from deposits of up to 7.5 per cent. of their salary, up to a maximum of 30,000 kroner. annual. The right of deduction allows the overall injection of more funds into the employee investment companies. In this way, I am pleased to note that correspondingly larger investments can be made for the benefit of Danish jobs. Employees will only be taxed when after a number of years the employee investment company is expected to repay the funds invested and any return on the investment. I would like to say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that I have taken note of the positive statement about the tax part, that is, L 10, where I could hear that there were some questions that need to be clarified on the proposal from the Minister for Industry and Growth, that is, L 16, so I would like to welcome the positive statement. From Mrs. Astrid Krag and Mr. Brian Mikkelsen raised questions. Mrs Astrid Krag asked directly for me to give you a calculation example, which also includes the alternative models that have been discussed and from Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's side is mentioned, on the one hand, the question of returns and, on the other hand, the question of employee bonds. As far as returns are concerned, it is the case that employees obtain a right of exception by paying into the employee investment company and therefore pay only labour market contributions. Thus, the circumstances are fundamentally different from a normal situation in which an employee invests already fully taxed funds. be in bonds or other. So we try to take an example of this: If an amount of DKK 15,000 is invested. corresponding to the post-tax amount of a salary payment of 25,000 DKK. by labour market contributions and a marginal tax rate of 40 in a bond with an interest rate of 5%. annually, then the return after 1 year is 750 DKK. before tax and 503 DKK. after capital income tax at a tax rate of 33 per cent. On the other hand, if you place the 25,000 kroner. before tax in an employee investment company with the same return before tax, the return before corporation tax of DKK 1,250 and after corporation tax of 22 per cent. 775 kr. According to the bill, this amount is to be taxed as personal income, 40% here, so that the return after tax will be DKK 585. So, the bottom amount in the two compared examples is DKK 503 if it is a normal investment, and if you invest through an employee investment company, the return is DKK 585. in this example, where everything else is equal. Under these conditions, the investment in an employee investment company is therefore slightly more favourable to tax than free savings. I think that answers the question raised by Mrs Astrid Krag. On the question of employee bonds, as Mr. Brian Mikkelsen and, as far as Mrs Astrid Krag was concerned, it is the case that the model of employee investment companies provides the individual company and employees with a flexible framework for targeted investments for the benefit of the company in question. This is in contrast to the previous Qualifying Employee Bond Schemes. The employees then obtained no influence on the company by virtue of the employee bonds. Of course, I must also stress, for the sake of good order, that the tax concession was abolished as part of the spring package 2.0 in 2009. With these comments, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and I look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023114517	We also thank the tax minister. His observations have not given rise to any brief comments, so the Minister of Taxation is free from this. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I therefore propose that Bill No. L 10 is referred to the Tax Committee and to Bill No. L 16 to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023114549	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Left, and this is Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023114617	When the nutrition letter system was introduced in July 2005, it was created because there were two objectives to be met: on the one hand, it was to ensure that the food industry had the necessary knowledge of the rules applicable throughout the food industry; on the other hand, we should have systematic infringements of the rules to be able to trigger a total penalty by way of possible withdrawal of the right to operate food business. Now we have chosen to evaluate that scheme, and this has been done in cooperation with both trade organisations and authorities, and let us just say that the result is that the scheme does not work as intended. It is, of course, the case that the scheme does not prevent companies from being able to commit systematic infringements or continue to do so. An example: The Pizzeria Yellow Rose at Vesterbro drew quite a lot of headlines in 2012 because they had many violations of food law. It ended with as many as 19 gross violations that were recorded, there were 7 acid smileys in one year, and there were 15 police reports. Yet the pizzeria was not closed by the authorities. Let us just say that this is at least a good example of the fact that there are some current rules that do not work too well. On the basis of evaluations and conclusions, it is now also part of the agreement on the growth package in 2014, where we have entered into an agreement in June that we abolish the Newsletter system. But, but, well, it is really, really good that we have some rules removed that do not work, not least when, at the same time, we remove claims and charges that burden businesses across the country. That's where we're positive. The evaluation also states that it is the case that the nutrition letter system has contributed to a more effective planning of the enforcement activities of SKAT, and it also shows that the police consider that the system has been simple and effective. So, on this basis, I think we should ensure that the police and the SKAT are not now completely removed from the possibility of getting an arrangement so that they can also come after those who violate the rules. So we look forward to hearing what comes as a replacement, which tools we then hand over to the police and the SKAT. But we will have to ask all these questions in committee. Bottomline is that we are pleased with debureaucratisation and we are pleased that we are removing something that does not work. You will have some questions, and then we will see how else the committee procedure is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023114921	I thank Mrs Anne-Mette Winther Christiansen. There are no brief comments so we can move on to the next rapporteur, and that is from the Socialists, Mr President. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023114932	Thank you, President. I'm really happy about this bill because we're proposing to abolish the Newsletter system. This removes economic and administrative burdens for food companies in Denmark. The history of the nutrition letter system was explained by the former rapporteur, and that is that it was introduced in 2005 and with the desire to provide the authorities with a cross-cutting tool in food control. However, at the request of the Enterprise Forum, the government launched an evaluation of the scheme in 2012. It shows that the nutrition note has only been used in very few cases and that the authorities already have the necessary legislative powers to carry out food control. Against this background, it is of course not appropriate to maintain a system that costs the food companies 500 kroner. a year and where there is a fee of 600 DKK. to take the nutritional test at all, and to do so we must add that it is expensive to administer for both the public and the economic operators. We need to get rid of unnecessary administrative trouble and trouble, and we need to spend the money better. It is also important from an international point of view that we abolish the nutrition note. You don't have this nutrition letter scheme in the countries with which Danish companies compete, and the extra financial and administrative burden obviously puts Danish companies at a disadvantage than companies in the rest of the EU. We think it is important to put an end to this. So we should welcome the process of eliminating trouble and hassle, and where the Business Forum in close cooperation with the business community comes with recordings to the government, so that we can create far better conditions for Danish food companies. The Socialists will continue to listen to the proposals that come from the Enterprise Forum. It is also important for me to stress that the abolition of the system will not mean a deterioration in food control. The evaluation of the scheme has just shown that the supervisory authorities are taking advantage of other possibilities provided for in the legislation. In other words, the authorities have continued to have the necessary tools, even though we are now abolishing the Newsletter system. At the Social Democrats we are working to give the Danish business community the best conditions for doing what they do best, namely to drive businesses as productively as possible and create good jobs. And we can only do that if we listen to companies, listen to where the growth-retardant measures are, and then we can ensure that business in everyday life has a much better framework for business. That is why the Socialists can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115204	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. There are no brief comments here either, and that is why I shall give the floor to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115214	This bill may go a little faster than the previous one, we would like to acknowledge that. However, it is the case that we have had an evaluation of the nutrition letter system, and it has shown that it has only been used to a limited extent, since the authorities mainly use control measures and penalties in the law, among other things. If there are serious examples, companies simply close down. So this bill, albeit one of the small ones, is about the removal of an administrative burden, and that is something that, of course, also removes a task from a lot of small businesses in this area of food business. The savings are those of just over 13 million. We are pleased that there is also a saving of about 10 million. kr. by removing the administrative burden from the Ministry. Of course, we support the proposal that has been made. We think this is sensible and we recommend it for adoption. I just have a clarification question that I promised to ask when we had it presented at our group meeting. It is that we would just like to have an information about the Nutrient Base itself, i.e. whether the Nutrient Base is also involved in the removal of the nutrition letter system, or whether there will continue to be a registration in this area. Otherwise, however, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115342	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There have been no brief comments here either, so we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115350	The government is in the process of removing unnecessary trouble and difficulties for the country's businesses. This bill to abolish the Newsletter system is part of that debureaucratisation. We ease the trouble of ensuring that you no longer need a nutrition note to run a food business. And even if we remove some bureaucracy, it is fortunately not the case that we are relaxing food safety. The control authorities usually use legislation from their own area to maintain security, and this has been important for the Radical Left. The bill is part of the government's growth agreement with V, K, DF, SF and Enhedslisten. It has received quite a positive reception from both the industry and stakeholders, and Radicals can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115438	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments here either, and then we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Steen Gade from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115446	Thank you. I will be brief: we can support the proposal. We in the committee, also in writing, will have the assurance from the Minister that action is being taken against food companies in accordance with existing laws and food safety. It is, of course, part of the prerequisites for the political agreement, which the SF has also agreed to here, and I would therefore like to have it brushed out before we finally adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115517	Thank you, sir. Steen Gade. Nor is there any brief comment to Mr. Steen Gade. I do not see any rapporteur from the Enhedslisten immediately, but I can reassure the Minister that I am aware that Enhedslisten will vote in favour of the bill. So that's good. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115538	The draft law we are discussing here is about the abolition of the Newsletter system. That arrangement was introduced in 2005 against the background of a number of food scandals that were up in the media, and the law was thus an expression of politicians who had to act. However, the nutritional letter system has had no effect other than imposing unnecessary costs on food businesses, and we can therefore fully support the removal of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115614	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no brief remarks there either, and then it is Mr. Brian Mikkelsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115626	Anything we can do to make life easier for businesses and for self-employed people, we must do. It is, after all, a fundamental view that we want to spoil small and medium-sized enterprises so that they have the opportunity to grow, so that they have the opportunity to employ people so that they can become stronger. So the process that is going on here, that it has to be a little easier to be a business and a little cheaper to be a business, so you don't have to pay a trial fee and don't have to pay a running fee to have a nutrition note, supports the Conservative People's Party. This makes life a tiny bit cheaper and easier for businesses, while at the same time having effective, hopefully, control in the food and tax sectors and the other areas which are of course important to this area. So the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115720	There are also no brief comments to Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, so I think we're trying to see if we can't handle the Minister of Business and Growth too before we take a lunch break.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115733	I am grateful for the positive reception of the proposal. I noted that the Left has asked a number of questions, including very relevant questions, in connection with the work of the committee and the further follow-up, in relation to what originally was the intention of the law and these, of course, I participate constructively in the work of the committee.Such as the Danish People's Party had questions about the Food Base and other matters, which I will also answer in connection with the work of the committee. But thank you for your support. It really reassured me that although the Enhedslisten has not been in the Chamber, the President has been able to reassure me by saying that they will also vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023115816	It is probably completely outside the role of the President to calm the ministers, but personally I am always very pleased to be able to do so. No one else has asked to speak on this matter, and that means that the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130015	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130047	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the floor. I must promise both the Minister, the rapporteurs and perhaps the worried officials that this will be significantly easier and a more painless operation than the one we had before lunch. This is a very sensible bill. The Left is pleased that the Minister has put it forward. Of course, we support this in relation to the growth package. In short, I think we owe it to us to tell you a little bit about what the bill is about. Today, the analytical power lies with the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority. Here we will take the analytical power and place it in a new competition council, a sharper, more powerful and independent competition council with a total of seven members. Then, of course, we can talk about who will sit there, but there are people with more stars on their shoulders than you are who will have the pleasure with the minister, of course. It's something else entirely. The Minister can of course still order analyses, take the lead in the work etc., but the independence around the Competition Council appeals to the Left and myself personally very much. That's why we're happy with the bill. The introduction of the law creates greater transparency in the work of the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency. Direct decisions are placed under the authority of the body and can be politically influenced. With the change with the Competition Council, we will therefore resolve these doubts and ensure that analyses are prepared independently of political interests. I and the Left think that is very important and interesting. As part of the conciliation circle, we are pleased that the government is taking note of companies' desire for more effective and more effective competition legislation and is serious about the desire expressed by several consultation parties. Competition between companies always benefits the individual consumer in our optics. It is important to bear in mind that we ensure that market failures are avoided, that we ensure that the right price for the right product is paid to consumers who may find it difficult to carry out an analysis on their own. It is important that we have a competition council to help with this. Healthy competition ensures the most optimal distribution of our goods, which the Left can only support. I should therefore like to express my thanks for the floor and say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130250	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130257	Thank you, sir. President. Healthy competition is, after all, when companies are pressured to keep making it a little smarter and constantly getting a little better. This is what drives our society forward, and healthy competition is essential for a well-functioning business that ultimately ensures low prices for consumers. We in the Socialists are working to create the right framework for having such healthy competition. That is why this proposal is being put forward to strengthen competition by means of more effective and more effective competition legislation. After all, the bill is an extension of the part of the growth agreement from June this year, when the government, together with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservatives, entered into an agreement on inter alia. This. Specifically, it is proposed that the current Competition Council be converted into a professional board of seven members. In a new and slimmer board members will be appointed on the basis of professional and theoretical knowledge, and this will give the Competition Council the necessary flexibility and expertise. In addition, it is proposed that the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority's analysis activities in the future should refer to the Competition Council rather than to the Minister for Industry and Growth. However, this is a legal requirement for applied practice, but it is nevertheless an important step in ensuring the legitimacy of the analyses. As the previous rapporteur said, it is also worth noting that the Minister can, of course, still ask for analyses to be carried out in certain areas. The draft law brings Danish competition law into line with the legislation of countries with which we usually compare, and is in line with the best practice in the EU. The consultation answers show that professional organisations can generally agree to the draft law, but that several have comments on the composition of the Council, in particular on the President of the Competition Council. Several organisations have expressed their desire for a court judge to chair the Competition Council. It is stated that it will strengthen legal certainty and the provision of evidence in the specific decisions. However, the role of the President of the Competition Council is not just to take a legal position on specific cases. The President also has to take a position on competition analyses and strategic measures in the field of competition, so these are not just purely legal assessments. And in order to ensure the necessary competence in the Council, we propose with the bill that the President and the Vice-President can only be appointed from among the four members with either legal or financial expertise. Moreover, it is made clear that this expertise should be of either a competitive economic or a competitive legal nature. Finally, I would like to say that the main element of the proposal is to create a good framework for the enforcement of competition law. We do this by transforming the Competition Council into a professional board, so that the council has the best possible conditions for fulfilling its task. For the Socialists, it is important to create healthy competition so that everyone can help push society forward and ensure that consumers do not pay too much for their goods and services. The Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130601	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130607	Like other legislative proposals being discussed today, this is part of a joint growth agreement between the government and various parties here in the Danish Parliament, and the Danish People's Party also has the pleasure of being part of this growth agreement. The present Competition Council is converted into a smaller and more manageable council. It is, of course, the case that the Council's effectiveness and independence have been constantly questioned in relation to the relatively large representation of industries and interest groups in the current 18-man council. From now on, the Competition Council will consist of seven members, all with a special competence in the legal, economic, theoretical expertise, i.e. people who are not specifically representatives of the trade and interest organisations. And in future there will be an advisory committee which will then be able to contribute input from outside to the Competition Council. It is a good thing that with this proposal there will also be a form of independence, which may be improved, compared to the fact that in future it will be the Competition and Consumer Authority which will refer to the Competition Council, and not, as now, directly to the Ministry of Industry and specifically to the Minister of Industry. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that this is a sensible bill. We also believe that it gives a better picture of what it really is that we should have in focus, and it is of course that the Competition Council is able to handle the tasks that they get without being accused of being biased or having special biased opinions. So we look forward to the process that is coming now and we hope it will be better. I only have one question, and that is in relation to the part that the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency will also be able to publish judgments where prison sentences are imposed in the future with this bill. It sounds quite voluminous, one might say; it is a violent measure, but it may be necessary. However, I am just wondering whether one might not consider that it will also be in those cases where it may not exactly be a prison sentence, but where there will be very high fines that people will get in connection with a possible anti-competitive case. At least I think that is common sense, because you don't have to end up in prison as a criminal; sometimes you end up in a fine. We also see this with cartels and other things, where Denmark also has companies that have been fined from the EU and elsewhere. Then we could not consider getting the very rough examples of fines under the same procedure with regard to publication on the Competition and Consumer Authority's website etc.? But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023130914	The bill we are discussing today aims to improve competition in Denmark, and this is of course important for us to have companies that are really good and up on our toes, and it is important to ensure consumers the best products and lowest prices. What we are doing with the bill is firstly to convert the Competition Council into a smaller and more professional body. And that is also where we are setting up an advisory committee, such as the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. can advise the Competition Council on the areas for which guidance should be analysed or made. And this consultative committee will be made up of, among other things: trade and interest organisations. Secondly, the Competition and Consumer Authority must refer to the Competition Council when preparing competition analyses. This is happening far along the way already today, and it is intended to ensure greater independence in the analysis activities of the board. The initiatives today are part of the government's growth agreement with the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives and the SF, and the Radical Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131021	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And we will proceed immediately to SF's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131028	Thank you for the floor. Other of my colleagues have reviewed the bill. I'll say we support the bill. We believe that a smaller competition council, which also has a more independent position, is right, including the fact that it is they who carry out a large number of analyses on their own responsibility, without the Minister being responsible for it, while of course the Minister can also order analyses. We believe that this is an improvement and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131104	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Sarah Nørris.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131111	I am speaking on behalf of Stine Brix, our business rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today. It will therefore also be ultra-short. There are five amendments to the Competition Act. We think that several of the measures are sensible, for example. In order to ensure that judgments and prison sentences can be published in the future, and to ensure that the Danish competition authorities can exchange information with, inter alia, the Danish competition authorities. Greenland and the Faroe Islands. But there are two things we are very critical of. Firstly, we do not agree that consumer considerations should not be represented in the Competition Council, and that is why we do not support the proposal to create a board of directors where consumers are not represented. Secondly, we are critical of the fact that the Minister is no longer responsible for the competition analyses. That is why we are voting against the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131159	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131206	The aim of this bill is to increase competition by means of a more applicable competition law. The draft law converts the current Competition Council, which today consists of 18 members, into a professional board of 7 members. An Advisory Committee is also set up to contribute to the Competition Council. We think it is a sensible bill with good intentions, which is basically that we will have better competition in Denmark for the benefit of consumers. We can warmly support that. We have noted, however, that some of the answers to the questions raised raise a number of questions, such as: Danske Lawyers' hearing answer, where there are some concerns about legal certainty in this bill. They are particularly concerned about the division of powers envisaged in Paragraph 15, and we would naturally like the Minister's answer to what the Minister thinks about the concerns about legal certainty. However, I would like to emphasise that we are very positive about this bill and we also expect that we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131338	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it's the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131344	The Conservative People's Party can support the proposal. We shall be slimming down the current competition council, which in many respects, I think, has proved to be effective and also agenda-setting, but has been too large a body to have really been able to be effective. The idea of a Board of Competition and Consumer Protection seems to me to be a good one, but it is important, as several have also pointed out, when you read such consultation contributions and some of the inquiries I have received, that there will be a real opportunity for the board both to have autonomy but also to have real influence in setting things in motion and in relation to being in the dialogue that is so important for ongoing cases. But a board of directors is a good idea. Then there is the question of the advisory committee. I think it is a sensible design and a smart way of getting the parties, the organisations, involved in this. This is probably important when you read the legislative text and some of the comments that are that you sort out what the consultative committee is supposed to do. There have been ideas that one should meet at least a few times a year and that the chairman of the board should meet with the advisory committee, etc. All this has to be discussed. It is difficult to take a political position on this. But it is important that when you make such an advisory committee, which I think is a very good idea, you make sure that they get some real pondus and some real competence, because the intention is to use them to go in and look at the competition cases and get some input and dialogue so that it can go in the best possible way. And there it is a little diffuse what the consultative committee should actually complete by function. But we support it, think it is a very good idea, but would have put a little more matter and content into it. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131529	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. And then the Minister for Business and Growth has the opportunity to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131536	I should like to remind you of this, President, and thank them all, except for one person who was not fully involved, as far as I understood. But otherwise I would like to thank you for a great deal of support for the bill. I would also like to promise that the issues that have been raised include: on the Danish People's Party's side regarding the publication of various judgments, and what conditions there should be for it, we are looking at, certainly. I would like to say the same to the Liberal Alliance: the questions of legal certainty raised in connection with the consultation answer are also being looked at. Well, of course, all questions will be answered properly. I am not sure that I can fully explain how we will finally ensure that this advisory committee gets the necessary pondus, but we must try to do so anyway, so that the Conservatives too are involved. Then I am glad that all the parties of the Danish Parliament minus Enhedslisten and I understand that it was Enhedslisten's maiden speech today could be included. I understood that one of EL's reasons was that the responsibility for a number of analyses would be removed. That is one of the things that really warms the Minister, I would say. However, I hope that we will be able to play our part in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131707	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131726	The debate is open, and I give the floor first to Mr Van der Klaauw. Hans Christian Thoning from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131743	Thank you for that, President. The potential of Danish tourism is very large and we generally exploit too little of that potential. Therefore, there is a need to create a stronger organisation of Danish tourism so that we can create growth and jobs for the benefit of Denmark. That is why we in the Left are satisfied with the draft law as a starting point. However, we have a few comments to make. There is generally too low representation of businessmen in the National Tourism Forum and in the Advisory Board. The Left is unaware of why not all three development companies, i.e. coastal and natural tourism, business and meeting tourism and urban tourism, are represented in the National Tourism Forum. We are concerned that the industry will not have enough influence on the future strategy for tourism, which would otherwise be appropriate, since it is precisely the industry that is generating growth, and not the ministries. In addition, we are concerned that the municipalities will have enough influence in relation to the regions. Municipalities play a crucial role in creating growth and creating jobs in Danish tourism. The municipalities constitute a practical link that we must not forget in the overall organisation. The many consultations also suggest that this is precisely a general wish of the respondents. A great deal of attention should be paid to this issue. In the Left, we hope that the law can help to maintain the positive developments shown by the new VisitDenmark figures. It is important for Denmark that we invest in Danish tourism so that we can create increased turnover and more jobs. It will also help to create a better balance for Denmark. But despite the fact that we believe that the industry is too little represented in both the National Tourism Forum and the Advisory Board, we believe that the bill can strengthen Danish tourism in the future. That is why the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131942	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I give the floor to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023131952	Thank you. Tourism is an important industry for Denmark; it has been under-priority for far too long, despite the fact that it accounts for 120,000 full-time jobs distributed throughout the country. And tourism has the potential to create even more growth and even more jobs if it gets the right conditions. Despite promises to the contrary, Danish tourism never entered the warmth of business policy during the 00s, and much growth potential is wasted on that account. It's changed now. As the first government, we take tourism seriously. We made it part of our government base to strengthen the conditions of Danish tourism, and we have created a growth plan for Danish tourism, which allocates the necessary resources. Now we have a comprehensive tourism law to give the industry a better and more effective framework. The tourism industry deserves to be taken seriously. In short, the Tourism Act must make our tourism efforts more effective. Until now, work has been done to strengthen Danish tourism in many directions. Various interventions in the state, regions and municipalities and in the industry itself have had no common platform or reference framework. There have been problems in coordinating work. With the law we create the framework for more efficient management and organisation of Danish tourism, where resources are used in the best way. In short, we are creating the framework for better and more tourism in this country. The bill introduces a national tourism forum to coordinate tourism promotion in Denmark. Based on a national strategy in this area, we will create a common compass to develop Danish tourism by 2020. At the same time, we set up the Danish Tourism Advisory Board to advise the National Tourism Forum. Here are a number of representatives of relevant organisations in the industry and the social partners. It is important for us Socialists that we involve the people and organisations who work with tourism on a daily basis. This brings together the expertise and ideas of different parts of the profession in the Joint Advisory Board. In addition to the new forum and the new Advisory Board, we set up three regional development companies. They must work to strengthen coastal and natural tourism, business and meeting tourism and urban tourism. But why even make a definite law for tourism? Yeah, we spend 1⁄2 billion a year. kr. by the public authorities to strengthen tourism. It is money that can now create greater impact. It's common sense to get more for the money. Tourism has the great advantage of being an industry with jobs in, for unskilled as well as academics, in cities as well as in rural areas. For good reason, jobs cannot be moved abroad. In an historic time when we have lost more production jobs, it makes very good sense to invest in an industry that delivers jobs that stays in this country. The growth plan for Danish tourism has been adopted by a broad political majority. I am personally pleased that we have a government that wants broad agreements and conciliation. It is a gain for democracy. The law will lead to a more effective use of funds in the public tourism promotion effort. This has been needed for a long time, and we Social Democrats can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023132424	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023132431	The draft law, which has now come to parliament after a long period of laborious work and many negotiations, is, after all, a bill backed by a quite massive majority in this Parliament. In the Danish People's Party we are of the clear conviction that the tourism industry is therefore one of the professions on which we need to focus extra attention in the coming years. This is something we have said many times; indeed we have even proposed that we should have a Minister for Tourism who had this area entirely as its own, because it is the fourth largest industry in Denmark. As Mrs Julie Skovsby said earlier, there are 120,000 full-time jobs, if you convert it, in this industry. At the same time, it is some jobs that are often carried out by people with a lesser degree of education, and it is also some jobs that are very geographically spread in Denmark. It is a very good thing for Danish society that we have such a profession in Denmark, and we also have to try to do that is also what we do with this bill to make it even more attractive to invest in developing Danish tourism. It was also mentioned here earlier that, as far as this bill is concerned, we are concerned, among other things. is given the first comprehensive tourism law for Denmark. This is something that has been in demand from several sides for several years, and it is true that the current government is then the one that has succeeded in achieving a common agreement in this area. In the Danish People's Party we are also excited to see what this will have with long-term consequences. Will this bring some noticeable changes of a positive nature? Will we be able to look forward to the Danish tourism being more attractive to foreign guests in particular, but of course also to Danes, so that more people choose to spend their summer holidays and their savings for holidays in Denmark, if that is possible? It is also suggested here that there will be an annual report from the Minister for Business and Growth to take stock of the implementation of this bill and the concrete initiatives that lie in it, among other things. the new structure throughout the tourism sector with the National Tourism Forum and this Advisory Board, which will then advise, and finally, of course also the development companies which will develop the Danish tourism strategy in each of their areas. Danish coastal and natural tourism is one of the places where we have had a great many turnover crowns and a great many visitors, including foreign tourists, but where you have also been able to see that it has been under pressure in recent years. We in the Danish People's Party certainly welcome the fact that we can look forward to a better use of the many good things we have in Denmark in terms of our coastal and natural tourism. Finally, I think that there is a reason today to raise the flag of our business, conference and meeting tourism, especially in view of the fact that we have had the discussion here in the Danish Parliament many times, among other things. In 2011, I think it was. I myself was rapporteur on a motion for a resolution on the removal of the last part of hotel VAT on business nights, on which there is VAT, because it can help to increase the degree of international courses and seminars and conferences being held in Denmark. Now it is part of the government's plan and part of what has become reality, and we are, of course, very pleased that it now also means that Danish companies in this area, i.e. hotels and conference centres, can start to compete more at international level too, so that we do not suffer from the very great diversity that has been in relation to the costs. For example, it has been more economical to choose to hold conferences in Stockholm or in Berlin or elsewhere, at least in Germany and Sweden and also in other European countries. Then we also have urban tourism, which is something very special. I am also glad, of course, that we have extremely many of these visits by large ships with many people. Some say so well that they buy too little when they finally come ashore. We must then try to make them stay a little further at a time so that they can buy more. But on the other hand, I also think that I am one of them. has been told today that it is the border controls of Copenhagen Airports... police officers... who are responsible for the checks on these big ships. So perhaps we should also look at whether there could be a little better control in this respect. But overall, it is a tourism plan which I think we can all be familiar with. I think it is good; I think it has a lot of good things to do with it. We have been a little concerned about this with the three development companies, because it may well be that there will be this discussion here, where we are beginning to war a little about the money, in other words whether the money should be spent on coastal tourism or on business tourism or on urban tourism. Perhaps some people think that we are placing the money in the wrong place, typically where they have not been at their disposal, and then some conflicts can arise, one might say. But that is one of the things that will be included in the annual statement that we will have. Now I can see that my speaking time has been spent, but I would also like to say, in relation to this statement that we are being given on the implementation of the national strategy, whether the Minister will, just for the sake of security, confirm now, after the rapporteur's round, that there will of course also be a consultation of the parties involved on the political side, so that we can also see from the political side of the statement whether things are going as they should in the area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023133038	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023133043	Tourism is one of the things we must live on in the future. The beautiful Danish coasts, the Danish nature and our open landscapes are things that attract a lot of people to Denmark. But also our cities • especially our capital city, Copenhagen • draws many thousands of tourists each year. But tourism is also an area that we have been talking about for a long time and which can be dealt with a great deal. That is why the government has done a great deal of work in the way we are now working, and it is precisely by involving society and the actors and those who know something about it, in order to discuss with them how we can create Danish jobs and income for our welfare community by making an even better tourism effort. The government therefore set up a Growth Team for Tourism and Experience Economy, and it was discussed how we get more tourists to Denmark and how we can get those who come here to spend a little more money when they are still in the country. We radicals believe that Denmark should dare to rely on the positions of strength that we have. In Denmark we should not be able to offer everything, but what we offer must be of high quality and something we are very good at. That is why we have helped to ensure that the growth plan and the subsequent growth agreement, which have been made with a very broad political majority, focus in particular on three areas: coastal and nature tourism, urban tourism and business and meeting tourism. In addition, we have secured 100% from the government. VAT deduction on hotel nights, which the hotel industry has wanted for many years. With the bill here, we are now addressing the public part of the work to promote tourism in Denmark. Firstly, we are setting up a national tourism forum to manage and coordinate public tourism efforts. The Tourism Forum will draw up a national strategy with key priorities and objectives for Danish tourism. The National Tourism Forum should also be consulted on the strategies of the three development companies, and development companies should report on the development efforts to this forum. The Tourism Forum then prepares an annual progress report for the Minister for Business and Growth, which describes the work to promote strategic action. Secondly, we are setting up the Danish Tourism Advisory Board to advise the National Tourism Forum, and it is becoming even wider so that we can get even more perspectives and important views into the work on tourism. It consists of a lot of organisations and ministries that have specific knowledge in the field of tourism. Thirdly, we are bringing together the efforts of the three regional development companies to focus their efforts on the three focus areas mentioned: coastal and nature tourism, urban tourism and business and meeting tourism. The Radical Left believes these are important and good measures, and we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023133345	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then we go to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023133352	Thank you. Others have said, and I would also like to say that tourism is an important industry. It is actually bigger and therefore more important than we go and talk about every day, and others have emphasized that too. I would also like to stress that it is a profession where there are many job opportunities for unskilled people. One of the problems we have in society is that we actually find it difficult to find jobs for unskilled people. And it is also a profession that provides a great many jobs in what some somewhat scoffingly call Udkantsdanmark. Now I'm elected there, so I don't usually use that word but I do it for the sake of understanding. So it is an important profession and important to prioritise, and that is actually what is happening with the bill here. We will therefore have the first law on Danish tourism when this is adopted. We have gone to these negotiations to make this legislation with two basic points. One is that action must be made more effective. We must be honest here and say that there has been too much mute and too much competition between all the players in this area. As a result, you may have been happy with what you did yourself, but have also wasted a lot of money and effort. And we have also competed against each other in a way that is totally inappropriate. This is one of the things that I hope will be repaired a lot here. The second basic view is about getting a view of Denmark as a green nation, a Denmark that is committed to sustainability. This is an important part of an enterprise policy in relation to tourism. Both of these things have come in a reasonable way. However, I should like to say, and perhaps I should like to put it positively, that I want the National Tourism Forum, which is now being created, to be strong, also because we do not need to have competition between coastal and natural tourism, business and meeting tourism and urban tourism. In fact, that is what we need a strong national tourism forum to ensure that does not happen. The advisory board will then have to provide the width, and here it is important that all joint municipalities, regions, the state and the organisations associated with it find their place in a joint cooperation and not in a competition. And my call to the Minister is that this will be the spirit in which we are implementing this. Finally, I should just like to stress that if we had continued the negotiations a little longer, perhaps we could have done better and a little more clearly in a few places, for example. the clarification of urban tourism. It's left to Wonderful Copenhagen to negotiate with other big cities about this. We could have done a little better if I could put it that way. We can then see if we can agree in committee to repair it a little. SF stands by this joint agreement, but it must also be said from time to time that even if you are part of an agreement, there are places where it might have been a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023133723	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Sarah Nørris.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023133731	Thank you. In Enhedslisten we are very happy to participate in the work of developing the Danish tourism effort. There is no doubt that we are talking about very, very many jobs throughout the country and, above all, in some of our truly scenic areas. We are particularly pleased that the Minister has listened to Enhedslisten and has now included in the comments that a standard should be developed for Danish quality tourism, as well as including references to rural tourism as a special form of tourism. When we are very concerned about developing a standard of quality tourism, it is because we believe and hope that it will pave the way for the dissemination of a quality standard for all forms of tourism. Just as hotels and campsites have their star systems, which we all know, it would be very clever if the tourists who visit our country, including Danes who travel around their own country as tourists, were made aware in advance of what standard they can expect at the specific tourist destination. Not least, our disabled citizens will be able to benefit greatly from the development of standards in this area. Such standards with associated certifications must, of course, include accessibility requirements, and it is equally natural that it should not be possible to achieve the highest score and thus a certificate if there is no proper availability for our disabled fellow citizens. As you know, the United Nations has just been following Denmark in order not to comply with the UN Disability Convention in terms of accessibility in a number of areas, so there is no reason why, in the field of tourism, we should not put ourselves at the forefront of accessibility requirements. The development of quality standards will undoubtedly lead to a more transparent sector in which quality is competing in all the diverse forms of tourism. It is important for rural tourism to be mentioned in the comments. Farm holidays are many things, but rural tourism actually embraces more forms of tourism • cycling, nature tourism, not to be confused with naturalism, active holidays and much more. Therefore, rural tourism also falls easily between several chairs. Now it has been mentioned, and then we hope, and I also hope, that it will be taken seriously in several different stages of the tourism effort that this particular draft law establishes. However, we are very concerned that attempts are being made to dispense with the law on plans, the beach protection lines and coastal zones. Some sort of campaign has been going on for a long time to open up the door for everyone to come to our coastal areas. In the Enhedslisten we believe that we should be very careful to experiment with the pristine shores and our nature. Lots of examples from abroad also scare, and if there is something that tourists come to Denmark for, it is not least our pristine nature and the beautiful untouched coastlines, especially where we have also come on the UNESCO World Heritage List. In this case, however, the Enhedslisten has become part of the good company, and we are grateful for this and we are therefore voting in favour of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023134028	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it's the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023134032	The Liberal Alliance is not quite a part of the good company here, and it is not, in fact, because we do not want to be. Nor is it an indication that we do not believe that tourism is important, because we do so very much. There is enormous potential in the tourism industry. Today, there are already over 100,000 people employed in the tourism industry in Denmark and, as I said, we believe it has great potential. But that requires politicians to be more willing to take up where it really hurts, and we do not think that this agreement does. It is an agreement based on the view that growth and quality in the tourism industry are created by the politicians in here at Christiansborg, and that is therefore not a position that we agree with. The agreement directly states that Denmark cannot compete on price, but it does not contain initiatives that could actually bring down costs. For the costs it is true that we have to invest in quality in Denmark, but many countries actually do, especially many of the countries around Denmark. We therefore believe that there should have been much more focus on reducing costs for the tourism industry, so that we could be a little more competitive in relation to the price, because this is an extremely important parameter. The agreement is permeated by the fact that it is like the public sector that has to boost the tourism industry. When you read the bill, you can see that it is about creating a stronger organisation and governance of public tourism efforts. A National Tourism Forum is to be set up to coordinate and manage public tourism efforts. I would like to stress that it is, of course, a good thing to try to coordinate and manage these efforts better, but again it is basically not from in here that the task of lifting the tourism industry must be solved. It must therefore be resolved by ensuring from here that proper framework conditions are in place to enable it to be lifted. We would have liked to have seen a general reduction in VAT, not only in hotels but also in restaurants. That's some of what's really expensive in Denmark. So, although we share the ambition to strengthen the industry, we do not think this is the right way to tackle it. It's a little jump on the spot. It gets wrapped up in very big words. It is not all that is bad, but it is too unambitious in our view. That is why we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023134325	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, if he can get out of the chairs: sir. Brian Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023134339	Tourism is one of our most important industries. We've been talking about the importance of the Danish economy to the Danish economy if we put all of it together. 120,000 employees in the industry. But the interesting thing about tourism is that it is jobs that stay in Denmark. When we talk about how we invest in everything from wind turbines to design to all sorts of other industrial jobs, it is some who are constantly exposed to competition that makes it possible to move jobs. But tourism jobs will be in Denmark, and it is all parts of Denmark that benefit from the tourism jobs. And that's all, all types of labor, from highly educated to low-educated to bluecollar and whitecollar etc. So it is win-win for everyone if you focus on a tourism policy. I have noted that the government's rapporteurs, particularly the Socialist rapporteur, are not really the radical rapporteur, but the Socialist rapporteur is constantly talking about history. I'm thinking, 'Ah, should you ignore it now, should you not?' And every time they're on TV, we hear some socialist rapporteur telling us how bad life was in the old days, in the '00s. Everything was horrible, life. Well, we were in the Stone Age, almost. I could hear the same from the Social Democratic e-rapporteur here. There was no tourism policy and nothing happened in the tourism sector at all. I could use all my speaking time here to explain that we had a tourism policy and that we were able to adopt proposals that even the Social Democratic Party helped to support in the '00s. So the Social Democrats thought it was a good tourism policy that we conducted in the '00s. We got a lot of things done and also put together some of the organisations that had not been assembled before, and that is a very good preamble to the agreement that has been made here and which I think is quite good. So it builds up for it. Enough about the storywriting. But there was also a life in the 00s, I can say to the Socialist rapporteur. There was also a sensible tourism policy, because it was quite well done in that area too. So, what are some positive things here? Yes, the better and more effective organisation of the whole effort has been necessary. It has been fragmented in relation to both regions and different professions, in other words, what should be invested in the whole of the tourism sector. It is clear that there has been such a typical Copenhagen province clash, a coastal tourism-summerhouse-clash, etc. However, the fact that a platform with a national tourism forum is now being created to coordinate a new national strategy is right, very sensible. That is also the way forward. In a tiny country with 51⁄2 million inhabitants, it is therefore important to coordinate it. There's one thing I think you don't know about a tiny little bit. The rapporteur of the Left has also mentioned this, and it is also something that the industry is very aware of when I talk to them. And I do not understand why this was not given the last boost; we tried it during the negotiations and also at the very last meeting. We stand by what has been agreed here and which is quite good, but I do not think there is quite a recognition that Danish tourism policy is being conducted by private companies. It is not the state's pennies that matter to tourism policy. It's change, change, change. What matters is the efforts made by the hotels, the restaurants, the shops and what you do, also regionally and locally. What we put in at national level is nothing. In the proposal itself, in the design itself, I think, the emphasis should have been placed on a closer relationship with private companies, both in relation to the representation itself and what we tried to do, as I said, and not quite succeeded, but what has been agreed is okay and in the very perception of what private companies mean for the tourism effort itself. There would be no tourism effort in Denmark if the hotels did not do anything if the restaurants did not do something if the shops did not do something. Then there was no tourism effort in Denmark. That is why it should be the basis for all the efforts that are being made in this area, and I do not think that this has been entirely a priority. This is one of the things that we would certainly like to continue to work on, even in the near future. But when you look at the bottom line, and when you look at the contents of it, it is an improvement compared to what is today. It is a good agreement made by a constructive minister and therefore the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023134810	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Industry and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023134823	Once again, I should like to thank a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament for supporting a legislative proposal. I have to say about tourism that not so many years ago it may of course be back in the dark 00s, I shall not be able to quite decide it was the case that tourism and talking about it, that is tourism policy, was something for the southern European countries where the sun shines much more than up here. But when you saw at one point in earnest how much tourism actually fills up in Denmark and has always filled, and what potential there is, it is all of a sudden that you have reason to take this much more seriously and much more seriously. Tourism turnover can be estimated at around 87 billion. kr. There are 120,000 people employed. And if you look at the potential out there in the world, you will see that in 1950 there were about 25 million tourists worldwide, and in 2013 the figure has grown to over 1 billion. One can look at the rest of the world and the improvement in the form of wealth search that the world has virtually and fortunately got, apart from certain areas. Hundreds of millions of people are being moved into the middle class. The people also want to go out and experience the rest of the world and also want to go out and be tourists and also want to go to Denmark and Scandinavia. It is, of course, a huge opportunity for us to have a share in that whole boom and to have the opportunity to develop an industry even more and earn even more money. That's just good. It creates a lot of employment at home. It is also, as has been said by a large number of the rapporteurs, precisely because it is here on the spot. It is in connection with the jobs we create here in Denmark that we can service the tourists. It is therefore very good that a broad, broad majority in the Folketing is behind making Denmark's first law in this area. What we are doing with that law is, of course, that we coordinate public action in this area, because it has been called for in many places because it went in different directions. I fully agree that those who actually run the profession are the private ones, and it must continue to do so, and it must finally continue to do so. However, the fact that we in the public authorities are making sure that things are coordinated so that we have the opportunity to do so properly is a very good thing, which has been called for quite, quite a lot. So that is what we are addressing, and I look forward very much to it being launched. There is a natural division in that some take care of business tourists, some take care of city tourists, and others take care of coastal tourists. It's functional, and it's common sense. In fact, I think that, in relation to the representation of the various boards, we have found a proper balance. I have heard that there are some who would like to bring a little more businessmen, and some would like to have some more employees' representatives with them. I do not know, then, that there are also some who want some more municipalities with and some more regions with and such a little backwards. But I really think that we have landed it very, very sensible. I would like to thank all the parties that have been involved in this cooperation for their constructive approach to this. This isn't something we have to be ideological about. This is something that we do for the joy and benefit of Denmark. This legislation should be. So, of course, all the issues that may be involved and all the good and constructive proposals at the stage of the third reading, we welcome them with a kissing hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023135221	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Growth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023135242	First of all, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023135312	Denmark has 74,366 km of public roads. Of this 3,797 km is administered by the State and the 70.569 km by the municipalities. A well-maintained road network with good visibility is essential for growth and job creation across the country. It is essential for us to have a Denmark in a fairly good balance. The current road legislation consists of as many as four laws. With this law, we simplify legislation so that in future there will be only two main laws: the Road Act and the Private Road Act. In addition, there is a simplification of the rules on road toll charges and in relation to allowing signs to be erected, etc. along the road. In addition, the draft law provides for administrative simplification of private common roads. The Left very much welcomes this simplification; so far we have seen too much bureaucracy, for example. in connection with the display of signs such as those with the text playful children known from villa roads, or temporary signage in connection with major events, etc. We need to get rid of this so that citizens and associations are not unnecessarily burdened. A key theme of this bill is to ensure better accessibility on existing roads. It is a problem that in Copenhagen there are plenty of long-term digging in the streets of the city with increased congestion and waste of time. This kind of thing costs society a lot of money. It can and must be done better so that car availability improves in cities as well. Today, there is no or only modest coordination of digging work that is often open for too long. This is being changed by this bill, which provides tools for better coordination of road and digging work, for example. in the form of co-excavation and better management of the wiring workers. In addition, it provides for the road authorities to be able to impose a fine if the digging work on the roadway is not completed at a reasonable, agreed time, and I would like to stress that the aim of this fine is not to get money in the municipal or state treasury. The aim is to provide an incentive for us to complete the mobility-retardant digging work in the future within a reasonable period of time. Of course, in relation to contractors, account must be taken of special circumstances such as extreme weather conditions or the like, so that you can not be fined. In connection with the work of the committee, the Left will ask some questions so that we have this important balance between the presence on the road and the necessary digging work unveiled and clarified. Because, of course, there is a need to dig in the roads. It must only be better coordinated and not take longer than is necessary. In this way, we will have better visibility on the roads. I also very much welcome the fact that the bill ensures better cross-border traffic. Not least in the metropolitan area, with its many municipalities, there is a great need for joint traffic management centres to ensure green waves and better propulsion on the roads. Then, on the other hand, there is one thing in the bill that the Left is sceptical about. We are sceptical about § 134, which is about the government proposing that fees for the processing of digging permits, etc. can now be charged. It is not the policy of the Left to impose new burdens and costs on business, including cable owners. If it becomes more expensive, it can actually be counterproductive in relation to having the roll-out, for example. the broadband network in Denmark. We have also noted that many of the consultations express agreement with this view. We would therefore ask the Minister to raise this matter of fees for a political discussion during the committee procedure. However, in summary, the Left can support the bill and, of course, we respect the vote agreement reached in connection with the traffic agreement of June 2014. However, as I have said, we want clarification of the terms of fines and the removal of the proposed fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023135741	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we go to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023135757	It is quite clear that the Left Transport Rapporteur has exceptionally many kilometres in his legs. It is therefore also difficult to add quite a lot to this draft law in relation to its content than what the rapporteur of the Left has already said very well. I would point out, however, that the current road laws came into force on 1 April 1972. It's two years and a half months before I was born. So you can say that even though I think I'm still a lot young, the law is probably about to be discovered, something new is going to happen. It is important that we have a legislative proposal that is more contemporary, more accessible and easier to understand. I think we all know the problem, the challenge, that we are on the road, and then there is roadwork again. We just think that there had been road work, that there had been queues, then it had finally been settled, but a few months later the road has broken up again, you start again. This kind of lack of coordination, this kind of lack of timing in road work, is one of the things we are making up for with this bill. We ensure that it is better organized, better coordinated, so that when you are going to do some road work, you ensure that everything is done at the same time so that everything is done. Even if there are delays in road work, this proposal for a directive will allow us to intervene. There is a possibility of giving the contractors involved a penance so that they have an economic incentive to complete their work as soon as possible. Finally, there is one element of this law which gives municipalities the opportunity to differentiate in relation to, for example: the parking charge, so it can be said that environmentally friendly cars, for example. electric cars, can park cheaper or free. It is therefore possible for the municipalities themselves to organise a more green profile on the traffic. The Left rapporteur mentioned it with the sign. It is also a step in the right direction where there will be more freedom. Finally, there must be less bureaucracy, less municipal administration, so that the municipalities can decide for themselves the areas where they think that, as traders or as restaurateurs, it can be dealt with by whether there should be non-servation or there should be stands outside or otherwise for as long as the rules have been complied with. You don't have to sit and write an application. It also helps to make it easier, simpler and straightforward. The telecommunications industry has been a little unsure whether this proposal would make it more difficult for them to be charged with expenses they would not otherwise have had. There I can mention that it is the case that the so-called guest principle is being continued in the current form, so no one is put at a disadvantage in relation to these things. But it is clear that if there are people who have concerns or things they would like to have investigated, then we are always open to having a look at it. This is something for which there is broad support, and we have only the intention that it should be simpler, it should be more citizen-friendly. If there are cracks on the road, if you may say so, then we are prepared to get rid of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140128	Thank you to the Social Democrats' rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140137	Thank you. We need a new road law. As Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned the previous one from 1972, shortly before Mr. Unfortunately, Rasmus Prehn was born several years after I was born. But that should not prevent me from helping to think that it is a very good idea to get a new road law. First Vice-President I'm not saying anything! ) It is true, as others have also said, that this is a simplification in which we cut down from four laws in the road area to two laws. One of the things that, of course, is really good about this is the point of comprehension. We see these hopeless diggings, and you almost just get to cover it up and put on new asphalt and cover these sewers, and there are some who think there should be some wires down there, and then you dig up the whole thing again. And in the meantime, people can't come forward or back. This is, of course, primarily a big city problem, but there it is also a problem that I am glad this law is being taken care of. With regard to the payment of fines too, it is of course a good thing, with this reasonable consideration for the contractors, so of course they also have the opportunity to do the work. I don't want it to be. I think it was sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who mentioned it, was another money machine for the state. But it's good that there's a little brake on just leaving these holes wide open for months and six months. With regard to the promotion of green traffic, which is also mentioned in the draft law, I am perhaps less enthusiastic. I do not think that this will be what makes us vote against the draft law, but why the hell should we favour electric cars, which are actually relatively few already, by being exempt from duty? And then I don't know that I haven't been able to read about what is meant by other green vehicles, but I think we can get that out of committee work. I have a small car myself, so it would be nice if I could start parking for free on that background. However, I think it might be a bit biased if we are going to favour certain types of vehicles in relation to whether or not to pay. We do, of course, have parking spaces for disabled people, that is entirely appropriate, but that we also need to favour other types of vehicles, including electric cars, we may not like much. So we look forward to the continued work of the committee and we will reach each other, I have no doubt about that, but there are a few questions we would like answers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140415	Sir. Rasmus Prehn has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140418	Thank you for sir. Kim Christiansen's support for the bill. With regard to the green profile and electric cars, I should like to know whether it is not true that what is proposed here is not that we decide that someone should be favoured, but that municipal autonomy can decide what they think is important in terms of having a green profile. So it is not a matter of us deciding something, but of giving the municipalities more room for manoeuvre. Isn't it very good with a little more municipal autonomy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140449	I do not necessarily feel any more comfortable from the fact that we are putting it to the municipalities. But it is true that this is the intention of the draft law, that is to say that it is possible to give municipalities authority to favour green vehicles. But that is why I am still concerned about doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140505	Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140507	Then we were stressed that the Danish People's Party is not so enthusiastic about local self-government or about green solutions and electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140516	I don't know what, sir. Rasmus Prehn was confirmed in, but that was certainly not what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140522	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then we go to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Mie Bergmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140534	The radical rapporteur has been prevented today, and that is why I have been allowed to give his speech. The Radical Left is always concerned about how the legislation here at Christiansborg can become simpler, so that less money and resources are spent on bureaucracy and administration. The bill here writes a lot of laws together and reduces the burden for the municipalities, which manage most roads here in Denmark. That the burdens in the municipalities are getting smaller, we are satisfied with, or as we say in North Jutland we are quite comfortable with that. The bill also implements some of the recommendations we received from the Tribulation Commission. Everywhere in Denmark, many car cows are created because there is road work. There will now be an opportunity to pay a fine when road work is delayed, and we like that, i.e. a deadline is a deadline, because it will give more focus on keeping to the timetables so that they can be finished on time and therefore the traffic can slip again. Sometimes you find that the same road is closed again; there is dug, then it is finished, and then one more digging. It's kind of a standing joke out there. It would be good if things could be different in the future, that is, that the law now ensures that it must be coordinated so that it is co-bugged. In this way the different things can be arranged at the same time so that the road can be closed for as little time as possible. In the past, it has also been included in the bill that municipalities could charge for digging permits. This is not part of the bill, and it is to our great pleasure. Time and again we hear from rural areas that there is a lack of Internet and mobile coverage, and that is a problem. One way of resolving this is not to put obstacles against the telecommunications companies when it comes to digging down cables. A fee for digging permits would be such an obstacle; this would result in much fewer cables being laid down. About 100,000 digging permits are granted per year, so it would certainly hinder investment in the digital infrastructure if such a fee were included. In the Radical Left, we are pleased that this fee is not part of the bill we are discussing today. The bill here will reduce the congestion, ensure good framework conditions for roll-out of the digital infrastructure and reduce the administration in the municipalities, and the Radical Left can therefore be happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140814	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023140826	In 1972 we became a member of the European Community when they mentioned all the things that happened in 1972. But it is rare to be subjected to legislation of this nature which has survived so long, and it is also impressive to see how wrinkled it has really happened without us really reacting to it. A few years ago I drove by a taxi driver past the new building of Denmark's Radio, and he told me that within the last two years, I think, the area had been dug up, laid on and paved and dug up, laid on and paved. In addition to the fact that it affects the appearance, it is expensive. Well, it's expensive to dig up; it's expensive to get those contractors out and so on, so that's all in all a saving. So we welcome the bill. Then I have just one thing to say to Mr. Simpson. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. The fees were apparently one of the stumbling blocks, but the fees are imposed, as we see in the consultation note and comments, not for fun. It is only in a situation where the contractor and the developer have not thought properly about it, do not finish it, despite the fact that they have promised it or have entered into an agreement on it. It is, of course, in the extreme situation where we all have an interest in it being completed quickly in accordance with the agreements so that the cars can come forward. So I don't quite understand, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's very pronounced opposition to that particular element of the bill, but we must talk about that during the committee work. I feel convinced that this is one of the legislative proposals that we will be finishing before Christmas there is not the big debate on it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141012	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who listened to what was said.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141019	Now Mrs Anne Baastrup was kind enough to mention me in the rapporteur's speech, thank you for that. Therefore, I would just like to replicate and say that our scepticism is about whether the fees can develop into a money machine. We can't quite see that it's delimited enough. We just want to make sure that it cannot develop into such a fee screw, so that the municipalities can pass charges on to the business community, just as they do with parking fees. I mean, a lot of big cities shovel money home. I don't want this to be like that. That is just what we want fenced in, and we would like to be reassured by the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141052	There I just see the consultation note in such a way that we are reassured. After all, there is no provision for this to be some form of punishment for the contracting companies, not at all. After all, it is up to you to keep to the deadlines, and if you don't, you can run into a fee. If it is the case that the agreements that have been concluded are being complied with, and then there is an act of force majeure, then it is expressly stated that we will skip, then we will take it easy and then there will be no penance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141123	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141124	Now I think we should be careful not to confuse two things. For one thing, the penance you will have to pay if you take unreasonable time to finish a digging job; that is what we are going to do. The second thing I am talking about is the fees mentioned for applying for a digging permit. So you have to pay a fee. That is what I am talking about here, and it is on this point that we also want the Minister's reassurance, with all due respect to Mrs Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141151-2	Okay, then I'll get Mr. Kevin. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen certainly the Minister's reassurance. At least that's how I read the hearing answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141159	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Sarah Nørris.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141204	Thank you. The overall view of the Enhedslisten is that the roads and maintenance of these and all other infrastructure are a public task, and we are fundamentally opposed to road managers being able to privatise themselves out of this responsibility. We take this view because we believe that precisely the infrastructure creates the basis for coherence and mobility, growth and jobs that a society must make available to its people and to its business community. The infrastructure in Enhedslisten's optics is therefore a social task, also because in this way it comes under democratic control from the state, region or municipality respectively. Since we and this may be a little pseudo, as it was not myself who was present that day, but I hope that everyone understands the purpose of the proposal that was then held a couple of negotiating meetings with the then Transport Minister, Henrik Dam Kristensen, we were therefore aware that the purpose of the bill was to make it easier for municipalities in particular to downgrade municipal roads to private common roads. At a time of poor municipalities suffering from economic hardship, downgrading could easily become the big austerity project in the municipalities. At that time we had to see that this was probably one of the aims of a new road law. In any case, the first draft stated that the deadline for the earliest execution of a municipal decision on the downgrading of a road had been reduced from four to one year. On the basis of these negotiations with Enhedslisten, the Ministry of Transport chose to listen to our concerns and maintain the four-year deadline in the draft legislative proposal that we are now holding, so that a decision on downgrading can be implemented no earlier than four years after the municipality's decision. And thank you for that. We understand that smaller roads can be downgraded, for example. in summer cottage areas, colonial garden areas, side roads with few residents and perhaps also a little out in the countryside. However, if it spreads to perhaps slightly trafficked ordinary villa roads, we will have a fragmented, fragmented local road network with very different maintenance standards and loss of economies of scale which the municipalities are still able to exploit. That is why there is something we do not understand here. We were initially satisfied with the question of whether the concept of overall traffic assessment could be tightened up, i.e. what is Section 17 of the proposal. Because we felt that some more objective assessments had to be taken into account for the overall assessment of the traffic on the road in question. We can't find this tightening up anywhere in the bill or in the comments, and even if we haven't been invited into the good company right around this, we would like to have just been informed in advance before the bill was sent out. Unlike others I have heard, we are in favour of the possibility of differentiated payments, for example. parking, as it opens up for example. may reduce the payment for electric cars or exempt them entirely from payment. We think it is a great idea to promote elbilistism rather than any other carism. Then we'll get to snow clearing. It's nothing to brag about in this country, even on the municipal road network, especially on those roads that are classified as C-roads. The requirements for landowners about snow removal on sidewalks and paths are tough enough, but many find that the municipality does not have the same obligation on the smaller roads and not at all on bicycle paths. We also believe that the rules relating to the suspension of electoral posters for referendums, municipal elections and regional elections are equally restrictive enough. The whole idea of coming after the sinner with threats of fines and the like we don't like. It must be enough for the road authorities, together with the police, to ensure that posters are in such a way that they do not impair road safety and that posters may be wrongly hung by the road authority on the bill of the party that has hung the poster. We call for as little zeal as possible, and as often as we have no choice. Time's up, too, I see. So, in conclusion, we reserve our position on the second and third readings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141610	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mr. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141616	Thank you. As we read the law complex, there are many good bars. The code words simplification and modernisation clearly seem to have a content, even if there are examples that when the government's lawmaking machine rolls, there is not always content in the words. But we think it's here not only because we get fewer laws we go down from four to two in the field but also when it's completely incontrovertible that a framework is provided for managing troublesome digging work, including requirements for better cooperation between the authorities. There is probably not a single driver in this country who does not think that we as an authority are helping to exacerbate the problems of congestion, because the authorities do not talk and you dig the same places over and over again. Mrs Baastrup has given graphic examples of this. A little dream could be that especially the municipalities could be better at demanding faster completed digging work, even if the nighttime hours had to be used. It is at least natural for companies that have to recognise loss of value when machines stand still. It is, of course, also about the economy, we are well aware of that, and this is where we have a minor concern with regard to the legislative proposal, which we would really like to have shed some light on during committee work. It's the question of how the Ministry of Transport and the KL can be so far apart when you estimate the financial consequences of this bill. And as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has mentioned that there is also a fee problem we must have looked at a little more closely. But all in all, from our chair, these are real and relevant things here; improvements that we expect to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141809	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Mike Legarth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023141815	Thank you for that, President. Of course, the Conservative People's Party also supports the simplification of the Road Code, which today consists of four separate laws; it is now being halved into two laws. Of course, we support this simplification and modernisation. The second part of the agreement is about digging work, where it is now established that there must be better systematisation, and if you do not comply with the deadlines for digging work, then you can get a fine, a fine. We think this is very much needed, because when you go to Copenhagen, you can see that there is no connection in the way that is being dug. There is digging everywhere, and you can't get there. You can't get there. So we think that is a very good move. We are very much in favour of this. We also think that the third element, namely more flexible cross-border traffic, is a very good idea. We depend on the removal of tribulation, on making it easier and on strengthening mobility. And if you can do it with intelligent guidance, signalling, etc., we will of course support it. We also think it is quite right for the municipalities to be given the mandate that you can differentiate the payment of parking on the assumption that I assume that you want to create cleaner air. But I also stress that this is something which the municipalities themselves must decide individually whether they want to apply. If there is a democratic majority in favour of this, then it is not we who are putting an obstacle in the way of it. Finally, there has been a discussion on the fees for digging work. I am concerned about that too. If it turns out that you have to pay for some digging permits that you are not paying for today, then we are against as a starting point. We will not be involved in introducing new taxes and charges for business. If, on the other hand, we do not keep to the normal deadlines, that is another matter; we would like to look at that. But it doesn't look like that's what this is all about. So we would like to see that drilled out during the committee work. We look forward to it. With these comments and views, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023142029	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023142045	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. After all, this is a large and comprehensive legislative proposal which offers a much-needed update of the legislation in general, and there are also a number of new initiatives. It has been mentioned that, in its basic form, the Road Law in force entered into force on 1 April 1972. It has been constantly adjusted and amended several times, but in many ways the law is no longer up to date, and therefore there is a need for radical modernisation of the law, and this is best met by drafting a completely new law. Among other things, the draft law reduces the total number of laws in this area by repealing the Road Contributions Act and the Cleaning Act and incorporating them into the remaining main laws: the Road Act and the Private Road Act. In addition, the provisions have been simplified and modernised in a purely linguistic way so that, overall, the law becomes more comprehensible and easier to apply. As I said, there are also a number of new measures. After all, I am pleased to see that, in the light of today's and the conciliation we reached before the summer, there is a majority in favour and even a broad consensus in favour of the measures. As you know, this is part of the Road Act voting agreement, which became part of the Transport Agreement 2014 from 24 June, between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. But for the sake of good order, let me briefly outline some of the main points of the draft law. The bill focuses in particular on combating congestion on the road network. After all, tribulation is an area that the vast majority of citizens can and, unfortunately, must also deal with. Every day, many hours are wasted behind the wheel, and there are probably a lot of people like the rapporteurs here in Parliament who have also said so in mainly the larger cities around the country, who at some point in everyday life have felt bothered by digging work that seems to show up new places every day, or by what may be even worse, that on trafficked roads asphalt has just been put on after a long roadwork and then blocked off again in the same place, because a new digging work begins, a new cable operator needs to do. It can be done better. Therefore, first of all, a duty is introduced for all digging operators and cable owners to coordinate planned digging work before applying for digging permission. The aim is to promote co-excavation, i.e. where several operators share the same permit, thereby reducing the total number of digging works. The Road Authority will also have more tools to deal with the situation in which digging is delayed in relation to the deadline agreed in the permit. It will be, for example. the right of the road authority to impose penalties for delay and the right of the road authority to complete work on behalf of the landlord in the event of delay. The purpose is clear enough: fewer digging work must be delayed for the benefit of the comprehension. Then I will say what the purpose is not. What's the point? The aim is not, the intention is not that terms of penance should be a new money machine for our municipalities. In addition, the draft law contains measures, based in particular on the metropolitan area, aimed at ensuring a more flexible flow of traffic on particularly strategic roads passing through several municipalities. On such roads, individual municipalities may have individual and different interests in terms of traffic flow. There may be well-founded local considerations, but in some cases it may go beyond the overall comprehension. In order to address this, rules are laid down on mandatory cooperation between the relevant municipalities, and the intention is that the parties should draw up joint agreements on the availability of the entire route, so that the focus is on the overall flow of traffic across the municipal boundaries. In other words, the fight against congestion is an important part of the focus of the new measures in the draft law, but the focus is also, in fact, on making road traffic more green. It will be the case that the draft law allows municipalities to differentiate payment for parking according to environmental considerations. This means, in short, that individual municipalities can choose to accommodate environmentally friendly vehicles by making parking for environmentally friendly vehicles cheaper or perhaps even free of charge. But it is up to the municipalities to choose whether to use that tool. The provision may prove to play an important role in relation to e.g. the distribution of electric cars here in Denmark. It is also the intention of the draft law that it should generally be easier for municipalities to manage the road area. I would like to give you a specific example. Today it is the case that the municipality must be applied for permission for, among other things. outdoor serving for restaurants, location of bicycle stands and a wide range of other types of rot over road area, which are actually quite simple and straightforward from the outset. In future, however, local authorities will be able to decide for themselves that certain areas do not require authorisation every time. In other words, municipalities will not be able to process a large number of applications in the specific areas if they choose to make use of the option. And it is not only the municipalities that are spared a lot of administration, since the municipality's own citizens will then also avoid a cumbersome application procedure in those areas where the municipality chooses to make use of the option. In short, it can then become easier to be a shop owner if he no longer has to apply for permission to place his goods on the pavement area, but only has to keep himself within the overall framework set out by the municipality. I look forward to further discussion in committee and thank you for the comments that have been made. There have been a few such very specific questions, and I think we will also take them in committee; I look forward to receiving your questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023142711	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be forwarded to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023142729	The debate is open. Mr President, first of all I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023142752	I have said this before, but now I say it again, because it is true: good progress and our road network are crucial for growth and job creation around the country. This also applies to Frederikssund and Roskilde Fjord region. Therefore, the current transportal bottleneck at Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge, which was built in 1935, is a problem to be solved. Against this background, it is very gratifying that today we can first process the construction law for a new fjord connection at Frederikssund, so that we can get rid of the car cows and restore the momentum over Roskilde Fjord. With this bill we authorise the Minister of Transport to build a 8.6 km long four-track motorway between Frederikssundsvej and Skibbyvej in Hornsherred, including a high bridge over Roskilde Fjord between Marbækvej and Tørslev Hage. With this construction law, then, we put action behind the words of the broad transport agreement that we entered into in March 2013 when, on the basis of a comprehensive and thorough EIA study, we decided to build a new bridge at Frederikssund. The project is expected to cost well over 2 billion. DKK, including 30% in reserve. Of this total, 660 million will be financed. kr. by a state contribution that we have found in the Infrastructure Fund. The remaining funding is made by user payment with an expected repayment period of 40 years. It should not be concealed here at first reading that there has been criticism of this partial payment model. There are three main reasons why the conciliation circle has chosen this model, which the Left supports. Firstly, there is a free alternative in the form of the existing bridge for passenger cars, buses, agricultural vehicles and two-wheel vehicles. So there will not be a payment ring at Roskilde Fjord. Secondly, the alternative to user charges would be that the project could not be financed and implemented in the foreseeable future, and this would seriously damage the development of the region. Here we have received very clear reports, both from the municipal council and the business community in the area: Get that bridge built quickly, although there will be a partial user fee. We have listened to that. Thirdly, it has to be said that money will be fully valued when the new bridge is crossed in the form of saved time, but also saved fuel. The precise tariffs for crossing the bridge and any discounts that may be decided will be set by a future board of directors of the independent public undertaking, which will be responsible for the operation of the link once it has been built. In view of the general shortage of government capital, because there are plenty of good and relevant proposals around the country, but there is a shortage in relation to the need to build, I predict that we could use this model for similar projects elsewhere in the country, but we will have to see that. The Left is very confident in the comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact of the project through a thorough EIA study. This is a Natura 2000 area, and that is why, of course, things must be completely in order with regard to habitats directives, etc. I am quite sure that they are doing so, particularly with the additional assessment which the Minister has wisely made of the various lines. This is what the Road Directorate is doing right now, and I think the result should be available within a few weeks, so we also have it in the process. For the Left, it is important that we now speed up the construction of this much needed connection over Roskilde Fjord. We should not hesitate any longer. It is expected that the construction works can start in 2016 and that the new bridge can open sometime in 2019, and then the long car queues at Frederikssund will be over. The Left can strongly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023143215	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023143238	One should not have run many times over the existing Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge at Roskilde Fjord until one has found that there is a need for something to happen. It is a question of congestion; it is a question of wasting one's time keeping in line; it is a question of polluting inappropriately by keeping idle, so that there is exhaust which just blows out to no use in the world. That is why there has been a year-long struggle about it • I think we have to go back to the 1990s and perhaps even further back, when it was first noticed that there were people who started talking about something new. In recent years, when I have been the Socialist Transport Rapporteur, and also before that, I have taken note of very strong local forces. I remember myself the very active former mayor of S-Mayor Ole Find Jensen, who came to Christiansborg one time after another with delegations from the business community, trade unions and the other and drummed for this connection. It really is a gigantic piece of political craftsmanship on the part of the locals and, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, it has been good to see that local people have been willing to say: yes, we really would like this to be a fully state-funded solution, but we must also note that this solution is so much needed that we are willing to put something together where we ourselves must contribute in terms of user charges. It is a really nice piece of political craftsmanship that has been made by the locals from Frederikssund. And that is why the Social Democrats are also very happy that with this bill we can now open up the way for work to start, that we can get the connecting routes to be made and that we can get the bridge to be made so that we can cross Roskilde Fjord in a new and more appropriate way, so that we can save time and save fuel. It is clear that when you do such a large and comprehensive piece of work, there will also be concerns about whether it makes too much noise, whether it is problematic in relation to the environment and other things. And there we are from the Socialist side of the view that a very, very thorough EIA study has been carried out, so it is on an enlightened basis that we are doing this. We've been approached by local citizens... I've received several requests myself, including... from the local Social Democratic parliamentary candidate, Malou Lunderød, who has asked critically about it with the European Court of Justice and this habitat requirement. And that is why I am really, really glad that today we are also dealing with the fact that our minister has ensured that the Road Directorate has to carry out an additional study in this area so that we know that we are on the right track when we do this work. There shouldn't be any outstanding issues in relation to these things. When there is a Natura 2000 area, we are additionally obliged to take environmental considerations into account, which is why we Social Democrats are pleased that they are also being taken. So we're glad that with this bill we're building a bridge to the future, to the future Frederikssund, and that we're finally gonna finish the great work that has been done locally by Ole Find Jensen and other strong local forces from Frederikssund, and that we can look forward to having a bridge ready in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023143601	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023143611	Well, it's a joyful day for Frederikssund after years of struggle and massive pressure from an almost unanimous council. There was only one Social Democrat who did not agree, as far as I am aware, so fortunately it was a vast majority who agreed to recommend to us politicians in here at Christiansborg that there was a strong desire to also make this user-funded solution, which is a little innovative. However, as others have said, the alternative had probably been that perhaps 10 to 15 years had passed before a solution had been found to the traffic problems surrounding Frederikssund. This is a boost to business. There is no doubt that it will also be a huge boost to the settlement in the area, so we naturally welcome this in the Danish People's Party too. We have been actively pushing for the extra money to be allocated; in fact, it turned out at the eleventh hour that suddenly there was little need for additional funds. It was good that we could agree to find them in the conciliation circle. It is true, as some have also said, that a little bit of doubt has been raised in relation to the habitat area, and I also welcome the fact that the Minister is now asking the Road Directorate to look again at the EIA statement that has been made. I now have full confidence that the people of the Road Directorate and those who have made the EIA report are fully aware of it, which I may not always be confident that you have in the European Union; they are also a little far from Frederikssund, you might say. I wonder if we can be reasonably sure that the great preparatory work that has been done will also keep all the way home, because it is important that this project is not further delayed. There we must politically stand together to get this through within the timetable outlined. As I have said, this is important not least for the benefit of the business community in Frederikssund, but also for the sake of the many citizens who keep in line every day, either one way or the other, to take care of their daily activities. So we look forward to both the second and third readings and the final adoption of this bill, and we look even more forward to the excavators getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023143827	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Helle Løvgreen Mølvig.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023143830	A small correction: I am not the rapporteur, but as a new member of Parliament, I am extremely pleased that I have been able to take over the ovule No. L 21 by the Radical Left rapporteur on this matter, Mr. Andreas Steenberg. And I have a special relationship with this particular law, as I am a representative of Frederikssundsvirksom. So dear Minister, rapporteurs and dear future users of Frederikssund Bridge: Yes, the upcoming Fjord connection in Frederikssund Municipality we have already named Frederikssund Bridge. As far back as the 1960s, a new fjord connection has been wanted and discussed, and finally it comes. We are very many citizens, business, commuters and city council politicians who are happy, because it is now possible to get to work without too much waste time, because it will be possible to develop the region and the municipality, and because more jobs and growth will be created for companies. The Act is part of the implementation of the Transport Agreement of 21 March 2013 on a new Storstrømbro, the Holstebro motorway, etc., and it results in a number of agreements with just over 660 million. kr. to a southern high bridge forming part of a 8.6 km long four-track motorway between the planned third stage of the Frederikssund motorway and Skibbyvej in Hornsherred. The rest of the financing of the new fjord connection will be found via user payment with a calculated repayment time of 40 years. This is therefore the same concept as for example. The Great Belt Bridge. Today, the current connection serves the two-track Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge, which is a patty bridge from 1935 to over 20,000 cars a day. That's a lot of them. It is primarily citizens from the municipality of Frederikssund who commute to and from work within or outside the municipality. It's by car or bus, and a lot of people have to move on by train. On weekdays the cows on and around the bridge are huge and slow, and up to the weekends the summer house guests fill up extra and make it mildly chaos. Emergency vehicles find it difficult to get there and buses are unnecessarily delayed. The Radical Left is therefore incredibly pleased that the Fjord connection at Frederikssund is now becoming something so that a lot of citizens can have an easier everyday life with less waste time. The buses can reach the train exits, and ambulances can pass and save lives. This has been a long process, and the Radical Left would like to thank the old municipal council in Frederikssund for their good cooperation. In the Radical Left, responsibility is our motto, and it must be said that the old city council did. They took responsibility for saying yes to user charges so that the bridge could be set in motion now, instead of waiting for the state to have all the money. That is why, in the Radical Left, we supported the idea that the state should set aside 660 million. kr. At one point it was proposed that there should be both user charges for the old bridge and the new bridge, and the Radical Left took the view that it would be totally unacceptable for citizens to suddenly have to pay to run over their bridge which they had run over for almost 80 years. The Radical Left therefore supported the fact that the use of the old bridge was still free of charge, and that is why we took an active part in finding the 660 million. kr., which was the requirement if the project was to be completed now. We are pleased that a solution has been found that enjoys broad support both here in the Danish Parliament and locally, and therefore we look forward to continuing the cooperation in the coming years also with the new city council on the construction of the bridge. It benefits citizens, businesses, tourists and others with errands in the municipality of Frederikssund. That is why the Radical Left is happy to support the proposal in full. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144213	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Baastrup, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144223	For many years it has been discussed how Frederikssund can obtain a city centre worthy of the city's citizens. For many years there has been concern about how long Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge could hold the pressure. Local government, citizens and business have long been pressing for a solution. Several exploratory work is behind it. Various models are set up north, south, less south, tunnel, high bridge, etc. But they also landed in a financing problem. It was a challenge for us to give priority to Frederikssund Bridge alone over state money, so it has been a pleasure to experience the co-winding discussion we have had in Frederikssund about solving the challenge in a different way. I am convinced that this independent public undertaking, which now has to set the rates for crossing the high bridge, will actually find a model which will enable both citizens of Frederikssund to see that they can get the necessary discounts, but also that the traffic that just passes by because it is faster will also pay. The thing is, we're gonna have to get the money back in 40 years. So I look forward to this bridge promoting Frederikssund's opportunities for getting a good business environment and good conditions for the citizens who live there. So all in all, it looks beautiful. There is just one detail that we need to spend a great deal of time in committee to clarify. The Minister and the Ministry, in their comments on the bill, have, of course, made a great deal of progress on the relationship between the various species of animals living in the Natura 2000 area and on how to compensate and ensure that the necessary replacement nature is brought up, the necessary forest for compensation for the problems caused by the high-bridge. But then there has been this judgment from May 2014 and we must, of course, take that into account in the final formulation of compensations, compensations, or whatever else we may call it in EU languages, so that there should be no doubt that we are, of course, living up to the principles of the Natura 2000 and Habitats Directives, and so that there is no doubt as to whether it is Article 6 (6). 3 or 6 paragraphs 4. I know that Frederikssund is aware of that. After all, the municipality has really done a lot to keep its eyes on: Are we now doing the right thing to ensure our nature in the area? That is where we in the committee must also point out that we will support if there is anything else we can do, so that we do not, under any circumstances, end up with a court case in the EU system. So I look forward to relatively hard work in the Committee on Transport, because this is an important matter. I would suggest that we cooperate with the Committee on the Environment. After all, they are something more in the various directives and regulations on the individual articles of the Habitats Directive, so that we do not run into criticism from our colleagues here in the Folketing. But there should be no doubt that in SF we think a connection south of Frederikssund is a good idea. We just need to get everything under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144556	Thank you. There is a brief comment, so I would ask the rapporteur to wait a moment. It's sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144605	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the SF supports this proposal in this way and does not now start to falter because there are some things here that need to be examined more thoroughly. Mrs Baastrup mentioned that we would work hard, and I also hope that we will work quickly, because this is a matter of urgency. As I see it, unnecessary delays lead to the people who are holding in Frederikssund today having to last even longer if this is delayed even longer, so that we do not talk 2019, but 2020 and 2021. And that's where I listened that SF will work hard. But the question is: Will SF also work quickly so that we can get this in place before Christmas?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144654-2	After all, the work of the Committee on Transport is a collective process, and it is clear that if I have to take a long time to hold those various hearings or whatever else we find might be a good idea, there will be time to do so. What I am proposing is that we work hard, quickly, accurately and thoroughly so that we can identify what is wrong with applying Article 6 (1). 4 in relation to Article 6 (4) 3, whether we can compensate for the fact that we have to bring in replacements in front of us, how we can make sure that we actually comply with the EU directives. After all, no one has an interest in having legislation that means that we can wait a great many years because it comes before an EU court, which has suspensory effect before we can even get started. I think we need to be somewhat flexible here and accommodate each other in our desire to uncover it so that we do not run into any cases, because this is important. It is important for the citizens of Frederikssund, it is important for the business community in Frederikssund, but it is also important for Denmark's reputation that we should not be dragged before the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144800	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144801	I just get a little nervous when Mrs. Anne Baastrup starts talking about hearings here. I am therefore confident that in their supplementary assessment the Road Directorate is thorough, and I would just like to call on the rapporteur to read them carefully when the Road Directorate's additional assessments are available, but at the same time to ensure that this bill is also adopted by Christmas. Well, we don't need a number of hearings on this before Christmas. We need the Vejdirektoratet to work through this as the Transport Minister writes them, and so we need the SF to support this bill too, so that we can start building that bridge, because that's what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144848-2	In my view, it does not take long to convene any experts, to convene the Committee on the Environment, to convene the Committee on Transport and then to hold a two-hour meeting. It can be done. We just had a consultation today, where everyone offered that they would be available all the time, if needed, and when this bill, which we agree on is important, can work quickly. There have been very major changes in Danish politics in one night before, so if Mr. Hans Andersen agrees with it and wants to help work quickly, so we can do it easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144920	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023144922	Thank you. It was really the word consultation that tripped me a little, because it used to be such an expression that you want to train things a little. Is it also an expression of distrust of those both external and internal experts who have sat and made the EIA rescue?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145002	What I just think is important is that we are safe here in the Folketing. And I have a great deal of respect for sir. Kim Christiansen's knowledge on transport, but I do not think that his knowledge on the environment is as great as that of his environmental rapporteur. And I'm also quite clear where I have some shortcomings there. My environmental rapporteur, and the people in the SF who know something about the environment, knew these rules well. They have been completely entangled in Østerild. There have been so many unpleasant cases where we, and also the previous government, ran into problems that were unnecessary because they had not been said at a sufficiently early stage: we are doing it ourselves, we are doing it now. How much additional compensation do we have to make, how much will we have to make of some kind of replacement forest, replacement nature • you cannot use the concept of compensation • to ensure that there is no breach of Natura 2000 regulations?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145102	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145103	Well, in the Danish People's Party, we would also like to help ensure that there are no violations. But my question is really just about what a hearing should remedy. I am sure that in the Vejdirektoratet, where the EIA report has been prepared, and in the work that the Minister of Transport has now started, there are also relevant environmentalists inside. Maybe from the Ministry of the Environment, I shouldn't be able to tell you how to do it between ministries. However, I just do not have anyone to believe that a hearing with some experts, which will now be called in from the academic environment, should be able to solve this and give us a better answer than what we can get from an additional study in the Road Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145142	Then we'll just use another word. It is the case that if an extended technical review is carried out, then the various NGOs and others can come and tell them what they think about it. Well, it's not because I want to be in the press or anything. It is because I would like to know, as the transport rapporteur, that what I say yes to and recommend to my group is not something I then get reproached with afterward by my environmental rapporteur because I have not done my job well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145209	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Sarah Nørris, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145218	Thank you. In view of the fact that a fixed link at Roskilde Fjord has been under discussion for a very long time, and given that the European Court of Justice tightened the habitats regulations in May of this year, it is incomprehensible to us that the Minister is suddenly busy rushing the bill through the Folketing, without having full knowledge of whether the order means that a tunnel should be built instead of a bridge. It is strange that the additional assessment can be carried out in just a few weeks, given that it needs to be re-evaluated whether a bridge is the least harmful alternative to alternative lines. The EIA report seriously questions this, why it may be necessary to abandon the plans for a bridge and replace them with a tunnel, and then the process will almost have to go all the way back. The Enhedslisten doubts that this additional assessment will be impartial, given the urgency. There is therefore every reason to delay the examination of this bill, for example. after New Year, so that we know what we are dealing with and so that the additional assessment does not become a show process and a real consultation phase of this additional assessment will be carried out. The tracks from the metrocity ring scare me. This is also only the latest fucking piece of shit attached to this bill. The biggest blunder is, of course, that the idea of building a new bridge through an area covered by so many nature conservation provisions and where there are so many recreational interests has come into being. Yes, we have been told that compensatory measures will take place elsewhere, the creation of new habitats, the installation of noise screens, etc. However, this does not change the fact that a bridge will significantly degrade the area around Roskilde Fjord. A tunnel also sets its tracks, albeit to a much lesser extent. Finally, if a tunnel is to be built, it will clearly be the least small variant. Unacceptable is the fact that the government will not look seriously at the realistic alternatives: a reconstruction of Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge and the adjacent road network, but also a marked recovery of public bus traffic, which has been systematically deteriorating for many years. On top of the grave mistakes is the crown of the work that drivers have to pay to cross the bridge. It will keep a lot of people from driving over and making them continue to take the free road across Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge. It is assumed that only approx. 4,000 fewer cars will run over Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge, which was supposed to be relieved. However, since this is not enough to repay the new partially loan-financed bridge, traffic across Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge must be obstructed. This is happening, among other things. by banning cars over 31⁄2 tonnes. The Enhedslisten will be happy to help Frederikssund relieve the many cars that are passing through. As the proposal stands here, we do not believe that a new southern link will bring this relief, as the Minister claims. We are asking a number of questions about the proposal, among others. to the creation of an independent public undertaking, which shall charge only for crossing the bridge. As I have said, we find it foolish to tax this connection and what other relations does the Minister intend to impose on it? However, as the Minister insists, it would be more obvious to let Sund & Bælt handle the task instead of setting up another bureaucratic knobbing. Enhedslisten's vote against the proposal should you be in doubt about it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145535	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145542	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance is a conciliation partner, even of several rounds, in relation to this innovation when building bridges, and we can therefore support the bill on the construction of this fjord connection. Whatever one thinks of the project, according to the previous speaker, it must be beyond doubt that there is a need for improved access over the fjord. Basically, we are also of the opinion that large infrastructure investments are generally always profitable, even though there is often resistance during the preparatory phase. For example, the latest inventories show that the social return from the Storebælt Bridge is now 14 per cent, while environmental and biodiversity on Sprogø has been virtually never better. Although we have to go all the way back to before the municipal merger and to the old county of Frederiksborg, where the first analyses were carried out in this project, I think it is really important that there is local support and it is actually very intensive, not least from the municipality of Frederikssund, when, as here, a completely new concept for regional bridges is introduced by the introduction of partial user charges. This has also been mentioned in the past. It's an innovation. One thing, though, is to pass this construction law, another thing is to find the right balance for the tariffs that are supposed to make everything work together. After all, as the word says, traffic forecasts are only forecasts, so there is a very important part for the board of directors when it comes to deciding on the important tariffs, which must also be robust in the long term, as is also emphasised in the answers to the hearings, not least for the business community. Discount schemes, commuting conditions, etc. must be considered and the depreciation period must be maintained. We also think it is right to maintain a free alternative and to regulate small and large vehicles as proposed, including agricultural machinery. It is clear that there are many balances in such a proposal, and many things at this stage must be based on an estimate. So it is our hope that the board will, in reality, have the power to correct the conditions if it proves necessary when experience is gained with the direct and indirect effects of the bridge link. Yes, that must be our position on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145805	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Mike Legarth, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023145817	Thank you, sir. President. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill. There is joy and joy in Frederikssund in this time, and with good reason. It's been a long, cool move to get there. But we are now deciding, at first reading, by a massive majority, hopefully, that we will have a construction law that will enable us to combat the congestion and queue in the area because there is not enough progress and mobility. A four-track motorway is now being built. The price is not insignificant. 660 million kr. by the state, the rest is user-paid. The total price is about 1.3 billion. kr., and there is user fee over 40 years. So is it a problem with user charges? Normally, we in the Conservative People's Party feel that we do not want any more user charges, because we regard this as a tax on what we pay in advance. But here there is an alternative route, an alternative route you can take, and therefore there is no problem in it, and that is why it is a principle that I think you can use elsewhere in the country, namely that when there are alternative routes, it is okay to do it this way. That is also what is in demand. There's a whole lot of agreement on this in the local area. So we can only support that. After all, there has been a very thorough nature assessment, the EIA statement, things have been thoroughly examined. We have heard today that there has been doubts about habitat requirements, Natura 2000, but we have been reassured by the Minister, who is making an extraordinary round to make sure that things are as they should be. I also have every confidence that they are. I also think that it would be a complete stop point for new consultations and new rounds to be set up. In other words, we have professionals and experts to help us create a legal basis, and when they have nodded to it, I know that then there is also reason to believe that it is sustainable and complete within the framework of legislation. And that, of course, must always be the case. So there is no reason to stick a stick in the wheel, which I think SF and Mrs Anne Baastrup are up to. We hope that we can get the excavators started as soon as possible, so that the high bridge, the fjord connection at Frederikssund, is finished and ready for inauguration in 2019. I see, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150053	If sir... Mike Legarth has finished his speech, we can turn to questions from Mrs Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150058	I just want to know if the Conservatives do not agree that we have to comply with EU rules. Mr. Mike Legarth, that it is to stick a stick in the wheel when, like me, I just think that the rules that we have joined in the European Union should also be observed in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150115	That's not what this is about, I think. It is a matter of course that we must observe the law at all times as Parliament does, just as all other citizens of this country must always comply with the laws, rules and regulations that exist. We must conform to the common rules that we have agreed on in the European Union, but that is also what the Minister has secured. Now the Minister says he will carry out an extraordinary investigation, but on that basis he does not believe that there is any reason to postpone the first reading and I fully agree with that. But I also believe that SF should be able to settle for the fact that when the experts we have here, who are completely independent, can deny things, then let the process run. There is no reason why we should be wiser on our own initiative than the officials and experts we have to rely on.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150203	Mrs. Anne Baastrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150212	When the Vejdirektoratet's statement comes, we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, together with our environmental rapporteurs, will have to check seriously whether we can actually live with it. Well, I don't know if sir. Mike Legarth is a supermaster in the environment and the European Union, but I am not, and I would like some others to look at it, and I would like their hinterland to be prepared to check whether that is okay. I don't know if sir. Mike Legarth remembers that, but at the time there was uncertainty about Østerild, I certainly saw that the then government had great difficulties in finding out how to deal with it. And that's all. I would just like to avoid that we are in a situation where the citizens of Frederikssund are experiencing a situation where we may land at the European Court of Justice or that other things get in the way because we are not aware of what responsibility we have here and do our work properly in the Folketing. I think we both have an interest in moving forward in the right way from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150325	Well, I think it is to flag with a flag that is totally unnecessary, and I think it is a question of trying to profile itself when you, as the SF rapporteur, say that they will now call for a hearing. In other words, the work to be done and the checks to be carried out have been carried out by the Minister, and he has asked his officials to check whether the legal basis that was decided upon is still in place, even after the tightening up that has come from the European Union. So there is no reason why each of us should start calling for a hearing and doing a whole lot. Things are going on, and if there is a go from the Minister, we will continue as expected, and that is what we believe and expect. And otherwise the Minister himself will take up the matter and adjust what needs to be adjusted accordingly. I mean, it's totally populist flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150411	Thank you to the rapporteur, and I think that, for the sake of the television viewers and listeners, I would just like to point out that we can have the debate on whether a hearing should be held and that a rapporteur always has the right to raise this in a committee, in other words whether a hearing should be held. And then it is up to the committee to decide whether that consultation should be carried out. It was such information for the citizens who are sitting and watching so that there should be no confusion. Both rapporteurs are aware of this too, so there is nothing there. It was pure enlightenment. Thank you to the rapporteur and then we will go to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023150450	That fg. President Then the Minister of Transport escaped to explain it). Well, thank you for that, President. That's true. That is how it is in the work here in the Folketing. Thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. Let me give you a brief outline of the content and background of the bill. First of all, it is an authorisation to build a four-track motorway, which is taken from Frederikssund south about Frederikssund, and which is connected to Skibbyvej in Hornsherred. The road is taken over Roskilde Fjord on a high bridge. The draft law also includes an authorisation to build a two-track road linking the new motorway with Lyngerupvej east of Lyngerup. As we have also heard today, it is the case that the road users who daily use the existing Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge over Roskilde Fjord and regarding naming, I would say that it is not the current Crown Prince Frederik who has named this connection, because it is an old connection we are dealing with here to do more than anyone knows the need for renewed capacity and for a new connection. There is steadily increasing traffic over the existing Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge, and there are correspondingly increasing problems with availability on the line. This leads to delays on both sides of the fjord. Now we heard about it today... it may have been on the table for even longer... but what I've been able to dig up in the Ministry of Transport's archives is that at least back since the 1990s a new fjord connection has been on the table. From 2007 to 2010, the Road Directorate carried out an EIA study. I am pleased to note that a broad, broad majority in the Danish Parliament has chosen to support the approach proposed by the Road Directorate. The draft law here today is thus the execution of the agreement, which has the exact name: A new Storstrømbro, Holstebro motorway, etc. So that's how we're under here, you can figure it out. Since 21 March 2013, it has been concluded between the Government, the SF, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. The agreement agrees that the link will be established as a high bridge south of Frederikssund, and it will be financed partly by a State contribution and partly by user financing. For example: In addition, to manage the collection of user charges for crossing the upcoming fjord connection, the proposal includes an authorisation to set up an independent public company named Fjordforbunden Frederikssund. In addition to the collection of payments, it is the purpose of the company to establish the bridge and associated road constructions, to raise loans for the financing, establishment and operation of a toll facility, etc. This gives the company overall responsibility for the project. When the upcoming fjord connection is finished, it will mean a significant boost to the whole region in the sense of the word. In short, a new connection increases accessibility, reduces hardship, and shortens travel time for many of the people who today use Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge daily. As I mentioned, the Vejdirektoratet carried out a quite extensive and long-term EIA study, i.e. an environmental study, in the years 2007-2010, where a number of different alternatives were thoroughly examined and the result eventually became a recommendation of the southern line with a high bridge. That approach was based on an overall balance between the traffic, economic and environmental consequences of each alternative. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, and as I have also informed Parliament, I have asked the Road Directorate to make an additional assessment of that recommendation. The background to this is a recent ruling by the European Court of Justice, which has implications for projects affecting a designated Natura 2000 site. And since the area around Roskilde Fjord is designated for Natura 2000 site, the future fjord connection will also be covered by the judgment. The very content of the judgment is rather technical. It is about the fact that if a project takes advantage of so-called compensatory measures in relation to the protected area, certain specific conditions of the EU habitats directive must be met. So this is a new practice. Therefore, the individual conditions have naturally not been meticulously reviewed in the already available EIA study, which was completed in 2010. For this reason, the work currently under way by the Road Directorate is in brief designed to ensure that the project continues to comply with EU legislation, also following this new practice. I can also say that the work is carried out with the help of an external adviser and the result will be submitted to the Danish Parliament very soon so that we can have it included in the consideration of this bill by the Transport Committee. However, in view of the importance of the project and the importance which we have heard a great many rapporteurs talk about today, especially of course for the local area of Frederikssund, which has been so desperate for a solution for decades, I have decided to maintain the timetable of the draft law so that the project can be completed on time. I think it would be inappropriate to postpone the Parliamentary reading of the bill on this basis, and that is why I have chosen this procedure, which I have outlined, to ensure that in these circumstances all considerations are taken into account in the best possible way. I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for its support for the bill and look forward to further consideration by the Danish Parliament's Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023151107	There's a question from Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023151110	Thank you. I would just like to express my satisfaction and satisfaction at the fact that the Minister of Transport has chosen to maintain the bill in this autumn. I very much welcome this because a new bridge is needed at Frederikssund. Then I would also like to acknowledge that when you read the consultation note, you can see that there is also an assessment that the existing Crown Prince Frederik's Bridge and J. F. Willumsen's Road will continue to be a state road. I would like to sign for that and say that, in a sense, I agree with the recital, and I think it makes sense to say that the state still wants to regulate on the route. It is therefore inappropriate, as the municipality of Frederikssund pointed out, to separate things so that there is a road authority and another authority that can take the traffic regulation measures. It is, in fact, just my support for the measures taken so far by the Minister of Transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023151220	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023151222	Thank you for that announcement, I appreciate it. There is a need in many areas, we know that, but here we are out to enter new land, also literally a new construction, a new way of financing traffic, a huge project, a very, very important project, which is why it is important that you go constructively into it, and that is how I see the contribution from Hans Andersen, that is to say that you are constructive. We will also be when, as soon as I have the results of the Road Directorate, I pass them on to the Danish Parliament so that they can be taken over and included in the work of the Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023151307	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. No one else wants to ask questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141023151324	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 24 October 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
