ParlaMint-DK_20141007120002	The meeting is open. 164 times the Folketing has met on the first Monday or Tuesday of October in lust and distress, during war and occupation, after victories and defeats, as we are reminded of in this anniversary year, 2014. When Grundtvig was the age chairman in 1857, he opened the thing with a desire for Denmark's blossoming in a new form, as if he foresaw what appeared in 1864, and foresaw the blossoming thereafter. Now it is I who, as the longest-seated but not the oldest, has the task of directing the election of the Bureau and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120050	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Mogens Lykketoft, and as there are no other recommendations, I shall consider the recommendation adopted by all parties. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120119	As far as the election of Vice-Presidents is concerned, the situation is more complicated. Article 3 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, it says, among other things.: Each of the four largest parliamentary groups represented in the Things, in addition to the parliamentary group to which the Chairman may belong, shall appoint in order of size among its members, the first, the second, the third and the fourth Vice-Presidents respectively. If two or more parliamentary groups are equal, the drawing of lots makes the difference between them. Thus, the Left Group has appointed me as the first Vice-President. For the second Vice-President, the Danish People's Party has appointed Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. For the third Vice-President, the Radical Left Group has appointed Mrs Lone Loklindt. For the fourth Vice-President, there are two recommendations: the Socialist People's Party has proposed Mr. Steen Gade, and Enhedslisten has nominated Mr. Per Clausen. As you know, since the two parliamentary groups have become equal, as mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, there must be a drawing of lots as to who will be the fourth Vice-President. Therefore, I now ask Mrs Karen J. Klint and Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt about acting as temporary clerks in this drawing of lots. I have two cards: on one it says Socialist People's Party, on the other it says Enhedslisten. I would now like to ask the two temporary agents to check that the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten are on the cards, that they are put in envelopes, and to check that the jar is empty. The party whose card I am now pulling out of the jar will fill the post of fourth vice-president. It says: Enhedslisten. This is the Vice-President nominated by the Enhedslisten, Mr. Per Clausen, elected fourth Vice-President.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120438	According to the constitution of the constituent electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Mrs Karen J. Klint (S), Mr Karen J. Klint (S). John Paulsen Paulsen (S), Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt (V) and Mr. Bent Bøgsted (DF). Then things are set, as they are called, and I ask the re-elected President to take his place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120520	I would like to thank you for the confidence shown by my colleagues in all parties by re-electing me for the sixth time.The first three times were within a week to be President of the Folketing. I shall endeavour, in cooperation with my colleagues in the Bureau, to carry out the duties entrusted to me as President of the Things as best I can. It is my hope that I can lead the work in a way that is both informative and inspiring to those who have elected us in here, that the Members of Things can have the best possible conditions to do their political work, and that the Folketing remains a good and exciting workplace for our many skilled employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120605	I welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Princess, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess, to His Royal Highness Prince Joachim, to Her Royal Highness Princess Marie and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. Also warmly welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court, to the Chair of the Faroe Islands' Lating and the Faroe Islands' Layerman as well as to the Mayor of Copenhagen. I take this opportunity to send Parliament's greetings on this day to Greenland's Inatsisartut, which is not represented here today because of the announcement of elections, and to the Faroe Islands' Lagting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120652	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to give the explanation provided for in the Constitution of the general state of the Kingdom and the measures envisaged by the Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007120716	Danish fighters have landed in Kuwait. They must take part in international action against the terrorist organisation ISIL. The Danish Parliament decided to do so last week. I welcome the support for the active and committed international course taken by the government. We are living in a troubled time and we basically have two options: either we help solve the crises that are in the world or we duck and hope that it does not hit us ourselves. I have no doubt. We have to act. ISIL is a horrible and brutal terrorist organisation. It is guilty of killing and assaulting thousands of innocent men, women and children. We need to strike now before ISIL grows bigger and spreads violence and terror in our part of the world. We have to fight for our safety at home. That is also why Denmark supports EU sanctions against Russia and that we have had planes and soldiers in the Baltic countries and Poland. I understand they're worried. That is why we are also ready to continue our support. We must contain Russian attacks before another border is crossed. We're not going back on time during the Cold War. Denmark acts militarily, but we also provide humanitarian aid to the many who have to flee from violence and civil war. Our first priority is always to help in the neighbourhoods. Here we can reach more and better. Denmark has given more than 800 million. kr. for humanitarian aid to the people of Syria. We are one of the countries that takes the lead. And we help in Iraq with camps, food, blankets and trauma treatment, especially for children who are hard-pressed by their too harsh experiences. But there will also be more refugees to Europe and to Denmark. The number of asylum seekers in this country is the highest in 20 years. This is not because of our asylum rules. The conditions for obtaining asylum are exactly the same today as they were under the previous government. No, it reflects that there are more fugitives all over the world than at any other time since World War II. In total, more than 50 million people are displaced from their homes • 50 million. Denmark must, of course, welcome people fleeing war and horror. But the government wants to tighten the rules. It will also take some of the pressure on our municipalities and asylum centres. They find it difficult to find room for the many refugees who are here right now. We are introducing a new temporary protection for those who are fleeing, for example. Civil War. You will be granted a residence permit valid for one year in the first place. We will send refugees back home when the worst riots are over. I think that is both fair and fair. The government will also limit access to family reunification in the light of the exceptional situation. A refugee who is in Denmark under temporary protection shall not be entitled to bring the family here the first year after he or she has been granted a residence permit. If the conflict in the home country continues, the stay can be extended, and then you can have a spouse and children here in Denmark. Fortunately, however, there are conflicts that are resolved so that people can return home. Our asylum rules must take this into account. Human smugglers, illegal immigrants and criminal foreigners challenge our borders and create insecurity for the Danes. Therefore, the government will introduce more intelligent and effective controls in border areas. We will give the police the opportunity to carry out a new and strengthened immigration control in border areas and airports. We want to strengthen control at airports so that it is more targeted and consistent. And the police will use new and efficient technology, such as automatic license plate scanners, at borders. In this way, the police can take action against smugglers and be alerted when suspicious cars drive into Denmark. We are rethinking police controls within the Schengen acquis and in a way that is more targeted than the border controls introduced by the previous government. There are also those who travel the other way across the border to fight in a war far away from Denmark. I am thinking of the young men and women who go to Syria or Iraq to support the terrorist organisation ISIL. And I want to make it quite clear that you have chosen to fight against all that Denmark stands for. They have chosen Denmark from. It is their choice and they must take the consequences. The government does not hesitate to intervene. We'll take their passports. We'll take the residence permit. We will do everything in our power to ensure that the Syrian warriors are accountable for their crimes. And we must also do everything possible to prevent radicalisation. That is why I have a strong appeal today to the Muslim religious authorities in Denmark: Some of the young people who are lured to Syria come in your associations and mosques. You should speak against their warped ideas. You should show them there's another way. You have a responsibility. The atrocities of ISIL are in stark contrast to the values we live by in Denmark. This also applies to the overwhelming majority of Danish Muslims. We must not allow the terrorists to divide our society. This is not a fight between Islam and the West. It's a joint fight against terror. All Danes must stand together against extremism. Terrorists and criminals operate across borders. Fortunately, so do the police. For 16 years, Denmark has been part of European police cooperation in Europol; a cooperation in which we have apprehended drug traffickers and traffickers and broken up cases of organised child abuse. It is now clear that, because of our legal reservations, Denmark will have to leave Europol, perhaps even next autumn. This will be a serious problem for the safety and security of the Danes. That is why the government is prepared to commit itself to a referendum after the next Then we can choose for ourselves which parts of EU cooperation in the field of justice Denmark should be involved in and which we do not care about. I stress that we can maintain Denmark's participation in police cooperation as well as our exceptions in the field of foreigners. The government is now setting in motion an analysis work to create the basis for changing the reservation into an optional system. The work must be completed before the summer. A political agreement must then be negotiated before a referendum. An agreement that makes it quite clear what Denmark chooses from and on, so that the Danes have a solid basis to vote on. We have to take the time we need. We must prepare the referendum thoroughly; it is crucial for Denmark and for the Danes. Yesterday I spoke to the leaders of the EU-positive parties. It is my wish that we can gather together to set in motion a process which could lead to a referendum after the next elections. What is happening in the world affects us here at home, including the economy. When I gave my opening speech three years ago, the government's task was clear; we were to lead Denmark out of the crisis and we would do so in a responsible and solidarity manner. Denmark was hit extra hard by the economic crisis because it did not act in the 00's; it let the good times run out of control. We were one of the rich countries where wealth fell most; we lost over 100,000 jobs. Three years ago, Denmark was in the middle of an economic crisis. Today our economy is stronger: More have come into work • 36,000 more since the beginning of last year • unemployment has fallen; exports have increased; the housing market is better; consumer confidence is greater. Deep crisis has turned to progress. Of course we are affected by what is happening abroad, especially in Europe, and here the prospects are mixed. Everyone would want it to go faster and the road to be more equal. But in Denmark we do what we can to pave the way for better times. We're gonna start Denmark. For three years, the government has given priority to historically high public investment. We are improving competitiveness. Last year we adopted a major growth plan; this year we have decided on an equal growth package. We lower taxes on energy, improve access to capital, so our companies can create jobs. We are driving growth ahead of all, with the aim of creating more jobs. Having a job is a basic security for most people... well to feel a job on proper terms. It's not a matter of course. The labour market we have today has been struggling with. It is important to stand together about your rights. We will increase the deduction for professional quotas; the previous government cut it down. We give a tax relief to 1.3 million Danes who take a joint responsibility. And for three years, we've spent more than 500 million. kr. • the fight against social dumping, better use of working clauses, more control at work, stricter requirements for registration of foreign companies. We've been shopping. Why didn't something happen in the '00s? We are implementing an employment reform. The unemployed, who have the least education, are given the chance to get more out with meaningless courses. Together with the SF and Enhedslisten, we have secured a dependency base for more than 40,000 people, that is, all those who are affected by the brutal phasing-in of the shorter benefit period. We're gonna make it up to 3.3 billion. kr.; we have chosen that we do not abandon people. We have also asked the Disability Commission to work more quickly so that the Folketing can start negotiating a new benefit system after the next election. Now the government will take extra action to improve the working environment. We shouldn't get sick from going to work, of course not. Here in the Danish Parliament, a broad majority has set ambitious targets: we have to have fewer serious accidents at work • a quarter less and the number of injuries that bad backs are going down by one fifth. The government is acting so we can reach the targets. We will spend the money where the problems are greatest. There must be more control of those companies where there is a high risk of a poor working environment, and we will take hard action if the dangerous chemistry or the safety of the scaffolding is constantly rooted. We will raise the fines when the rules are violated several times. The Danes must be able to go to work safely. We want Denmark out of the crisis, but it has to be our way. Everybody's coming. In Europe, the crisis in some places has led to major cuts in welfare. It could have been the same in Denmark. It didn't. We chose a different path. The crisis tested our welfare society, and the welfare society existed because we acted. We have implemented reforms. We've restored the economy. This gives us the opportunity to strengthen our community. The government has invested 10 billion. kr. extra in welfare since 2011. We are creating concrete changes that drive Denmark forward. We create concrete improvements in the daily lives of Danes: a new primary school, a modern psychiatry, faster cancer treatment. And we have made a difference for the citizens who need it most: for the elderly, who get more clean, the elderly were able to afford it; for the pensioners who have received a higher elderly cheque; for the single-parent in jobs that have received an extra tax credit • £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ Every year; and for those children who can now have a birthday or go to sport because we have abolished poverty benefits. Denmark has moved on. We must not put security at risk, not at all for the most vulnerable in our society. A good and strong welfare society is about ensuring opportunities and security for the individual. We have done so today because we have decided that this is the way it should be. But do we also have a secure welfare tomorrow? I want to make this very clear: it is also our choice. In the coming years, additional money will be needed when more elderly people are going to the doctor, when more young people are going to be trained, when we need new medicines and use new treatments in hospitals. The government has planned economic policy so that every year we have extra money to improve our welfare. To put it mildly, next year we will have 3 billion. kr. extra; next year again another 3 billion in addition to that we have 6 billion. kr.; in 3 years 9 billion. kr. etc. We can walk a new step up the stairs every year. It's not a big step. It's not luxury. But it gives us good opportunities to do more where it means a lot to many. On the other hand, if you have zero growth and at the same time want to spend more on health, you have to save elsewhere. We're at a crossroads. We decide which way to go. The government's path is more secure. We want to invest in our community. The time is not for wide-ranging ideas about dubious tax cuts. The time is not for public zero growth without a long-term plan for our welfare. And let me be quite clear: the time is not at all for experiments with our economy and our welfare societies. We spend more money on welfare, and we also spend it in a different way, because we have a clear goal that everyone should have equal opportunities in Denmark. Take our health. One of the first things the government did was to abolish deductions for private health insurance, and we removed the user fee that was sneaking into hospital halls. Childless people do not have to pay for fertility treatment themselves. We have chosen to strengthen our common hospitals. We have introduced a right of investigation; the goal is a diagnosis within 30 days. The waiting times for operations have never been lower than they are today. And we're investing more than 2 billion. kr. in a new and modern psychiatry. I am particularly pleased that the waiting time for children and young people with mental illness has fallen by almost a month since 2011. A child needs quick help so that she is not dragged further and further away from her everyday life and her companions. The government is in favour of free and equal access to health. It's our way. It is a basic security for all of us. I've received an email from a 49-year-old man suffering from arthritis in his spine. It's a terrible and debilitating disease. Medicine can relieve something. It's $150,000. a year, and as he writes, thank God he doesn't have to pay for himself, because I'm so lucky to be a Danish citizen. He also writes that it took far too long before he got his diagnosis time when the disease spread so much that even the best medicine cannot repair what is already destroyed. Therefore, the 49-year-old man writes to me in his e-mail: "It is incredibly important that you can diagnose much earlier than in my case." He's right about that. That is precisely why the government has set aside 5 billion. kr. to better health under the heading 'The sooner, the better'. We promote a better everyday life for those who live with chronic diseases such as diabetes, KOL or arthritis. It's a million Danes. First of all, we must prevent them from going in and out of the hospital. It is the government's aim that the number of emergency admissions should be reduced by 20%. And for the 260,000 Danes who have cancer, the chance to survive must be higher. We have set the new and ambitious goal that three out of four cancer patients should be alive five years after they have been diagnosed with cancer. Today, only a little more than half of them live that long. It is far too few and fewer than in Norway, Sweden and Finland. The government wants to invest in better health. Next year we'll be spending 1⁄2 billion. kr. extra, the next 3 years about 11⁄2 billion. kr. extra each year. That's a total of 5 billion. kr. over 4 years planned and financed. And that is on top of the extra money that the regions have already received in the economic agreement. We can do all this because we are pursuing an economic policy in which we put money aside to develop public services. Health is getting better. We live longer. That's good. But when we get older, more people are also affected by dementia. It's a terrible disease. Imagine how insecure it must feel when the outside world becomes incomprehensible and the words disappear. Today, some 90,000 people suffer from Alzheimer's or other dementias, and in the future they will be even more. The government will spend 100 million. kr. extra on that people with dementia get a better everyday life. There must also be money for this. Dementia can have many expressions. Some people get angry, others become passive. It takes knowledge of dementia to care for people with different needs. Therefore, employees must be better trained to provide the very care that the individual needs. The homes also need to be designed to provide security in a world that feels more and more confusing. It can be as simple as painting doors and walls in different colors so that residents do not get lost. For many people with dementia, the family is the fixed point. Husbands and children may also give too much of themselves. They must have the opportunity to hold on to their own lives. The next of kin need to be relieved better. People can't be put on a standard form fortunately. Therefore, we also need to talk more openly about the problems that come when your spouse or parents get dementia. We need to see the human being behind the disease. We should not act over the head of the elderly. I want a public sector for the citizen; hospitals and doctors who put the patient at the centre; a school where different children learn in different ways; and a care for the elderly that takes into account that we do not grow old in the same way. Every day nurses, doctors, SOSU assistants, teachers, educators and many, many more do a lot of work to make it possible. You have the joint task of working with people • people who need a helping hand. They'll get it from you. We have to take responsibility for each other. This is what the two out of three Danes who participate or have participated in voluntary work do. They make a very concrete difference to other people; to the girl or boy who learns to play football; to the elderly, who goes for a walk in the woods; to the homeless, who gets a meal. And the voluntary effort also goes higher than that. You have to look for a country where people have as much confidence in each other as we do in Denmark. Why are we so comfortable with other people? I have no doubt that voluntary Denmark is one of the explanations. Here we meet face to face. We do a task shoulder-to-shoulder with people who are perhaps older or younger, from the other end of the country or from a completely different environment. We learn to respect those who are not like us. The volunteers do a lot for many. What can we do for volunteers? The government has asked them that. And we will follow their advice. If a lawyer on early retirement wants to spend 8 hours every Monday at a shelter for women, she is now paid early retirement because you can only do 4 hours of voluntary work a week. We're moving that line to 15 hours now. If a schoolteacher cooks once a month at a homeless café, he must today have a 3-day course in food hygiene. We are removing that requirement now, just as we are removing paperwork. In future, the swimming club will not have to make a workplace assessment for the volunteers who train a team on Tuesday evening. We have listened to the 2 million Danes who make a voluntary effort. They deserve our respect, they How do we give the many opportunities and the freedom for a better life? Through education. It is 200 years since Denmark introduced compulsory education. A milestone was set then in 1814. In 2014 we will set a new milestone. I am pleased that a broad majority in this Parliament has shown the power to adopt the new primary school. Last month I visited Katrinebjergskolen in Aarhus. Here the first class is learning English, in a 4th class homework café I talked to a girl who had improved on the multiplication, and the 8th class teaches about the periodic system by jumping around the schoolyard and putting notes with elements in the right boxes. Throughout Denmark, 570,000 pupils and their teachers are in full swing creating a new primary school also by tackling the stones that are always on new roads. On our vocational training courses, teachers and school leaders are preparing for a new start for their 130,000 pupils. Pipers, painters and sales assistants must have the training and respect they deserve with more and better education. The next step will be high school. Before, the graduation was for the elite. Today it is a folk education. In this way, the high schools are a success story. Many implement, more read on, and they do it faster than before. But there are also challenges. Remember Emil? Emil has received a new primary school, and he has drawn attention to the fact that he will choose vocational training after primary school. As many have probably guessed, Emil is not an only child. Emil has a sister Sofie. Where's Sofie gonna go after primary school? Sofie is happy to go to school and plans to continue studying, perhaps at university, and then high school is the right choice. But it's not easy for Sofie to choose the right entrance to high school. She's not sure what she wants after that. She is interested in social studies and history, and she would also like to have English and drama, but she does not know that mathematics is required to enter many higher education courses. social sciences. It may be a problem for Sofie and her peers to see through the many different courses of study. And it can be hard for the parents to know that from experience. The consequence is that for many people they get a Baccalaureate which they cannot use to get directly into the education they want. Then they must take supplementary courses. The government will improve and simplify high schools. We will take action in three areas: firstly, we will make it easier for students to choose the right direction of study. The structure must be clearer and with fewer directions, and the students must have the right subjects and levels when using their exams to continue their studies. Secondly, we want to strengthen the professional level. We will make intermediate-level mathematics compulsory for more, and students need more and better individual help for the written tasks. Each individual must have the guidance of the teacher that is needed. Thirdly, the school year should be better spent especially in the first and second g, where the students do not have so many exams. Here there must be less reading holidays and more teaching, so that the students become even more skilled. We want to change the high schools so that they can live up to what has always been their task, namely to prepare young people for higher education from dental technician to primary school teacher to engineer. Young people have the courage to read on so much that this year they have again beaten the record of admissions. Never have so many got a study place • 64,397, to be exact. Denmark's young people take responsibility for their future. The government also takes responsibility. We have set the goal that our children and young people should be the best educated generation in Danish history. We're the government that invests most in education ever 9 billion. kr. extra for education and SU since we stepped in. We are developing our education and our society. We can do that because we are not in favour of zero growth. The Denmark we pass on to our children must be better than what we ourselves received from our parents. This applies to our economy, to our welfare, and to our nature. Therefore, the government has an economic 2020 plan that ensures that the money fits. We have set social 2020 targets, so that welfare also reaches the most disadvantaged citizens: homeless, vulnerable children, violence-stricken women. And now we come with a 2020 plan for our nature. How often do you think the Danes use nature? 110 million times in a year. We walk in the woods, go to the beach or watch birds. Nature is the place we prefer to spend our spare time. That is why nature is also part of our rich community life, of public health and of school education. Nature characterizes us as people; Denmark's landscapes are in our visual art, songs and music. Our forests and beaches are part of Denmark's history, and they must also be part of Denmark's future. I want a Denmark where we both live a modern life and have a rich nature. But the green balance does not come by itself. In the '00s, nature was worn out, but we will correct that with a new Nature Plan Denmark. We must look after our heaths, lakes and bogs. That's why we ban spraying and fertilizer in those places. The natural areas must not be destroyed, and that is why we have to pay if we break the rules; we are raising the fines. We also need more nature. Today, meadows and forests are like isolated islands on the map of Denmark. In the future, they will be bound together by new natural areas that give the Danes new experiences. The government will invest in nature • 195 million. kr. extra over 3 years for nature's sake, for our own sake and for our children's sake. In the Faroe Islands and Greenland, whaling is part of the way of life and culture, and the catch takes place on a sustainable basis with respect for nature. Three weeks ago Greenland's whale quotas were secured. It is a result of Greenland's and Denmark's joint work on the matter. We did it because we went together. The Community of Kingdoms is making us bigger, and I am pleased that the fisheries dispute between the Faroe Islands and the European Union has now been resolved. I hope that this autumn's negotiations on herring quotas in the North Atlantic will also be constructive. The Faroe Islands and Greenland face major economic challenges. There will be more older and fewer people to work, and costs will rise. New revenue and reforms are needed to ensure a sustainable economy. We work together to strengthen the Faroese and Greenlandic business community. For example: The government suggests that the Growth Fund can grant loans to companies throughout the Danish community. The Kingdom is bound together by our culture, by our history and by families and friendships that keep our community alive and strong. Of course, we are also three different countries. At present there will be elections to the Landsting in Greenland on 28 November. We are now awaiting the outcome of the elections and the formation of a new local government. Today we enter a new parliamentary year. In 3 years we have brought Denmark forward • Denmark as a whole. We have left behind the worst of the crisis. But we're not in the finish line. Now is the time for us to hold on and not put the results at risk. In the new year, we must look forward. We must make the choices that shape our common future. I want a Denmark that takes international responsibility, where we cooperate actively, help the world and protect ourselves. I want a Denmark where we get the best educated generation in our history. We are now building on our reforms of primary and vocational education and we will make a good high school better. I want a Denmark with free and equal access to health. We're investing 5 billion. kr. e.g. better treatment for cancer. I want a united Denmark with care and security. The government has set a clear direction. We want a Denmark where we look after each other, so the country we pass on to the next generations is stronger and safer than what we took over ourselves. Let us begin the new parliamentary year by making a living for our country. Denmark live! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray!
ParlaMint-DK_20141007124633	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20141007124638	Before the end of the sitting, there are three submissions. Minister for Finance (Bjarne Corydon): Bill No. L 1 (Proposal for a Finance Act for the financial year 2015), Bill No. L 2 (Proposal for a law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2018) and Bill No. L 3 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial years 2014-2017). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 8 October 2014, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda published on the Danish Parliament's website.
