ParlaMint-DK_20141120100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a mortgage institution for loans to owner-occupied dwellings and commercial property in outlying areas). Lars Dohn (EL) and Rosa Lund (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a better indoor climate in primary and lower secondary schools). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 19 November 2014, the Committee on Culture presented: Report on the conservation of the DR Entertainment Orchestra in the new public service contract. 1. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100059	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100136	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100152	First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Brian Mikkelsen, who could not be here. Today, according to the rules in force, documents must be kept in this country in respect of documents and documents stored electronically, and now it is possible that the last... [Sound emission]... may take place abroad. It will certainly be beneficial for branches... [Sound Outfall]... groups, and it will certainly provide an administrative relief. We certainly have no objection to that in the Left. In addition, we stress that the proposal does not restrict the access of the authorities to the information and to the annexes. Access is still the same. So, with those comments, we in the Left can fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100253	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Thomas Jensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100259	L 51 is another bill from this government that makes everyday life easier for Danish companies. With the bill we take stock of the technological development and use it to remove an administrative burden for Danish companies. We do this because it is important for Danish companies and thus for the rest of Danish society that we constantly have a modern business policy. The amendment of the Accounting Act means that Danish companies no longer have to apply for exemption in order to store their accounting material electronically abroad. The requirement is simply that the accounting material is available from Denmark, online. As I have said, the change in the law is a natural consequence of technological developments, where accounting material is currently stored digitally. To put it bluntly, it is less important where the server is located than where the books are located. This change therefore saves both companies and authorities administrative burdens. It is therefore basically a very sensible proposal, but perhaps we would not have been aware of the problem at all if it had not been for the Corporate Forum for simpler rules. This is where the idea is born, and we appreciate it. Close cooperation with the business community means that we can make better and less troublesome regulation, which is why, of course, we continue to listen to the good proposals that come from the Business Forum. It is also good to see that Danish Business and Danish Industry are positive, and it is particularly good to see that Danish Accountants praise the proposal, because it is their members in particular that it is important in everyday life. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Socialists are committed to creating the best possible conditions for Danish companies. It must be easy to run a business in Denmark, so that companies can focus on increasing productivity and thus increasing their competitiveness vis-à-vis abroad. The Socialists can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100445	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100452	But there is little new to add, other than that it is a legislative proposal which helps to limit one of the administrative burdens that a number of Danish companies have, among other things. in the case of accounting, annual accounts, quarterly accounts, etc. It is true that if you look at the way the technology is developing, it is quite logical that this proposal should of course ensure that the law is also in relation to the technological developments which are taking place and which are still going on. Many people know about cloud computing today and know that it is the case that you don't really know where your information is, you just know that you have it. The latter is, of course, very sensible and wise. After all, this helps to avoid an administrative burden because you saw, among other things. as in this case, do not need to apply for it if your information should be on a foreign server or elsewhere. What is just important for public Denmark is, of course, in the case of bankruptcies and everything else, that you are also able to provide the data needed for individual companies, and that you will still have regular access to your own data, for example with your own passwords, as described in this case. to its own digital platform. But it is an administrative burden that disappears. We think this is sensible and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100625	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Ida Auken as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100632	This bill has been examined a few times, so I do not need to spend any more time on anything other than saying that the Radical Left is happy to support a legislative proposal which both relieves the administrative burdens on companies and which is a sign that we are actually listening to what companies themselves point to of things that can be changed to make their lives easier, and then, of course, ensures that we still have public access to this information so that we can check the things that need to be checked. So all in all: the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100703	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100710	Thank you. It's one of the easy days for the minister, I think. The SF also supports the proposal. It is a simplification, as others have said. The only thing on which I think one can focus meaningfully is that there must be certainty that the control of the authorities under new conditions actually works. I do not think you should tell people that it will be the same, because it is clear that there is a difference between them lying in a paper pile in your own country or they are on a server in another country. That is why it is important to build up the systems that suit the reality we find ourselves in. I guess we're just making a reality orientation of legislation according to how the world works.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Frank Aaen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100806	It is obvious that when we see such a proposal as this, we are looking immediately for whether it increases the possibility that companies can cheat and deceive and avoid providing the information that the authorities are entitled to see. There is no indication that a requirement that it should be in paper form in a company offers better opportunities for the authorities in relation to searching for a server and finding them there. That is why, of course, we support this proposal on the condition that the authorities have the opportunity to have access to the information wherever they are in the world. After all, we do not even know where our data is, so I wonder if it is possible for companies to put their data out as long as we have the opportunity for the authorities to have access to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100914	I'll be brief. We think this is a very good legislative proposal which we can wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100921	The Conservative rapporteur was prevented and covered by the Left rapporteur, so that is the Minister for Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120100932	I should like to thank you for your overwhelming support for this proposal. There is no need to polemicise a lot here, but perhaps I should stress something again to reassure those who might be concerned about whether this opens up access to further tax speculation or other. We are reasonably assured that this proposal will not make it easier. And we are reasonably assured that the proposal is not reckless. But some total guarantee that people do not abuse the Danish system can of course never come along. Some of the irony is that every time we make it easier for business and less burdensome to register companies and make accounting and manage finances and other things, we also make it a little easier for those who want to abuse it, but then they have to become the better places we have to keep an eye on them. At least that's government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101035	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101049	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Business and Growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101109	The Left has proposed the introduction of specific rules on merger control in the telecommunications market, so that not only the current turnover thresholds for merger control but whether one of the undertakings concerned is in a dominant position on the telecommunications market. Today the merger control rules are such that the total turnover of the acquired or merged companies must be more than 900 million. kr. and that each of the participants in the merger or acquisition must have a turnover of more than 100 million. kr. The government is very concerned about ensuring competition in the telecommunications sector. As a follow-up to the •Better broadband and mobile coverage throughout Denmark • From 2013 onwards, we have launched a thorough analysis of competition in the broadband market, such as: look at the rules on merger control. The final analysis is currently under way, and we need to strengthen merger control. We have seen examples of purchases in the telecommunications market which may have had an impact on competition in the market, but which have fallen below the lower limit of the current rules on merger control of the 100 million. kr. In view of this, the Government agrees with the intention of the Left's proposal, but does not consider that the specific elements of the motion for a resolution concerning inter alia: The dominant position is quite right. We already have rules in the Competition Act to ensure that companies do not abuse their dominant position to distort competition. In this case, the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority already has the opportunity to intervene. Where the government sees the need to intervene is in situations where large telecommunications companies buy up, for example. smaller competing companies and where competition may be harmed as a result of the acquisition. That is why we propose that the independent telecommunications authority, which, in accordance with the specific EU rules, also applies competition in the telecommunications sector, should be given the power to refer cases of acquisition in the telecommunications market to the Competition and Consumer Authority for merger control purposes in accordance with the general rules of the Competition Act. Our proposal gives the relevant authorities the opportunity to take action to distort competition in the telecommunications market, even where a larger telecommunications company buys a smaller telecommunications company, but where the acquisition will not be subject to merger control because turnover is below the current limits. The Government will therefore put forward a draft law on enhanced merger control in the telecommunications sector. However, it cannot enter into force as early as 1 January. 1 January, as we have to observe the general deadlines for consultation. In these words, I look forward to a constructive discussion not only of the motion for a resolution but also of the government's forthcoming legislative proposals here in the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101416	Thank you, Minister. Is there a question? There was a brief remark from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101427	I don't know if the sound works from down here. That's what we're trying to do. I would like to sign for the Minister's receipt of the proposal. I have to say that there is support for the intentions, and I am pleased that there can then be elements and corners that can be screwed up differently. I am very prepared to see that when the government then comes up with a concrete bill. I would like to know if the Minister has a timetable for when the government expects to make the concrete proposal just so that we are a little more on track in relation to it. Because that is something the government has promised for a little longer, and that is one of the reasons for the resolution. I think the first time some of this analysis work was announced by the government was in the spring of 2013, and then it's been pushed. So I would like to ask what the Minister's expectations of a timetable are.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101529	We are only weeks away from publishing the final analysis, and then we will have to draw up a concrete proposal, and I expect that can be done fairly quickly. So right at the beginning of the new year, I will be counting on us to have a more or less concrete proposal which I would like to call on the parties to discuss so that we can see whether we are hitting absolutely correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101548	Thank you. Then I thank the Minister. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120101611	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising an important issue. It is in many ways a sympathetic proposal, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen and the co-sponsors have tabled. We in the Socialists also believe that it is important to promote infrastructure-based competition in the telecommunications sector, and we are pleased to discuss the rules for sector-specific merger control. Let me make it clear that the broadband market in Denmark could work better, both in terms of competition and prices. That is not because it is news, because the discussion on new rules for buying and merging broadband is what one might call an old travert. The discussion usually flares up when there has been the acquisition of one of the largest players in the market, TDC. Over the last 10 years, as you know, TDC acquired Song Networks A/S in 2004, DONG Fibernet in 2009 and Comics in 2013. In this respect, I note that, despite the tightening of merger control rules in 2010, there has been no significant improvement in competition in the broadband market or any further acquisition by the market's largest player. Not least that is why the government launched a study on competition in the broadband market last year and I understand that the report is expected to be published very soon, and we really do see Unfortunately there are no roses without thorns, and although, as I said, I have great sympathy with parts of the proposal, it also contains a few inappropriate things. First of all, the deadline for the implementation of the legislation is already 1 January 2015, and that is simply not realistic, because we cannot achieve that at least if we are to have time to do proper preparatory work and comply with the normal consultation deadlines. And there is no need for urgent legislation here. Secondly, it has to be said that the motion for a resolution is not a concrete one. It is quite understandable, as an opposition party, that you do not have the same access to information as you do when you can go to ministries. There is also a good tradition for us to pull these forces from a political point of view and put ourselves together to find a solution. However, I think it is important that we get a good solution rather than a quick solution. In fact, when the rules on merger control were changed in 2010, it did not happen until a few years after the government's own merger committee had made their recommendations. But it's history now. However, I do not think it should be two years before we take a decision on the basis of the forthcoming report on the competitive situation, and fortunately I also understand from the Minister that this will happen quickly. However, it is important that we have a proper discussion on how to improve the competitive situation. Against this background, the Socialists support the aim and purpose of the proposal, but we do not believe that it is realistic to make proper legislative work within the timeframe set by the proposers and then we cannot support the proposal in its present form. In the past, we have seen that the 2010 tightening down of the turnover limit of a merged company has not worked as intended. That is why the Socialists do not believe that it is enough simply to lower the limit once again. The Minister now intends to put forward the government's proposals to improve merger control in the telecommunications sector, as we have just heard. The proposal will make it possible to take action against all anti-competitive acquisitions, and I hope that we will find a very good solution, and let us do so together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102008	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102020	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign the motion for a resolution. I would also like to admit that the Socialist rapporteur may have a point in that it is with a rather short timescale if you are going to have this fully phased in per year. 1 January 2015. But we do support it now, and we do support it, among other things. Having regard to the fact that we really think that the government has had plenty of time to put this in place, among other things. in view of the fact that the government, as also stated in the comments on the proposal, was already in March 2013 in the context of the agreement on better broadband and mobile coverage throughout Denmark, which came in March 2013, found that this was a challenge to be addressed, and it should have been in place now, because this amendment of the law is not so complicated either. In the Danish People's Party we are interested in the fact that there will also be free competition in the future, and also a competition that is It is something that is under pressure if we do not get something like this in place in law, compared to those who own the infrastructure on our IT and telecommunications solutions. And that is precisely the reason why we want this sector-specific merger control to be carried out throughout the telecommunications market. So the Danish People's Party can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102156	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jeppe Mikkelsen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102203	Thank you for the floor, President. I will be brief because I think most of the points have already been made. The telecommunications sector is a special sector when it comes to competition. You can see that very clearly when you look at the neat regulatory framework that already exists in many areas and I also think there might be good reason to look at merger control in this area. There may of course be different reasons for this, both for accounting, but of course also for specific geographical reasons, when we are talking about broadband roll-out. So I would like to congratulate the authors and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen for this proposal, which has a very good intention, an intention that the Minister for Business and Growth has also told us that the government will deliver on and make a proposal on. We may have a slightly different model for it, and we may not be able to quite deliver it either. In January, but we look forward to the debate on this resolution, because we share the intention behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Steen Gade as SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102306	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make a recital which does not really concern the proposal. More than 20 years ago, there was a discussion here in the Danish Parliament about whether the broadband system should in fact be viewed at the time as a public good. One could not really get that together in time, but if we are to look at what is really important for the infrastructure of society as it works today, we must say that it would have been good to make the fibre network, as we then called it, or the broadband system, a publicly controlled and owned good. It's not. When that is the case, it is important that there is no monopoly in this area. It is important that there is competition. That is why we fully agree with the idea that merger control should be carried out. I am pleased that the Minister is following up the report which will be available in a few weeks' time. That is also what makes my answer: let us look at that proposal when that report is available and also take on board the things that lie here at that time. So that is what the proposers can get out of this proposal, namely that there is a willingness to enter into legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102441	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102450	Thank you. We stand as the only party outside the telecoms settlement back from 1999. I can tell you without surprise that I was not the rapporteur at the time. The background was that we basically believe that it is a state task to ensure that there is infrastructure so that all Danes can have quick Internet access. We also see today that it is still difficult to secure infrastructure, especially in rural areas. We have now, as sir. Steen Gade also mentioned something that looks like a private monopoly in the area. In this context, we agree with the proposers that it is quite wise to exercise stricter control than the one we have today when it comes to mergers. I understand from the debate here that there has been some progress and that there is also a broad consensus in the Folketing. That is why I would just like to say that we want to take a positive view of the bill that I understand the government is on the move. In the same way, we also welcome the motion for a resolution that is here, but can we not meet in some big brotherhood in the Folketing for something that will then become law? I'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102614	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102622	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Left is bringing an important issue into this Chamber. The telecommunications market and the fact that there is a well-functioning infrastructure in this area are extremely important. Each year, the World Economic Forum publishes a report showing how ready different countries are to apply the latest telecommunications technologies. Unfortunately, Denmark has fallen down the rankings in recent years. Ten years ago, we were in third place. Now we're in a 13th place. In the last year alone we have fallen five seats. All the other Nordic countries are in the top 5. It is extremely important that the infrastructure and competition in the telecommunications sector are well functioning. For example, it has. It is important for the health sector to be able to exploit the latest technologies, whether companies can be competitive, and whether citizens in general can also exploit new technologies that emerge at home in their own private homes. In the Liberal Alliance, we are sitting right now looking at how infrastructure has been implemented in different countries. It has been done differently in England and Sweden and Norway and in the Netherlands. But what is clear to us is that we want to ensure free competition, because it benefits the citizens. So we have the greatest, greatest sympathy for the Left's proposal. It may well be that we come to the same conclusion in this specific area that the Left has come to, but since we are working on it ourselves right now, I cannot vote in favour of the resolution right now. First, we need to be completely clear about which strategy we think is best. It must be understood that we are very, very positive, and we think it is extremely important that action is taken in this area, also quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102836	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, whom I understand also covers the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120102845	I can start by saying that the Conservative People's Party agrees with the Left in the proposal. Then it's settled. The reason why we on the Left have tabled this motion for a resolution is also reflected in some of the rapporteur's speeches which have been made here from the platform. It is incredibly important for Danish society that we not only have a well-developed telecommunications market and a strong infrastructure, but also a strong competition, so that we as consumers experience that the opportunities of technology can be achieved at a competitive price. There is no doubt that the better we ensure competition, the better conditions we experience as consumers. For broadband is an integral part of Danish society. We all use it; it is very important for companies; it is very important for all of us in our everyday lives; it makes a lot of things easier. Then, of course, it is also crucial that the whole regulatory setup supports not only a market in which it is attractive to invest, but also a market in which we as consumers benefit from competition. That is simply why we have tabled the proposal. The telecommunications market differs in so many ways from a number of other markets because the technology is different because access to the product for the individual user is different from simply going down into the farm and buying a litre of milk. That is why there is also a very special regulation of the telecommunications market. It is not necessarily because it must be an end in itself to having sector-specific regulation. I would like us to be able to move to more general regulation, but since the market is still characterised by a number of conditions which do not apply in other areas, we still need to resort to regulation which is slightly different in the telecommunications market compared with so many other areas. That is also why we in the Left say that we need an opportunity to be more specific when it comes to merger control in the telecommunications market than in other markets. I must, of course, thank you for the debate and be very pleased with the largely unanimous acceptance of the proposal. Its intentions are shared by the Folketing. I am delighted, and that is what I think is central. With regard to what Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Socialists said, there may be something about how concrete it is and that there may be challenges in being opposition when making proposals. That is quite correct. That is why we have tabled it as a motion for a resolution and not as a legislative proposal. In fact, I believe that we always serve the people's rule and the quality of the law best by the fact that the opposition is tabling resolutions, and if there is a majority for them, the government must put forward legislative proposals that come into consultation and that ensure a proper quality of law. There are a few hundred civil servants to differ as to what you can do as an opposition party and government. I am just saying this to emphasise that this is the normal way we work. I will take note of the fact that we agree on the intentions and, of course, I hope that when the government makes the proposal announced by the Minister, it will also reflect the intentions of this and deliver what is crucial. After all, as the author of the proposal, I am concerned that this is being realized and that we are ensuring that there are no mergers that impede competition, and that is what matters to me. That is why I would like to thank you for the debate and support and, of course, also expect that when the government makes its proposal, it will hopefully include what has been the intention here, and otherwise we will of course continue to press on from the Left to ensure what is the purpose. Now that there is such broad support for the intentions, I hope that it will be implemented as well. That is why, of course, we will follow the proposal announced by the government closely and also be aware that what the Minister has said will happen quickly and will not be allowed to pull, so that there will be no undue delay before we can put into effect a regime that ensures one of the guiding principles of Danish telecommunications policy, namely infrastructure-based competition. I know that this sounds a little technical, so that consumers see that they can have their services delivered on different platforms and that the various technologies are helping to compete with each other. This will probably lead to much better competition than if prices are regulated. It is certainly something more difficult. Genuine free competition comes very much when it is infrastructure-based competition • it is fiber, it is mobile, it is copper networks, it is cable television networks that compete with each other. Then we will have better competition, and that is what we want to promote, and I hope that will also be reflected in the proposal announced by the government. That is why I look forward to that proposal coming, but we will of course follow it very closely and ensure that the intentions that we in the Left have raised with this resolution are also realised in the proposal announced by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120103438	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120103501	As you know, this motion for a resolution is the responsibility of Parliament and, of course, as co-author on behalf of the Bureau, I shall follow the debate with a view to further consideration. The debate is open. Sir. Kristian Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120103533	This proposal is not like the other proposals we are debating and for those who may be sitting and watching the debate, I can say that it is rare that there is a legislative proposal or resolution which all parties in the Folketing are behind. This proposal is about how we do the political work in here. The standing committees in the Folketing are such the political workshops, it is where the legislation is examined, tested and amended to suit the political objectives that the majority of the Folketing would like. That is why the work of our committee is quite crucial to the quality of the law that we have in Denmark. At the same time, the Political Affairs Committees are the place of political squabbles, where ministers are held responsible for their duties and where all citizens have the right to come and have 15 minutes to express their views in an appearance. There's actually a lot of the political work in this house that's going on in our committee. That is why I am also pleased that we have now succeeded in bringing together all the parties for an agreement on the future distribution of committee posts. I have just spoken that I have discussed this issue with five different Socialist Group chairmen, from Mr. Carsten Hansen to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, before we arrived at the first reading of the proposal today. With the proposal, we are redistributing who will be the chairman and vice-chairman of a committee. In other words, it is a much more equal distribution of who actually sits and manages the work of the committees than it has historically been, where it has been the majority group in the Folketing that had occupied most of the Committee's posts. We believe that this will result in greater dispersal of tasks. We in the Left also believe that this will help to improve the climate of cooperation between the members of parliament. We have then excluded a few presidency posts from the distribution. This means that the government's electoral group will continue to occupy the chair of the Finance Committee and the Chair of the Foreign Policy Group, while the opposition's electoral group will occupy the seats of the European Committee and the delegation to the Nordic Council respectively. I would like to thank all the group chairmen for their cooperation, which has been good and trusting. There has been good agreement on the objective of a new distribution key and, although we have spent quite a lot of time achieving it, it has been done in a very good form. And I look forward to having the new key used after the forthcoming elections. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120103809	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen as the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120103818	Thank you. Well, it is true that there have been five group presidents, and I am one of the lucky ones, because I have hardly done anything, but I get to stand here and take all the credit for it. That's amazing. If it could just keep going like that, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Kristian Jensen, that I am certainly looking forward to this work. It is very, very nice to be in this situation, as Mr. Kristian Jensen said where all the group chairmen and thus the groups agree that we must have a better and more democratic solution than we have had up to now and that we must distribute the positions of committee chairmen in a proper and good way. We are also saying that it is not right for a small majority to actually be able to sit on virtually every presidency they wish to hold, and we have seen some very serious examples of this over time, and I think it is very, very good that we agree here that this is not going well. I will not spend so much time on how to work in the committees. That's where the engine room is, and sir does. Kristian Jensen spent a lot of time on. I would just like to say that it is a clear advantage for the opposition to be able to sit down in some of the Committee Chairs. That's where you can move something. That's where you can start a job. Much of it is work that you don't see in the living rooms, and it's often work that you don't know about. And that's why this isn't just a little thing. It's not a thing that many people in the living rooms are interested in... I don't believe in... but it's something that matters a lot in here, and it's something that will strengthen democracy, and it's something that will make this work much, much better. On behalf of the Social Democrats and on behalf of my four predecessors, who have been working hard on this, I would also like to thank all the group chairmen, and thank all the groups. I think it's really, really good and really nice that we can agree on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104004	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104012	We could then be tempted to say that it is almost embarrassing to stand here because I am neither the chairman nor the chairman nor anything in this regard. I have not participated in any of the negotiations at all, but I am the guard here in the Danish Parliament today, and I have, as I have seen on behalf of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, promised to say that it has been a pleasure to be involved in these negotiations. We are, of course, pleased that this is a solution that all parties can support. This is something that has been debated many times in our group, I can tell you, because I have been involved in that after all. And, of course, it has also been in demand, especially in relation to how you do it in many municipalities, and where we can see that when you have to negotiate and distribute posts in the municipalities after a town council election and a regional council election, it is often quite a war that is going on. After all, it hasn't been like this in here. Perhaps that is because the Presidents are unpaid, I do not know, but that could be one of the reasons why it has been possible to find a common system. But, of course, I think it is very reasonable that we have now reached an agreement which also ensures that there is a balanced distribution of the seats of the Standing Committees here in the Folketing, which will, of course, take effect from the next parliamentary term. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104120	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lone Loklindt as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104135	On the part of the Radical Left, we are also very pleased with this proposal. As a member of the Bureau, I am a co-author of this, but I must also say, as previous speakers have said, that the hard work of reaching agreement through long discussions I have not actually participated in. It is, in fact, a milestone in relation to the work being done here in the Folketing that we now have a Rules of Procedure which, from the next elections, means that we will be allocated presidencies and Vice-Presidents in proportion to the position of the parties in the Folketing. So this also means that we are avoiding a situation that we had in the 00s, where we had a government that almost sat down on everything except a few posts, and that, after all, gave a very uneven distribution, because there is a great difference in having to run a committee work where all parties have the same rights to participate, the same rights to participate, and then to represent some government parties which, of course, sometimes have some particular wishes. And now I think we're going to have a way of distributing that work so that everyone can have a share of responsibility. It is also a responsibility to ensure that the work of the committees is impartial in that way, that everyone has equal say and that everyone can influence the work that has to be done in the committees. Of course, we must not simply be chairman when we are chairman; there are initiatives that we can take, but always with regard to and respect for the members of the committee. So the Radical Left is very pleased that we are now getting a proposal on which there is agreement in advance all around and which can then enter into force after the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104342	Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Steen Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104349	Thank you. I think it is a good thing in the Folketing that, before an election, some lines are laid down on how to deal with some of the things that have been discussed on an ongoing basis after an election. And then we will rejoice together that we have agreed on this. We should not put another matter on the agenda here, nor should I do so, but I think it would have been beautiful if this Parliament had also agreed to introduce a consultative institution which could be left to the next Parliament. But there we have a couple of parties, the Prime Minister's Party and the party that expects to become Prime Minister's Party, which, in a way, is sticking a stick in the wheel so that what I am sure there will be a large majority for us ordinary Members of Parliament will be implemented so that it could enter into force after an election. Back to this case. It is an interesting story that is here, and I have enjoyed it a little. We can be pleased that the Left became very small in 1973 because otherwise this had been introduced in the way that the winner takes it all. That is how Anker Jørgensen started with the fact that it would be the ruling majority that got all standing committees. But then I was able to read the papers here. I thought it was fun to read that when the Left gets the power of government in the narrow Left Government, there simply aren't enough members to get the presidency, and then the good tradition arises that you start negotiating it. That is why we have had all the years in which we have negotiated it and fought a little about it. And the worst thing, as the previous rapporteur rightly said, was that the former Prime Minister of the Left, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, took the most of the courts at that time. We have come to something sensible, I would say, and I actually agree with what the current rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Kristian Jensen, says about the agreements that are so in the air about the distribution of the posts that are not included in this bill. So full support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104619	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104625	After all, we are also in the position of proposers and can also support the proposal. It can also be said that, in the case of the Enhedslisten, we have everything to gain, because we have no presidency today; so we look forward to getting our hands on one of these. It is quite true, as has been the subject of today's debate, that there is quite a lot of interest in working as chairman and vice-chairman of committees, and in all the work of the parliamentary committees, because one can help to set hearings in motion, initiate debates, help to shape the political agenda by virtue of the parliamentary committees. So I just want to say that we can support the proposal and look forward to trying with this new method.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104713	Thank you. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104723	Thank you. I hope that those who see this will get a sense of what the debates would be like if we always had a pure consensus, because it is a little difficult to get it up and flying when all parties make a proposal together. After all, we are also co-sponsors and therefore, for obvious reasons, are also in favour of the proposal. I guess that's the best you can do, so to speak. There is something for the electoral union where the governing parties and the supporting parties will be involved, and then there may be one or more opposition electoral groups in addition, which can then have some presidencies as well. In fact, and this has nothing to do with the current government or the previous government or the future government, we would like to see it done in such a way that there could not be the chairmen of parties who were in the government that was in office at any time. For it is always the case for the members of the Folketing that it is better to have committee chairmen who are not members of a government party. Support parties? Okay. However, the governing parties are always a little too kind to ministers, so if it were such an ideal and we should have a debate, the Liberal Alliance would prefer that government parties never chair. However, the proposal before us seems to us to be a good compromise between the various interests, and we think it is a good thing that we also ensure that the various opposition groups, which may be, are represented in the chair. By the way, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Steen Gade, that I agreed with the views on the consultative institution that could have been introduced. We are also sorry that they have not done so. I think, however, that Mr. Steen Gade forgot one thing when he mentioned that it was the two prime ministers' parties that opposed it. As far as I remember, the representative of the DJF in this Chamber, the Radical Left, was also very interested in the fact that it was not introduced. But we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120104922	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I would like to express my thanks as co-author and on behalf of the Bureau for their support here, including from us. And in addition to that, as Mr. Kristian Jensen said about the importance of committee work, I can say that the Bureau has decided that on 4 February we have a conference with the participation of all the parties of the Folketing, precisely on the organisation of committee work, where we may also have some conclusions to point out after the next elections. I do not see any more who have asked to speak, so with these comments from up here the debate has ended. I propose that we refer the proposal to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120105028	I don't see the Minister of Education in the Chamber. Comment from the Chamber: Yes, but we actually need a minister. It is not, of course, a situation we are happy about, that is, when a minister cannot be present at his own legislative proposal. I may have to postpone the meeting. I'll postpone the meeting until 11:00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110001	Then we will continue the meeting, as the Minister of Education has now arrived. It is always a good idea if one of the many officials is assigned to follow Parliament's debates so that the ministers can be there when their proposals are discussed. I hope the sound is now better. The debate is open. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110041	Thank you, President. The aim of the proposal before us here is to make vocational training a more attractive provision for young people and to encourage employers to create more internships. In the context of collective renewal in the private labour market in 2014, the LO and DA have agreed that employers are obliged to finance the cost of board and lodging of vocational training students in boarding departments at vocational training institutions. The costs shall be borne in connection with pupils' stay at the school. The LO and the DA have expressed their wish that employers should be reimbursed by the AUB, by amending the law on employers' training contributions. The cost of the AUB is thus proposed to be financed by an increase in the employer's contribution to the AUB. The draft law introduces a reimbursement scheme so that employers from the AUB are reimbursed the cost of staying in the cost departments for vocational training students in connection with school stays. This should be seen in the context of the recent vocational school reform and all the initiatives taken with the social partners to make our vocational training more attractive. That is a very good purpose, and that is why the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110207	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110218	Thank you for that, President. We have a goal that as many young people as possible should have an education. We need more people to look for vocational training and we need to be better at ensuring that they can all get an internship. This bill is a small step in the right direction: an attempt to say that if there is a need for the young person to be mobile across our parts of the country, in other parts of the country, to apply for internships in other parts of the country, then it must be possible to fund his boarding school stay via the AUB, so that the local employer does not sit and think whether to take this student because it is becoming more expensive when he or she is now also going to be accommodated with board and lodging. It is a very good arrangement that we allocate the cost to all employers so that we ensure that the individual employer has an incentive to take the young person into learning and the young person actually has better opportunities to move according to where the places of work are. I welcome the fact that the draft law has been examined and that it has been broadly supported by the social partners. The Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110344	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110355	Thank you. After all, it is good that the social partners can conclude agreements that benefit vocational training. It says something about the strength of the Danish labour market model, and it is also the reason for this bill, where the Danish Employers' Association and the LO have agreed to make it more attractive to create internships. After all, the agreement requires that we in the Danish Parliament give employers the right to receive back money for those pupils who have to pay for board and lodging in the vocational school where they live when they are in school. The students often have a school stay far from the internship, and therefore they must have a place to live. Employers want to contribute to this; employers' training contributions, popularly known as AUB, to which all employers pay, must therefore be increased by DKK 51. a year. The bill will apply to all employers, which is fair, as everyone will then be lifting in flock. As the social partners themselves have wanted this increase and model, we in the Danish People's Party would like to support the bill. Basically, it makes it possible to get more young people to take on vocational training, hopefully, which will benefit Denmark, and we can only support that. So we turn our thumbs up to the bill from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110516	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs Lotte Rod as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110525	Thank you. We need more skilled skilled workers. We are well in the process of the new vocational school reform, and here comes another small, yet important, proposal. Some students have a long way to go to school, which is why there is an opportunity to stay at the school around them. At the same time, pupils and employers also have the opportunity to choose a school which is a little further away if it fits the profile better. So far, there has been a barrier to the company having to pay for the student's stay in the boarding department, and this may have prevented some from taking a student. By doing so free of charge we hope and believe that more pupils will take vocational training, perhaps also at a school a little further away, while there is now an excuse less for companies not to take an apprentice. In the Radical Left, we are pleased that the parties themselves have helped to find the solution. It is the Danish Employers' Association and the Danish National Association itself that have agreed with each other that employers must pay for their stay. In this context, they have wanted employers to be able to recover their expenses from employers' training contributions, and that is what we have listened to and which we are making a reality with this proposal. In the Radical Left we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110649	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur for the SF, and then it is Mrs Stine Brix as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110709	Thank you. I can say that we in the Enhedslisten also support the bill. As several speakers have said, this is a legislative proposal which reduces the costs for employers who have pupils on board in school homes. At the same time, employers' contributions to employers' training contributions are increased slightly so that employers share the overall costs. We hope that this bill will mean that more internships can be created for those pupils in vocational schools who today find it difficult to get an internship, and that is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110749	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs Merete Riisager as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120110755	Thank you. Many of the people who have created the prosperity that we now enjoy in Denmark have received a practical training. They have been taught, and then they have created a company with what they have learned, both the practical and the theoretical knowledge that they have gained in the courses. We in the Liberal Alliance want even more young people to take vocational training in the future. In our view, it is a healthy and good principle that employers themselves help to pay for the training they make use of, among other things. by, of course, paying directly to the students when they are internship, but also by paying for the courses. It is very important that the costs incurred by the companies to the individual learner also run away with what the individual learner can deliver when he or she is in an internship. When there is an imbalance between the two things, and we have that at the moment, it means that there will be a shortage of internships. That is why we are also calling on the social partners to look at this balance, because there must be reasonableness in things, otherwise young people who are being slammed into school practice will suffer. And that is quite unsatisfactory for young people, and it also means that when they get out of their education, they may find it very difficult to compete with many of the young people who come from other European countries and who have to fight for the jobs that exist. Other countries do the internship challenge better than we do in Denmark, among others. in Switzerland, where you do not have the same internship challenge, including: because we have linked the relationship between education and business much closer together than we have in Denmark, and I think we should learn from that. In relation to the AUB contribution, it is very important that there is reasonableness at the level it has and that it does not just become such a screw that you can screw on when you think you need money. However, in relation to the present proposal, it is part of an agreement supported by the Liberal Alliance because, overall, it improves the Eud. One of the things we are really happy about with the big eud agreement is that you get improved opportunities to read on the so-called eux, which we expect a great deal of. As I said, we hope that the improvements currently being made to vocational training will mean that more young people will go that way in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111047	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm as Conservative rapporteur. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111055	Thank you for the floor. We have a common goal of getting more young people to undertake vocational training. Denmark needs this, and this bill makes a positive contribution to that agenda. The draft law contains a new reimbursement scheme in the law on employers' training contributions, based on an agreement renewal between the LO and DA in the private labour market. The essence of the draft law is that employers are obliged to finance the cost of accommodation and board for vocational training pupils at school establishments. The cost is then claimed to be refunded by the AUB. At the same time, employers' contributions to the AUB, which then finance both the new reimbursement scheme and the administration of the scheme, increase as agreed between the LO and the DA. In the Conservative People's Party, we are positive about the introduction of this new reimbursement scheme for employers, not least because we believe that many young people in vocational schools will benefit from it and that at the same time it will encourage employers to create more internships. We can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111207	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I have seen that Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen, as the SF rapporteur, has arrived in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111218	Thank you for letting me make my speech. Of course, I'm sorry I hadn't been able to keep an eye on the bell. We support the SF on this proposal for the AUB, and we do so because it puts together a shared responsibility. It is a joint responsibility where the LO and DA have gone in and have said that they want to commit themselves to securing this economy, so that more young people can get a part of the school at a boarding school and thus share the costs. What is important, of course, is that we have a diverse educational system in which it is as attractive for a young person to choose a vocational education as an academic education, and that is exactly what we want in the SF. In the agreement on better and more attractive vocational training from February, we supported in the SF that there should be more focus on vocational education and training. An important element of the agreement was that a number of qualified pupils should be able to complete vocational training from the outset, and in order to complete vocational training it is also necessary to have enough practical places throughout the country. And this is precisely the whole internship situation that we are quite concerned with, and for which I hope that even more will be involved in going in and taking joint responsibility, and that companies will also go in and take greater responsibility. So in the SF we believe that the bill we are discussing today is a step in the right direction in creating a good framework for companies to offer young people in vocational training an internship without it becoming a financial burden for the company concerned. In order to reduce the employer's costs by setting up an internship, this bill also presents the possibility for employers to apply for reimbursement of the cost of living in dietary departments. And it is in those situations where it is necessary for the pupil to be in a boarding department to complete his vocational training. We believe in the SF that it is sensible for employers' training contributions to be used to finance employers' expenses for their stay in dietary departments. So we think this is an important step in securing more internships. Companies go in and help take responsibility here. The LO and DA have been involved in this work, and that is why we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111452	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111500	I would like to thank you for the support for the bill that has been among all parties in the Folketing. It can be said that this is a small legislative proposal, but not yet, because it helps to give another signal of the very broad support that there is for us to really begin to develop vocational training as a very attractive route for many more young people, so that we get young people who want and have the courage to start vocational training, because there are better opportunities for internship, a training guarantee that is strengthened, and now also the signal to employers that when there are pupils who are ready to look a little further away from school, employers can also get that cost reimbursed. So it is a small but important piece of what we are all really interested in together in close cooperation with the social partners: providing the best opportunities for young people to start vocational training. That is what we need. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111558	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now I think we have a new problem with a missing minister. I would be sorry to interrupt the sitting again today. I think we have to ask for an apology from the Minister and for a follow-up to the parliamentary debates. Now I see that the Secretary of Defense has arrived. I have to repeat what I have said to the Minister for Education earlier today: that there must be officials in the ministries who are able, on behalf of the ministers, to follow the parliamentary debates so that the ministers can be present from the start of the examination of the proposals which concern them.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111914	The debate is open. Here you go, the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120111928	Thank you. Let me start by regretting that I didn't get here right to the start. With the motion for a resolution tabled, B 1, the authors of the Enhedslisten want the government to put forward a bill which makes it illegal for Danish authorities alone or in cooperation with foreign authorities to carry out mass surveillance if it involves monitoring without the judicial recognition of Danish citizens' communications. Let me say straight away that the government cannot support the proposal simply because it is already not legal for Danish authorities to carry out mass monitoring of Danes' communications. I will come back to that. Before that, I would like to mention that the motion for a resolution concerns issues which the Folketing has dealt with in the past, but I would like to take this opportunity to clarify again the views of the government in this area. The comments on the motion for a resolution refer, inter alia, to: to the Act on the FE, which is Denmark's foreign intelligence service, and so I would like to begin by adding some comments to the work of the intelligence service and to the control of it. We need to safeguard Danish interests and protect society from threats, which is why Denmark, like all other countries, needs a well-functioning and effective intelligence service. It is important to emphasise that FE's post-business business is aimed at conditions abroad. The electronic acquisition of FE is therefore not targeted at people resident in Denmark. Of course, FE also cooperates with other countries' intelligence services, other things would be wrong and not serve Denmark's interests. It is also clear from the FE Act that the FE has the possibility to share information with other services in accordance with specified rules. However, cooperation must always take place within the framework of Danish legislation, and the intelligence service cannot ask foreign services to do anything in Denmark that you cannot do yourself. All parties in the Folketing, except Enhedslisten, are behind the FE Act, which lays down FE's very important tasks with e.g.: help prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests and provide the business basis for Danish foreign, security and defence policy. This means, among other things, that the FE must constantly seek access to the communication used by the foreign objectives on which the FE obtains information. It can, for example, be done. be networks or other actors planning a cyber attack or a terrorist attack against Denmark. The developments and threats that may have an impact on Denmark's security are very much cross-border, and therefore close cooperation with intelligence services in other countries is crucial. This is true, for example. in the context of the fight against terrorism. FE's cooperation with foreign partners is essential in order for the FE to carry out its tasks, and cooperation gives FE a very important access to other countries' intelligence and analyses. The close mutual cooperation means that information is exchanged with the partners, where this may be of importance for the performance of the tasks of the FE or its partners, and a partner is therefore expected to make information available to the FE when such information, for example, is available to the FE. may have a particular impact on the assessment of the threat to Denmark and Danish interests. It is not possible here to go into how FE specifically solves its business tasks and obtains its information. Classified information of this nature gives the government, if appropriate, to the Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence, the so-called Control Committee. In order to carry out its work, FE must be able to use a wide range of methods and procedures. Therefore, it is clear from the comments to Section 3 of the FE Act that FE in its work is technology neutral. This means that FE can use all types of acquisition methods. It is also clear from the comments that the FE is responsible for using the methods of collection which, within the framework of the legislation, best support the FE's task. At the same time, I can state that both FE's own work and the services' cooperation with foreign partners must of course take place in accordance with Danish law. Thus, the Defence Intelligence Service itself or in cooperation with foreign partners cannot direct its electronic acquisition towards resident persons in Denmark, and so let me also make it clear that FE is obviously not allowed to carry out so-called mass monitoring of Danish citizens' communications. Similarly, FE must obviously not cooperate with foreign authorities to mass monitor the communication of Danish citizens. Also in the case of the transmission of information by FE to foreign partners, this must be done within the framework of Danish legislation. While it is in Denmark's interest to have effective intelligence services, it is of course also important that in a democratic society there is the necessary openness and control over the activities of the services and the conditions under which the services operate. As you know, in June 2013 the Danish Parliament adopted new legislation for the intelligence services and the control of those who entered into force in January of this year. The newly created oversight of the intelligence services is responsible for verifying the legality of the processing of data by the FE in Denmark. In connection with the new legislation on intelligence services and with amendments to the Law on the Control Committee, the Danish Parliament has decided to extend and strengthen its control and insight in the field of intelligence. Overall, control of FE has been strengthened. This applies both to the resources of supervision and to its independence and to its powers, and to parliamentary control has also been strengthened. The Parliament has therefore decided that a special committee, the Control Committee, may have access to the intelligence services, and I must therefore call for questions concerning the specific activities of the intelligence services to be brought up in the Control Committee if there is a wish to do so. Let me conclude by saying that, in this context, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120112708	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120112711	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the statement on the rules; it reminds us very much of a statement we have heard before in this Chamber, so we are now in the process of agreeing on what the Minister for Defence says the rules are. What this motion for a resolution is about is not what rules apply now or what the Defence Intelligence Service is doing, but what rules should apply, and I am not asking what is happening now, but asking to hear the Minister for Defence's political attitude on what should be the limits for cooperation between intelligence services. And this motion for a resolution means, of course, that we must not cooperate if it allows a mass monitoring of Danish citizens. Does the Minister for Defence and the Government not agree that we need legislation to ensure that it is not possible for collaborators to monitor Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120112817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120112819	I am glad that Mrs Pernille Skipper thinks that we now have an overview of what is going on. That's good. But then I think it would be even better for the Enhedslisten to recognise that there is no possibility that the Defence Intelligence Service can do mass surveillance of the Danes. And, of course, that's the way it has to be. We do not have an intelligence service to mass-supervise the Danes; we have an intelligence service to look after Denmark against the threats from among others. terrorists that we know are out there, and we know that there are people who are planning to attack targets in the West. That is why we also need to take good care of our country and that is what we are doing while, of course, fully following the legislation that applies to the intelligence services. This must be the case in a democratic society, and so it is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120112922	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120112924	I think I have to correct the Minister for Defence; I certainly do not think there is an overview of the matter, but it is true that we have had the rules for the work of the secret services reproduced a number of times. But leave that discussion alone. I would like to hear from the Secretary of Defense whether there should be no limits to cooperation. I mean, I understand that there is a need to cooperate with other intelligence services, but there are no ethical limits to that cooperation, for example. A border that could be called: should we not cooperate in a way that allows foreign intelligence services to monitor Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113006	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113008	Well, it is very simple that the Defence Intelligence Service or, for that matter, the Police Intelligence Service may not ask other countries' intelligence services to carry out surveillance that is not permitted under Danish law. And the collaborations of the Danish intelligence services have one purpose, namely to protect Denmark from attacks, and they cooperate is not just something where you have to sit and make ethical assessments. There is a clear legal basis, and that means that in this case there is a law for the Defence Intelligence Service, which means that you cannot just work together according to what you might find in a given situation, but it must be according to the rules that apply. It is, of course, part of being a community governed by the rule of law, and this is something that is taken very seriously in the Defence Intelligence Service, and I think we should be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113105	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no more brief comments now. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113120	Thank you. The proposal from the Enhedslisten that we are considering today is a motion for a resolution under which the government should be required to make legislative proposals which make it illegal for Danish authorities to carry out mass monitoring of communications and also illegal for Danish authorities, as part of their cooperation with foreign authorities, to grant them access to independent collection. Let me say, on the basis of the proposal, that the comments begin with the words "Highly likely participant...' and, further down, some statements from Edward Snowden are being referred to. Here it is referred to, among other things.: The result is a European bazaar, where an EU Member State such as Denmark may give NSA access to a taping centre.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because we basically don't know exactly what's going on here. I think it is a rather thin basis to table the motion for a resolution and ask the government to establish new legislation. However, if it were true that this activity was going on, I must say that it is already illegal for Danish authorities to monitor the Danes' communications in a mass manner, it must not be done in accordance with the legislation in force. What is suggested then is that there is cooperation between the Defence Intelligence Service and the NSA in the United States, and I would say that I hope there is too, because the world is not quite ideal. We can only welcome the fact that we receive information from the partner. It would be extremely insecure if we had no cooperation whatsoever with other intelligence services on these matters. However, as the Minister also correctly said, cooperation must take place under Danish law, and the activity described in the proposal, I believe, as stated, is already illegal under applicable rules, including the FE Act. The activities of the intelligence services are, by their very nature, secret and, of course, it makes it difficult to debate them here, since only a few of us have an insight into it, namely the few of us who sit on the Parliamentary Control Committee for Intelligence Services. But we have just this Control Committee, and I am sure they are doing the work they need to do. Generally speaking, I have no reason to doubt the statements made by the Minister for Defence, and I can therefore say that the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113440	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs Karin Gaardsted as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113447	Thank you for the floor. The proposal put forward by Enhedslisten aims firstly to prohibit Danish authorities from carrying out so-called mass surveillance of Danish citizens without first obtaining a court order. Secondly, the proposal aims to make it illegal for Danish authorities to allow foreign authorities to obtain or bottle information about Danish citizens without a court order. I have taken note of the fact that the Defence Intelligence Service is mentioned several times in the motion's remarks, and therefore I think it is important to talk about what the Defence Intelligence Service may and may not do, and about what the Defence Intelligence Service does and does not do. Let me be quite clear: the defense intelligence service must not make the defense intelligence service obtain their information from intelligence services and individuals abroad. In general, intelligence services have very special working conditions, where secrecy and confidentiality are a necessary part of the work. Sometimes the secrecy may seem violent enough, but if we are to be one step ahead of the terrorist plans, it is necessary that neither al-Qaeda, ISIL nor a new Anders Breivik gain insight into exactly how the Defence Intelligence Service works. Can I rule out the fact that FE has gotten its hands on information about Danish citizens? No, I can't. Because in our globalised world, criminal terrorist networks and single terrorists use the Internet and mobile phones to communicate with across borders. And as I said before, the defence intelligence activity is directed at foreign countries. But precisely because the organizations and individuals in which the FE has an interest communicate across borders, the service can come in possession of communication to a citizen of Denmark. For example, FE can obtain information about citizens of Denmark if a known criminal or terrorist abroad contacts a citizen of Denmark. In this way, without intention, FE can obtain information about a Danish citizen. However, there is no deliberate mass monitoring of the Danes, as the proposal claims. If it happens that FE comes into possession of communication between a citizen abroad and a Danish citizen, FE must pass on the information to PET or may use it for a limited period of time in their own analytical work. If the information is about an imminent terrorist act, it is obvious to me that the FE can use it in their analytical work and perhaps help prevent an act of terrorism. If PET then carries out an investigation on the basis of that information, it must, of course, take place under the Code of Procedure and after they have received a court order. I think that is a reasonable thought. We have an obligation to try to prevent major terrorist acts from happening again. Understand me correctly: Of course FE must not be allowed to run freewheels, and neither do they. Last year we got a new law regulating the work of the Defense Intelligence Service. The law provided clarity about the framework for their work, and it meant that there is stronger supervision and independent control of their compliance with the law. Another issue mentioned in the motion for a resolution is whether FE provides foreign intelligence services with access to gather information about Danish citizens' communications. FE must not ask a partner to circumvent Danish law or do anything that FE may not do itself. This must not be the case because the FE does not cooperate with intelligence services in other countries; of course they must. Only by cooperating with other countries can we secure Denmark as best we can against terrorist attacks. After all, this cooperation has also been supported by the proposers on previous occasions. Of course, intelligence services cannot reveal who they are working with, when and exactly how. Now we're back to it with confidentiality and secrets, but the Defence Intelligence Service must comply with the law and comply with our legal principles here in Denmark, and they do. Today, it is not legal for Danish authorities to carry out mass monitoring of citizens' communications, and therefore the Socialists cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113916	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120113919	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it is interesting that we now have the third person on the platform who argues that it is already illegal for the Defence Intelligence Service to mass monitor Danes, and therefore one cannot vote in favour of a proposal that means that it should be illegal for the Defence Intelligence Service to mass monitor Danes, or allow other collaborators to mass monitor Danes. I would like to hear the political opinion, not on what is going on, but on whether it should be legal for, for example, what is going on. Defence Intelligence to allow other collaborators to mass-supervise Danish citizens or should Defence Intelligence say: No, you shouldn't have that access, no matter how much you promise us?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114019	In fact, we have very strong legislation. It was made stronger last year. This is also necessary in this area. This is an area that is also developing, and therefore it is very important that we in Denmark have strong and secure legislation, and we have that in this area. So there is no mass monitoring of Danes communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114041	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114042	That's not what I asked. That's not what I asked at all. I asked whether the Socialists believe that it should be legal for the Defence Intelligence Service to allow their collaborators to mass monitor Danish citizens. Not what they do, but it must be legal for Defence Intelligence to allow their collaborators to monitor Danish citizens, for example. through direct access to the fiber cables where Danish citizens' communication runs?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114122	I would like to reiterate that we have very strong legislation in force in this area. The strong legislation comes, of course, on the basis of the need for greater understanding and control of it. We also have very strong supervision, we have very strong control that things do not happen that we do not want in Denmark. But of course you cooperate with foreign intelligence services. You have to do that. After all, we also get our information from the outside • those that we need to get.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114157	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114201	It is said that as you shout in the woods, you get answers. That was not the case when Mrs Pernille Skipper tried to get an answer from Mrs Karin Gaardsted, because there was talk of something else. The question is: do the Social Democrats think that it is right for the Defence Intelligence Service to have other countries' intelligence services mass-supervising the Danes be legal? Should it be legal, or should it be illegal? That is how I understood the question from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Couldn't we get an answer to that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114239	Well, I do not think that this is happening, because we have a completely secure legislation in Denmark that makes there are tough rules for what it is, you have to examine what it is you have to go in and look for, and as soon as you are in about something quite specific about a citizen, there has to be a court order for. That, of course, is what matters to us: that there is strong and secure legislation. And many of the things mentioned in the motion for a resolution are based on conjecture. They're not based on evidence. They are based on the assumption that some illegal acts are being committed, but we have no proof of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114324	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114327	We must not hope that a month will come without murder or rape or assault, because in that case the Socialists will obviously not answer whether it is illegal or not. And that doesn't make any sense. I know what Mrs Karin Gaardsted thinks happens. The question for the fourth time, perhaps the last chance, but otherwise we can take it one more time: do the Social Democrats and Mrs. Karin Gaardsted think it should be legal for the Defence Intelligence Service to get other countries' intelligence services to mass monitor the Danes' communication yes or no? There must be a clear position on this. I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance does not think that is right. What do the Socialists think?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114416	So I am replying for the fourth time that the legislation we have in Denmark ensures that mass monitoring cannot be carried out. It is said that there are foreign intelligence services that have the trunk of communication in Denmark, but we do not have proof of that, and it is based on conjecture. Therefore, I have to repeat that we have secure and strong legislation supported by very strong supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114501	You can start by saying that it's all about trust. This resolution at least proves that Enhedslisten has little confidence in the way in which the Danish intelligence services are used. Maybe there's nothing new about that. The Enhedslisten has previously had it in their manifesto that we should abolish the Danish police; so perhaps you also want to abolish the Danish defence intelligence service. It might be interesting to find out. However, as other rapporteurs have said before, there are some expressions in the comments on this motion for a resolution which, in any case, well illustrates what is really both the problem and the fact that something is most likely going on perhaps and perhaps etc. It is in fact in several places in the written material which Enhedslisten has submitted to the Danish Parliament in connection with the examination of this motion for a resolution. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that the policy in this area is quite clearly defined in the legislation in this area. I also think that the rapporteurs have said very clearly that what we are talking about is, of course, that the Danish intelligence law is being observed and that the information we have is being handled as it should be in the current case law. The question is overall: do we have confidence in the defense intelligence service, yes or no? We in the Danish People's Party say yes to that. Are we confident that the information obtained is necessary for the security of the empire? Yes, we have confidence in this in the Danish People's Party. In general, do we have confidence that the information handled through our intelligence services will also be handled by the police on the basis of the law and the case-law there is? Yes, we have that in the Danish People's Party. But I do think that this motion for a resolution is suspicious of the government, and it is a little strange, perhaps, that we should experience this suspicion by the government's support party, by the party that has secured the government the ministerial taboos that it has. Then it is perhaps a familiar strange thing that you start to ironize that you do so in several places in the comments to the proposal ^ over the replies received from the various ministers, both by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Defence, who are present here today. You ironize about that a little bit. Can one then deduce that Enhedslisten does not trust the government, since one uses the angle of approach to it? It might be interesting to know, I must say to Mrs Pernille Skipper, because that is what we are witnessing with this motion for a resolution. It's such a strategic suspicion of this operational Denmark, which is actually trying to deal with the risks involved in being a free nation. We are an open democracy, and being an open democracy poses some problems. That is why we need to have an intelligence service which, of course, is allowed to operate on the basis of a sound legal basis and which also has the opportunity to find information that may help prevent terrorist attacks, not only in Denmark but in other countries; an intelligence service which can prevent terrorist cells, new terrorist cells from growing and gaining ground in Denmark and which can at all help prevent terrorist acts from taking place in the world. These are some of the basic parameters of this case. In other words, we recognise, of course, that we are allowed to take this debate. This is not the first time we have had Snowden for debate in the Folketing. But that does not change the fact that what we are talking about today is whether we have confidence in the way in which we handle this information under the applicable legislation and whether we trust the state's intelligence services. We have this in the Danish People's Party, and we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114856	There are two brief comments, first from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120114901	Having listened to the rapporteur's speech, I have to say that I have become a little confused, and I have my doubts as to whether it is at a higher level, with an expression from the time of the Tamil affair. We in the Danish People's Party have confidence in the intelligence services, it was said, and in conclusion it was also said that it was for the state's intelligence services, which is very high. Now I have the pleasure of being a legal rapporteur, and here I have to say that lately it has not seemed as if the Group Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup, and the founder of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, have a strong confidence in the police intelligence service; I can cite the Christiania case as an example. Has the Danish People's Party suddenly gained blind confidence in the intelligence services? Well, as late as yesterday, I was at a meeting where sir... Peter Skaarup was also present without having to report from a closed meeting and then I get somewhat confused about what the position of the Danish People's Party is on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115003	Well, I'll be sorry if sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll has been confused, it's not nice; it's a bad situation to be in. But what I said was that we have confidence in the law that exists and in the way in which it is handled. This also means, of course, that, as a politician, if the law is not respected, you can then ask questions about it, for example in relation to the police intelligence service, where there have been the complications, among others. in relation to the visit to Christiania etc., which is also one of the cases that has filled a bit in the media picture. But that does not change the fact that we have confidence in the Danish intelligence service and that we have legislation in this area. That is why there may well be a case where there is something where we ask: what has actually happened in this case? We need to make that clear. Oh, there we are. an opportunity to ask questions. We can call for consultation and we can take it up in the Control Committee and elsewhere, and that is the way the legislation is in this area. And that's why we still have faith in the Danish intelligence service.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115055	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115057	But the latter is not enough for the Danish People's Party in the second case, not even the one with the Control Committee, as far as I have understood the position, but one has to clarify at a group meeting what is really the Danish People's Party's policy in relation to the intelligence services. In any case, I think it is completely unclear after Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby has been on the platform and has renounced his group chairman and party founder as I hear it. Or should we understand it in another way, that is to say that what is actually being said is that you have confidence in the legislation, that is to say that the law is good, but that you may not have quite so concrete confidence in what has been done? I think it is very unclear what it is that you think, apart from the fact that you think it is not nice to have to discuss the issue raised by Enhedslisten. And isn't that the hops in it, i.e. that you really don't like the discussion, and that you try to talk a little out of it, and then you got into something that wasn't really connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115152	Well, we know very well here in the Danish Parliament that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll likes to problematize things, and we acknowledge that; we must also be allowed to do so. But that does not change the fact that there are no conflicts and that there is nothing to be ridden out at a group meeting in the Danish People's Party, we will deal with that ourselves; that is how it works. However, I would like to say to the rapporteur, who is asking about this matter, that it is clear that when I say that I have confidence in our intelligence services, it is of course from the law that there is and from the way things are handled. It's quite clear, that's the way it has to be. But that does not change the fact that, as I said in my first reply to the rapporteur, one can, of course, have a case where things require an additional study and where, as a politician, one has the opportunity to ask all the relevant questions that need to be asked. However, this does not mean that we should start to problematize it and suspect the secret services of the State, both in the area of defence and in the field of justice. So I don't think there's so much to be round confused about, but if mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is roundly confused, maybe he needs some medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115255	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115258	In fact, I would like to pick up the thread where Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll left it because there's a lot of hypocrisy in this. The rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party has full confidence and, as far as I remember, the wording was that all information is properly handled, and it was said several times that all information is handled correctly. Did it also work out Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's calendar?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115333	Now Mrs Pernille Skipper is saying hypocrisy. I do not think that is hypocrisy, because there is a difference between whether it is the ordinary legislation that is in this area or whether it is a single matter. That is what is so suspected in this motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. It is, of course, actually going in and saying that there are very likely some things that are not going to happen. There we have to say in the Danish People's Party: of course we have confidence in the way things are handled. But that does not mean that we cannot find ourselves in a situation where there are individual cases which, of course, have to be put under a politically critical light, and that is one of them. the case of Christiania; one has a case in which apparently no operation has been carried out as it should have been. But that is not the same as saying that we do not have confidence in the legislation we have on police intelligence and defence intelligence. It's not the same thing. There is a difference between the legislation that is for one area as a whole and the legislation that is for one case. And I think the Enhedslisten can understand that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115427	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115428	So what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party says is that when it comes to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's calendar, sensitive personal information, there is good reason to have a politically critical light on that individual matter. But when it comes to revelations that point to the fact that all Danish citizens who are not suspected of having done anything criminal may be subject to mass surveillance of foreign intelligence services, there is no reason to put a politically critical light on it, because then you just have to have confidence. All right, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is more important than everyone else! That is what the Danish People's Party says. I would just like to hear a position on the resolution itself: should it be legal, not if it is, but should it be legal for Danish intelligence services to make access to mass surveillance of Danish citizens available to foreign intelligence services, or should it not be legal?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115534	As I said, it is quite clear from the law in force that where something is made available, it is of course done in cooperation between the Danish secret services and the foreign ones, which must have a certain interest in it. After all, we are witnessing international terrorism, we have international terrorist cells and we have international conflicts. That is why we need to cooperate with the intelligence services of other countries. It is in fact the case that we in Denmark can also benefit from obtaining information from other countries, just as Norway, for example, got when it came to the fact that someone had planned to commit terrorist acts in Norway, where they then chose to strengthen border security etc. It's gonna come, among other things. If we have international cooperation, we cannot, of course, reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120115619	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130003	We must resume the sitting after the break, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130013	Thank you. With the proposal, the proposers in the Enhedslisten will make it illegal for Danish authorities, possibly in cooperation with foreign authorities, to carry out mass monitoring of Danes. We can fully support the position and substance of the proposal, but not the proposal itself. And we cannot do that for the simple reason that it is already illegal for Danish authorities to carry out mass monitoring of Danes. It is illegal for Danish authorities alone, and it is also illegal for Danish authorities to cooperate with foreign authorities to carry out mass monitoring of Danes. I'm sorry, I gotta breathe. I got fucking breathed. Sorry, you can't swear from the platform, but I actually got a little windy running up here. I'm gonna get back to you. President There are 4 minutes left. ) Yes, and I can say that I only have one page, so I know I have enough time. That's why I've also learned that if you can't breathe, you have to take a deep breath. All I have to do is find my way back. In relation to FE, it is also clear that FE is aimed at conditions abroad and at citizens who are not resident in Denmark. This is, of course, an absolutely crucial prerequisite for FE's work, and therefore it is also clear that FE does not undertake or participate in or contribute to the mass surveillance of Danish nationals. At the same time, it is clear that the FE cooperates with foreign services. However, as I said before, it is a basis for cooperation that the rules to which the FE is subject should be respected. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130208	Thank you. There is one brief comment: it is from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130213	Thank you to the rapporteur. I regret to say that Mrs Zenia Stampe may just need to read the motion for a resolution again, because there are two things in it. It says that it must be illegal for Danish authorities to mass-supervise Danish citizens and that it must be illegal to cooperate with foreign authorities in a way that allows foreign authorities to mass-supervise Danish citizens. So I would like to hear the position of the Radical Left: should that be legal for example. Defence Intelligence to cooperate with foreign intelligence services in a way where it is possible for foreign intelligence services to carry out mass surveillance of Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130301	In fact, I think that is what I said. I do not think it is legal today for the FE to cooperate with foreign authorities in a way that contributes to mass monitoring of Danes. We do not know what foreign authorities are doing, but we are doing what we can to find out. We cannot deny that there are foreign countries, states, authorities trying to monitor Danes, just as we are also trying to monitor the citizens of other countries. We cannot guarantee that that will not happen. We can guarantee that we are trying to unravel it where we suspect it is going on. However, it is clear that of course Danish authorities, including FE, cannot cooperate with foreign authorities on illegal monitoring of Danes. In fact, I believe that what the law says is that it is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130358	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130359	As I understand it, Mrs Zenia Stampe fully agrees that it must be illegal for the Defence Intelligence Service or other Danish authorities to cooperate with other foreign services in a way that enables them to obtain information about Danish citizens' communications, mass-monitoring Danish citizens. It is funny, because it is just the opposite of what the Minister for Defence answers in writing when we ask about the state of law in Denmark. That is, when we ask: is it legal for the Defence Intelligence Service to cooperate with the NSA, to allow the NSA to connect to Danish fiber cables where it is possible for the NSA to intercept Danish citizens' communications? then the Minister for Defence replies: As stated in the Law on Defence Intelligence, the FE is entitled to cooperate with foreign intelligence services, including providing information..... Well, I'm a little in doubt about the state of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130503	It included providing information. It didn't say anything about Danes' communication. It was not mentioned in what Pernille Skipper quotes. It says that it is possible to pass on information, but of course not information that allows mass monitoring of Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130525	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, I'm sorry, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. We're finally not gonna miss the SF. I don't want it to go that far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120130550	Thank you for that, President. I would like to congratulate the Enhedslisten on raising this debate through the motion for a resolution before us today, because I think it is an important discussion that we need to have. After all, the background is a series of articles in Information this summer, where some journalists at Information had got hold of some of the material Snowden has revealed. They came to the conclusion that there has been cooperation between Danish intelligence authorities and the NSA on the bottling of fibre cables in Denmark, which is claimed to be a fairly important area of cooperation, because Denmark among other things. also transit country is too much of the fiber traffic going to other places in Scandinavia, down to Germany and also from Russia and down to Germany by the way. In addition, they also came to the conclusion that there is such a wide-ranging network of cooperation agreements, a bazaar, calling Snowden it probably, where the different authorities in the different countries exchange information and also allow for perhaps, it claims Snowden at least that the NSA can intercept information about German citizens in Denmark and Danish citizens in Germany, so that you can comply with the legislation in force, and then, if I may say so, you can use it here as an instrument for listening to all people around the world. I have to say that when I read the articles, it also gave me a little gibberish. If it is true that the NSA can sort of put a tap into the fiber cables in Denmark, to use that expression now, and just tap loose, then I certainly think there is a problem. I have to say, I think it is. But I must also say that I do not think this resolution addresses that problem properly, because what is being proposed by the Enhedslisten is a change of law and, as far as I can see, a law will be amended in an area in which there is already a legal basis which, according to the government at least, is clear enough. It is not, of course, because there is confusion as to whether this is legal, because it is not, as such, why I think it is a little strange that you will go that way if you have to address this. That is why, firstly, I do not quite understand why we are not focusing more on the control of all this, in other words on what Snowden says is correct. If that is correct, and we do not know whether it is, I think it is quite a serious matter. And that is something that must be addressed in the parliamentary control committee. I know, of course, that Mrs Pernille Skipper has just been appointed to that committee, and since I know that she is both gifted and enthusiastic, I have no doubt that Mrs Pernille Skipper will be able to ask very close questions in the Control Committee, where one will be obliged to answer whether this is actually correct. Secondly, if it is correct, it is essential to know what is actually being bugged. What's this used for? What kind of context is this going on in? Thirdly, if it is not legal, you have a very big problem. If it is legal, what are the gaps that might be the legislation? I don't know. What is just the essential thing here is that there are many, many ambiguities in this story still gone. I certainly think it was very good that information brought these things out in their series of articles, and I think we should also take it seriously. However, it is so difficult to make legislation about it before we have got more digging out what is up and down in it. And that is a question of control. It's a matter of the fact that in the Danish Parliament's Control Committee you get to grips with this case, get it unveiled and get to know what's up and down. And if there's something to come for, if it's been legal and you find that there are some gaps in the legislation, we'll have to look at it. I think that the motion for a resolution before us today by Enhedslisten is a missed one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131032	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131035	I would like to start by saying that I actually agree very much with Mr McMillan-Scott. Holger K. Nielsen. What is interesting is how we can check whether the revelations that Edward Snowden has made are true or not. What is interesting is if we could get a clear answer to what is legal and not legal for the intelligence services to do, and I think that is what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen believes that citizens of a democratic society have a certain right to have insight into, although, of course, everything cannot come forward. The problem is that we have not been able to get a clear answer. We have not been able to get a clear answer to the legal situation. Mrs. Zenia Stampe believes it would be illegal if the Defense Intelligence Service were to allow the NSA to tap fiber cables running on Danish soil. The answer we have received from the Minister for Defence is not clear, so it is unclear what is legal or illegal. That is why we say that we politically do not think it should be legal. Does SF think it should be legal to provide such access to foreign intelligence services?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131139	No, no, we don't think so. I think that was also evident from what I said, namely that it was gibbering in me, as I could read that, if it is true, it would appear that some cock can be put up and just bottled loose. However, it is also true, as has been said, that there is cooperation with intelligence services in other countries, and this cooperation must, of course, take place within the framework of the law. I don't know what's been possible within the law in this. There's got to be warrants and so on if you're gonna go in and do this. I assume that has been observed if this has been done. So that's obvious. Of course, you have to comply with the legislation that exists, even when you cooperate with foreign intelligence services, and if you do not, you have a very big problem. But that is one of the things that I think Mrs Pernille Skipper should be working to clarify through her work in the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131229	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131230	I think we all agree that all authorities must work within the framework of the law, even when working with foreign authorities, whether they are secret services or a community nursing home. The problem is, of course, that we have not been able to get a clear answer to what the legislation really is. Well, what exactly is the legal framework? Then I say, and we in the Enhedslisten, that then we take responsibility as Parliament and decide what the legal framework should be. However, as I hear it, there is really support from the SF for the proposal, if I have understood correctly. There is only one reason why we may make other proposals together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131310	Well, listen: The answer we received earlier today from the Secretary of Defense left no doubt that mass surveillance is illegal. It is illegal today without a warrant and also to cooperate with foreign services to do so. It's illegal. Then there was a claim from Snowden that you do anyway. Then it is that I say: okay, it is not so good if that is the case. But then we must also find out if that is the case. And if that is the case, is it within the framework of the law, or are there any loopholes in the law or anything that you have to look at? Or are there some grey areas in which you also operate? And that is where the Control Committee comes in. When we talk about secret services, we all know that not everything can get into public space. We know that's the way it is. That is why it is so crucial that there is a proper control regime. One can discuss whether that is good enough, I agree, but one has a control regime after all, and that is where I think one should focus more on having this checked properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131419	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131432	This is a very relevant discussion which is being discussed here. Mass surveillance is, in fact, a major threat to our democratic society; it is a major threat to personal freedom; it is a major threat to citizens' right to privacy. The question is, of course, what is going on and what has happened. It is still uncertain to some extent, but it will not be better if, apart from being uncertain, it is also unclear what the legal basis is. In fact, I think that is one of the points that is most clear at the end of the debate, namely that it is difficult to get clear answers. We would like to give the Minister for Defence a new opportunity to give it in writing during the committee procedure, so that it may be that we come closer to the discussion that Mrs Pernille Skipper has raised, namely: is the law not being complied with or is it a matter of the law not being good enough? If the Minister for Defence cannot give an adequate answer to that question, the Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. If the Minister for Defence confirms Mrs Pernille Skipper's expectation that something is missing from legislation, then we will also vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. If the Minister for Defence should come with a surprise to Mrs Pernille Skipper and say that legislation is already in place, it is clear that then we will have to do our job again, and then we will have to take the discussion on that basis. Then it has been mentioned in the debate that there is this also with the control, and then you can look at it, but the truth is still gone, that although cosmetic changes were made to the control of the Danish intelligence services under this government, it is still not good enough. In any case, we will continue to work to ensure that some of the possibilities of control, for example. has in Norway and the UK, will also apply in Denmark. I do not understand the argument that we should not be able to control our intelligence services at the same level as other North-West European countries, which have good and close cooperation with the Americans and which are doing quite well. But this cannot be done here because we are obviously a very special case. We do not believe that it is unacceptable that the control of the Danish secret services is as poor as it is. Unless the Secretary of Defense comes with a surprise, and maybe he does, you never know, we're probably most likely to vote in favour. However, if the Minister for Defence can clarify in writing that this is not necessary because the legislative framework is already in place, we are open to not voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131743	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm of the Conservatives as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131749	The Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Tom Behnke, unfortunately, cannot be here, so I have promised to read his speech, and then I am quite sure he will look forward to continuing the debate on another occasion. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal. It is important that Danish authorities have the opportunity to effectively prevent serious crimes, including terrorism, in Denmark. In this context, cooperation with the authorities of other countries can be of crucial importance. We believe that the authorities only monitor what is necessary in this context. The Government has repeatedly stated that there is no reason to believe that illegal surveillance is taking place against Denmark or Danish interests. And we have laid down rules for the ability of the authorities to prevent and combat crime, rules that we, the Conservatives, support. Those rules must, of course, be observed. Moreover, it would be physically impossible for the authorities to monitor the private communications of all citizens, because the amount of communication is simply too great for that. The authorities are using surveillance to combat crime, and we still have confidence in this will be done in accordance with Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131906	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120131911	I would like to start by thanking you for the debate, and then I would like to pay tribute to most of the rapporteurs who have been on the platform for an amazing ability to respond to something other than what has been asked. It is the nuances that are the important thing in this debate, and one can certainly hear that when we discuss it. The motion for a resolution we have tabled actually contains two elements: firstly, a ban on mass monitoring of communications, including digital communications, if monitoring enables Danish authorities to have access to communication without a court order. It's quite basic. That is also the case today, as several have pointed out. Secondly, the proposal prohibits Danish authorities from allowing foreign authorities to carry out such monitoring. And when you say it out loud, it seems almost absurd that we should make such a proposal at all. It should be quite basic and trivial in a community governed by the rule of law that, of course, this should be the case. Danish intelligence services must also protect Danish citizens from surveillance by other countries' intelligence services. Unfortunately, however, it is still necessary to table such a motion for a resolution. Edward Snowden, who has previously been employed by the U.S. Intelligence Agency, NSA, has revealed that via some speech papers he has published, which were to be used for meetings between the NSA and the Defence Intelligence Service, i.e. Denmark's intelligence service... that the Defence Intelligence Agency and the NSA have an agreement. This agreement allows the NSA to tap fiber cables on Danish soil on condition that the NSA does not include communication from Danish citizens, but only snoops in e.g. German and Swedish communications. That is why it is also very clear that there is mass surveillance against Danish citizens. According to the revelations, however, Denmark is not the only ones to have such an agreement with the NSA. Similar agreements have been concluded with 33 other European countries, and in this way the NSA can monitor Danish citizens through the agreement that the NSA has with, for example. Germany, and thus, with the consent of European countries, they can put together such a whole patchwork of monitoring of European citizens. And that, of course, is worrying if it is true. In that case, Denmark's own intelligence service, the Defence Intelligence Service, will allow foreign intelligence services to carry out actual mass surveillance, not only of our neighbours' innocent citizens, but possibly also of our own. At least they have a chance to do it. This revelation is very worrying, it is clear, and of course it has led not only to this Parliament but also to many journalists asking whether it can be true. Is this really happening? And we have not been able to get any answer to that at all. We have had the same rumble, which was just repeated by the Conservative rapporteur, namely that there is no reason to assume that illegal surveillance is being carried out against Denmark or Danish interests. I believe that the legal rapporteurs and defence rapporteurs who have dealt with this discussion can be briefed in their sleep. That is why we have tried to ask in the Enhedslisten whether it would be legal. Well, what does Danish law really say? Would such cooperation be legal? What are the rules, simple? And amazingly, it's not really possible to get an answer to either. First of all, the Minister of Defence refers to the fact that the Defence Intelligence Service may collect information relevant to the business activities of the services. We must then take that as a yes: they can connect to fiber cables on Danish soil. And if you ask, can they make it possible for others to tap? Secondly, the Minister for Defence replies that the Defence Intelligence Service is entitled to cooperate, including providing information. So yes, we must also understand that as: Yes, it is legal. But it is actually quite amazing that we are in such a guessing game at all, that there are articles in which various experts guess what the Secretary of Defense thinks when he tries to explain Danish law, and that there are members of parliament who cannot really get an answer to what the law is, but where it is relied on that the Defence Intelligence Service is complying with the law, that is, the law that we do not know what is. Then it's gonna be really absurd. And that is especially so when it is something as fundamental as the right to move freely and communicate freely, free of surveillance. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution in an attempt to skip the guesswork. And that is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution which is basically about the government having to ensure that the legislation is so arranged in Denmark that it is not only illegal for Danish intelligence services to carry out mass surveillance of Danish citizens, but also that it is illegal for them to provide access, so that other intelligence services have an opportunity to actually and effectively carry out mass surveillance of Danish citizens and our neighbours. We are of course grateful for the support that has been given, and we think it should be very easy to say yes to this motion for a resolution. You only have to put up with surveillance at all when you live in a state governed by law if you are suspected of something criminal and the police or intelligence services have obtained a court order that says very clearly that there must be surveillance here. Of course, we can count to 90 and there is no support for the resolution right now. I think it is telling those parties that will vote against it that you do not want to ensure that Danish citizens do not have mass surveillance, that you do not want to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution to make the legislation absolutely clear in this area. We're sorry about that, but that probably means that there's something here that's not exactly what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120132618	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? Since that is not the case and no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120132639	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Hans Christian Thoning from the Left as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120132659	Thank you. Once again, it is a pleasure to have the opportunity to talk about Danish tourism and how we can strengthen our efforts so that we can exploit an even greater share of the potential there is. The potential is great and we have neglected Danish tourism for many years. It is therefore extremely positive that we can now agree to strengthen Danish tourism, specifically Danish natural and coastal tourism. That is why we in the Left are satisfied with the draft law as a starting point, but we still have a number of comments that we wish to make. The bill states that the Minister for the Environment is authorised to grant up to ten permits per year. project. We would like that figure to be much higher, and we are sure that the Minister for the Environment will easily find the ten measures that will fall within the criteria mentioned in the bill, because no one is interested in establishing projects that are not sustainable or in harmony with our beautiful nature and landscapes. The fear of a gold coast that we know from abroad is completely without reason. Of course, municipalities are not interested in destroying their territory, but they are interested in creating growth and jobs. The Left also considers that the other measures in the legislative proposal are a step in the right direction. Among other things, there are: a need for measures to strengthen efforts to combat depopulation in the 27 small islands covered by the bill. In the Left, we hope that the law can help to maintain the positive development shown by the new VisitDenmark figures for Danish tourism. However, many more projects are needed than just the ten, but the hope is that this experimental scheme will be such a success that no one can deny the sense of extending it. At the same time, let me stress that the liberalisation of the law on plans will solve many of the challenges facing municipalities and the tourist industry in connection with nature and coastal tourism. The Government has previously recognised that the administration of the provisions of the Plan Act should take into account both the creation of new growth-oriented development and construction projects and the preservation of the nature and landscapes that many tourists come to Denmark to experience. This experimental system will be a good first step in this process. Despite the fact that we in the Left believe that one should be even more ambitious in one's approach, this is initially the right way to go. That is why the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120132933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torben Hansen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120132953	The Danish coasts and coastal landscapes are beautiful and unique. They create experiences, they create well-being, they create tourism, both domestic and foreign tourism. Although Denmark is a small country, we have a very great tradition in this sector, and we must stick to that, but we also have a sector where development is needed. Parts of business and urban tourism are going well, but when it comes to coastal and natural tourism, it hangs a little more. Of course, you can grieve or rejoice about this depending on temperament, but in the social democracy we would like to see increased sustainable tourism on the Danish coasts and coastal landscapes. Indeed, coastal and natural tourism has not been able to keep up with competition from neighbouring countries for a number of years, and this is a development that we must try to reverse, and in this work there must be facilities and frameworks that are interesting to maintain the balance between our unique coastal nature and tourism. The Social Democratic Party supports the draft law and the proposed pilot scheme with up to ten projects at national level and, indeed, with a local application. We also note positively the three criteria mentioned in the proposal which must be met in order to achieve the possible ten projects. There must be potential for the development of coastal and natural tourism in the project and it must also be the case that the establishment of the projects takes place in conjunction with other tourism activities in the municipality and that the projects are integrated architecturally and constructed with particular regard to the surrounding nature and the landscape. We have great expectations that the municipalities will now come up with unique and innovative projects that are no more of past projects, but actually live up to what we mean by this, both in terms of tourism and in terms of being architecturally innovative and in relation to nature. The Social Democratic Party also notes positively that the proposal does not change the level of protection in protected natural areas, which is, of course, also logical, as the projects must both be innovative and ensure more tourism, but this can only be done if there is a unique nature to be a tourist in. Of course, the social democracy supports the proposal and we look forward to seeing both the creativity and the innovation of future projects. I should also like to welcome the Radical Left, which supports the comments made by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120133246	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120133303	Now the Socialist rapporteur has just told us what the proposal is about. The Danish People's Party is part of the agreement that has been made on this experimental scheme, because it is very important for the Danish People's Party that we get something done, so that in these outlying areas where you just need more tourism, you also get some opportunities to do some tests that make us perhaps less rigged, when you get to put up a volleyball net, and what do I know, or that you have some temporary cabins you can have in the summer, so that tourists actually bother to get out there too. That is why we are very much in favour of this agreement. After all, the whole purpose of the agreement is to increase tourism somewhere in coastal areas and to bring about this increased nature tourism, which must certainly be highlighted. I think it is very good that some permits can be granted for these experiments. There are some things I have at least wondered a little about when I was reading the proposal. It may also be that I have not read it well enough, but then I hope the Minister will be able to answer it. It's in relation to an evaluation. I can't see anywhere if there's going to be an evaluation of the project. I hope so, of course, because it is important that we find out whether this is something that we can undo, even beyond the lifetime of the project. Is this an area where we no longer need to be quite so rigid in Denmark? Of course we must take care of nature and environment and climate etc., but sometimes that is how it is at least my personal opinion that you can do things without necessarily harming the environment etc. and so on, but where today we have a very rigid legislation that makes it difficult to sell ice cream on the beach in the summer. It's kind of a shame, I think. That is my personal opinion. But as far as the evaluation is concerned, I would like to know this. Since it is precisely an experimental scheme, it is the case that we are allowing some to build something. I would also like to know whether it will be the case that when the experimental scheme is over, people are asked to tear things down again, because this was something ugly. Perhaps that might hamper investment, you might say, and I think it is quite important. The last thing to which I have a question is in relation to this rule, which allows the municipalities of the 27 small islands to grant derogations so that you can rent out your whole-year-old holiday home all year round. What is meant by this is, of course, to get a larger rental, so that there is more habitation, even in winter, so that there are some tourists also in winter on these small islands. And it might also make people want to live on the islands. That is also one of the objectives. But what's just important and I don't know how to avoid it is that you don't achieve a condition where someone says: Fine, then we rent a summer house for a whole year, but we're only there for 2 weeks anyway. Because then the purpose has not been achieved, I think. So that is also something I think we should just figure out how to work in the best way possible. But otherwise the Danish People's Party is very much in favour. We've been involved in this deal ourselves, and we think it's a really good project. So we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120133652	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120133711	SF is opposed to the experimental projects in the form they have agreed with the bourgeois in the appendix which was made to the agreement on the growth plan for Danish tourism, as stated in the present bill. We see it as the latest in a number of bourgeois projects aimed at opening up buildings in protected areas: extension of summer cottage areas, so-called hole filling between existing construction along the coast and the working group with KL to study the constraints imposed by coastal protection. We think it's both unoriginal and simplistic. At that time, the Social Democrats and Radicals agreed with the SF to oppose the bourgeois ideas of building in protected areas. That is no longer the case. Why should we not strengthen coastal tourism within existing legislation and on the basis of what has already been built and planned? Why do we want to break the framework for nature protection with a change of law? If you ask the coastal tourists, two out of three compare the Knowledge Centre for Coastal Tourism August 2014 that the urban environment is crucial for the coastal experience. The criticism is often that the city seems worn out and lacks soul, that urban traffic is violent and that there is little room for pedestrians. And then something green is missing in the center. These problems are not solved by building in nature. Only 15%. According to Gallup, the Danes believe that there is a need for new construction and extension of coastal buildings and installations on the coasts. 89 per cent. So it is important for the country that we protect the unbuilt coasts and the free coastal nature. Three out of four believe that free nature and free access to the coast are the best means of increasing tourism. What should the trials do? Are they going to convince the Danes and coastal tourists that worn out urban environments are being remedied by building new ones in nature? The SF will be very positive about projects aimed at improving coastal tourism on the basis of existing buildings and installations and which benefit the urban environment in coastal towns, including, of course, by applying exemptions already provided by current legislation. But we do not want to be involved in providing access to new buildings in nature. The second element of the bill will prevent municipalities from distributing areas for low-energy construction, where the developer, for example, will be able to build. shall comply with the requirements for lower energy consumption set out in the voluntary building regulations. Instead, the developer must follow the minimum requirements laid down in the current building regulations so as to give the developer in an area the opportunity to test the energy requirements of the future in practice. A house should be standing for 100 years, and this would cut off the possibility of building future-oriented and climate-proof. The explanatory statement states that it is difficult for type-house companies to adapt to the fact that the municipalities have different rules. Conversely, the government and the bourgeois proposals will prevent the same companies from testing the future typehouses in practice. SF cannot support that part. However, the third part on the possibility of derogation, so that municipalities can allow full-year rental on small islands, we have sympathy for. All in all, the SF cannot support the bill, but we will try to influence the content of the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120134021	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120134033	The Liberal Alliance is not part of the so-called growth agreement that the government has concluded with a number of parties before the summer break. But, of course, we do not object to removing barriers in order to attract tourists in coastal areas. We think it is a good idea to strengthen the Danish tourist areas in general. If you have to say something negative about the proposal, and that is not because you have to why only 10 municipalities? Why not 98? Why not just throw us off having so many restrictions on coastal tourism? There are as many as 7,000 km of coastline in Denmark, and we find it difficult to see that one should not be able to release a larger stretch, perhaps a 200-300 km of these, to ensure growth in the outermost regions. But that is not allowed, because once again it is the welfare of hazelnuts and amphibians that comes first, while creative people's potential for development to ensure a richer Denmark is suppressed. Unfortunately, this is the guiding principle of Danish tourism policy. We can see that it is a matter of making a small patch of the completely impossible law of design. That is also stated in some of the consultations. However, we think it is positive that we should do something. However, we should not hide the fact that we would have preferred to have seen a whole new planning law being put in place, starting freshly and ensuring much more flexible and logical provisions for coastal and beach protection. It is hard to understand how it can be that you can build all the way to the water in Copenhagen, among other things. with windmills up to 150 m in height, but you say no to moving a bench at a beach or building an ice shop for the tourists at the North Sea. Well, it doesn't sound like there's any mood to do something about it on this side of an election, and today we have this bill which takes a small step in the mouse, but in the right direction, which is why we are voting in favour of the proposed experimental scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120134245	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Daniel Rugholm, Conservative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120134250	Thank you. We are dealing here with a bill with not only one but several positive elements, all under one of the most important agendas for the Danish Parliament, namely to create growth and jobs throughout the country in this specific case with a particular focus on the tourism industry. I am glad that we are taking a step in the right direction today. An experimental scheme of coastal tourism is not as crazy in a country with such a long coastline as Denmark has. This may prove to be beneficial to the whole country and not just geographically, because the industry offers employment to people with a wide variety of educational backgrounds, and the industry's turnover often ends up in other industries, especially retailing. Unfortunately, the competitiveness of the tourism industry has fallen from a 14th place back in 2009 to a 21st place in 2013 worldwide. It is especially the high Danish cost level where it lags, and here we achieve a position as absolute bottom, namely as no. 135 out of 140 countries in a report from the World Economic Forum. This means that more foreigners, especially the Germans, are increasingly choosing Denmark from. Thus, over the last 10 years, the number of overnight Germans has fallen by as much as 18%, which represents just under 3 million fewer overnight stays in 2013 compared to 2003. This is a sad development which demonstrates the need to lighten the burden on the Danish economy. The industry here employs almost 120,000 full-time people spread across Denmark, and that certainly does not make the matter here any less important. So in the Conservative People's Party we are pleased that with part of a growth plan we are now taking a step in the right direction. The proposed experimental scheme allows the Minister for the Environment to grant up to ten special permits for planning. According to the draft law, the projects for which the municipal councils can apply must meet three criteria: they must have potential for the development of coastal and natural tourism; they must be set up in conjunction with other tourist activities; they must then be adapted architecturally and constructed with particular regard to surrounding nature and landscape. We find these three good and necessary criteria to ensure that potential projects are planned in respect of nature and within the purpose of the tourist focus. Particularly respect for nature is important, but in the Conservative People's Party we believe that it is possible to develop both natural areas and to think new things without having to remove all signs of human activity. We are both to enjoy and care for nature, because Danish nature is something special, and it must be treated with due respect, but it is also important that more opportunities arise to enjoy our country, so that more can hear that the North Sea and Kattegat sing, while it dugs, quietly as song by cradles that Thøger Larsen makes us sing. Another positive element of the bill is the exemption for landlords on the 27 small islands to rent holiday homes for the entire year's residence. This would hopefully have a positive effect on the settlement on the islands. We are pleased that we have managed to strike a balance between making nature available and at the same time safeguarding it. All in all, we are pleased that the Danish tourism industry is now getting better conditions and we are grateful that the coasts receive renewed attention so that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120134633	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120134642	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive approach to the proposal. I am very pleased with the broad support that, as it sounds today, is for this proposal. The Danish coasts are a huge asset for Denmark. We have coastal types that are unique in Europe, a valuable part of our common nature that we must safeguard. The coasts of the country are also one of our major tourist attractions, which provide jobs in the outermost regions and, as several people have noted here from the platform today, this is also about ensuring additional employment opportunities in the tourist industry in the outermost regions. Unfortunately, coastal tourism has suffered a decline in foreign tourism in recent years. The government wants growth and development throughout Denmark, and that is why we also agreed in June on a growth plan for Danish tourism, which contains a number of different initiatives. Separately, we concluded an agreement with the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party on this experimental scheme to promote the physical development of Danish coastal and natural tourism. With the bill, we are giving the coastal municipalities of the country the opportunity to apply for permission for ten specific projects within the clit protection and beach protection line, a number of other protection lines and the coastal proximity zone. So just to clarify, also in relation to what has been said by the Liberal Alliance, I would like to say that this is not a permit for ten municipalities, it is a permit for ten projects where the municipalities can go together if they want, so that more municipalities can cooperate on a project that can therefore also physically spread across several municipalities. The purpose of this proposal is not, as has sometimes been said in the debate, to patch up our shores and beaches with hotels, restaurants, roller coasters and whatever else could be. I do not want us to have the Sunny Beach states in Denmark. On the contrary, we must bear in mind, as several people have also said, that our open shores, our beaches are one of the attractions that people also come here to experience, and therefore this must of course be done in respect of it. But if we look to Sweden and Norway, we can see how we have successfully created vantage points, nature observatories and other things that attract tourists who come to experience the beautiful coastal nature. We have over 7,000 km of coast in Denmark, as several of us have noticed here today, and the government believes that it is possible to maintain both open and unbuilt coastlines while at the same time ensuring the development of the tourism industry. I therefore call on the coastal municipalities to impress us with innovative project ideas that can promote coastal and natural tourism in a new and exciting way, while taking account of nature and the landscape. The draft law lays down three criteria for the projects to ensure the right balance between the protection and use of our coasts. Projects must have potential for the development of coastal and natural tourism and for increased attraction of foreign tourists. The specific projects must be linked to other tourism activities in order to support the development of the area. And last but not least, the projects must therefore be adapted architecturally and constructed with particular regard to the surrounding nature and landscape. Then it is specifically asked whether this should not be evaluated at some point. It was Mrs Pia Adelsteen who asked. And yes, it has to, and it is also clear from the draft law, that an evaluation will be carried out after five years. It will be the case in relation to permits that have been granted that, if they have not started construction, they will cease to exist. So in relation to the consequences of the evaluation, I would say that it would be the case that if the construction has not been started, the authorisation will lapse. But it is clear that if you have a permit to build something that is within these criteria, it will not be the case that we go out and tear it down. It will of course be an evaluation that is forward-looking in looking at: is this something with which we have good experience? Could this be done according to the criteria that we have laid down in respect for nature and the surrounding society? And then you can consider whether you should build on it. But there is an evaluation after five years. I think it is sensible to do this as an experimental scheme, precisely to see if it can deliver the more jobs and the increased tourism that we want, and at the same time to do so in accordance with coastal protection. When we talk about growth in the outermost regions, the small islands in particular have wanted better opportunities to attract newcomers. And that's why there's also an element in this bill that gives new opportunities for permanent settlements on the 27 small islands. We are simply extending the derogations so that the municipal council can grant an owner an exemption to rent the summer house for a full year's residence. They can do so without first having to go through a building process with energy requirements equivalent to a full-year residence. What lies in it to answer Mrs Pia Adelsteen's question is precisely that there has been a desire to ensure that more people could be attracted to the island's permanent residence, so I must also assume that that is the purpose that will be taken into account on the islands, given that we are now giving this derogation. So I don't actually share the concern that this is just gonna lead to more houses standing empty. That's how I listen to the concern. It is precisely the aim that we need more people to be included in the islands, one might say, community, also at full-year level. There are also other elements in the proposal. From now on, it must be the building regulations alone that require the insulation of the building, and not the local plans. The regulation must be simple and uniform in all municipalities, and it is also part of the follow-up to the growth package entered into by the government with the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party. In view of the large number of local plan proposals being consulted, we are proposing a transitional provision, so that the local plan proposals with provisions on low-energy building, which are currently in consultation and pending the entry into force of this bill, can be adopted and taken into effect after the entry into force of the law. As the last part of the bill, we will simplify the municipalities' EIA process by ensuring that the Minister for the Environment can decide that the mandatory notification form should be submitted digitally. In short, with the bill, the government wants to strengthen the potential for growth in coastal and natural tourism, while taking account of nature and the countryside. We want to simplify the legislation on low-energy buildings and we want to create new opportunities for full-year residence on the 27 small islands. In those words, I would like to thank you once again for the positive reception of this proposal. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135355	There's one question. Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135359	I would just like to say something a little more detailed, because I understand from the Minister that the Minister does not share the concern I just mentioned with regard to the summer houses. Perhaps that is enough because there is a slight misunderstanding, I think, because my concern is that somebody is renting a holiday home for a whole year, in other words making a long-term contract but not living there. Well, it's fine if they make a long-term contract and live there, because that's the whole point, but if you just say that you can afford it and rent a summer house at Anholt for a whole year, but in fact it's only going to be there 14 days in the high season, then the house is empty for the rest of the year. The reason I am asking about this is like saying that this is not the purpose of the experiment. But is there a way that we can do this in such a way as to prevent that from happening? Actually, that's just what I want to do. I don't really think we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135518	Well, I just can't really imagine why you should do that. There is, of course, still the possibility of renting other holiday homes, which are then not on full-year terms, I assume for those who want it. This is precisely to respond to a desire to provide a better opportunity for those who wish to live full time or throughout the year on one of the 27 small islands to have a better chance of doing so. So it is perhaps the question whether you see a problem or not; I do not think I share the view that there is a problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135548	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135549	Peace be with it, it's not certain either, it will be. It may be, I see ghosts, I just think you should at least pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135604	I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135613	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has been asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135616	The debate is open. The first to speak is actually the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120135737	We are about to clarify up here what is actually the procedure and I think we are coming to a conclusion. What we recommend from up here is that I now start by responding to the resolution, and then I will go back to the platform when we have had the overall debate, because I think it is reasonable to pick up on the debate that may be in the Chamber on the legislative proposal. So, if everyone is prepared to do so, I think I will confine myself to making a few comments on the resolution now and then picking up on our overall debate, because it must also be fair that I can reply to the rapporteurs along the way. So with this little exchange of words, I'll start here. The good news is that I didn't bring my papers up here at all, because I didn't actually know that this was the procedure we chose. But I remember the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, so we can handle it this way. Of course, there will be a certain overlap of the two speeches. As I am now opening the debate here today, I would like to start by saying that no matter how we turn it and what approach we may take to the asylum and refugee issue, I think, as the Danish Minister for Justice, that it is important to emphasise that the world is in an exceptionally difficult and extraordinary situation. Not since right after World War II have so many people been on the run. The assessment is that perhaps more than 50 million people have been displaced from their homes, from their vicinity. We have a situation in Syria and Iraq with the Islamic State that terrorises local populations, drives people on the run, commits crimes against humanity and creates strife and unrest in an entire region. When we deal with such a difficult situation in the Middle East, it will throw very, very large groups of people on the run. Most people seek protection in the neighbourhood, a smaller share comes to Europe, and of course it also has a spill-over effect in Denmark. What, then, is the situation we are in? We are in a situation where, over the summer, we have experienced an extraordinary number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark. The vast majority come from Syria, and it is our basic view as a government that, on the one hand, of course, we must provide protection to those who need it, it is our human commitment, it is also our international commitment, and, on the other hand, we must formulate our legislation, our policy so that we can also make things work in Denmark. And the number that comes here does not matter in relation to our ability to integrate. That is the first thing I would like to say. The second thing I would like to say is that you can be on the run for various reasons. And it goes without saying that if you are individually persecuted it may be that you are a dissident in your home country, deserted from the army or otherwise in a situation where, because of your own status, actions, attitudes are pursued. But we also have other types of refugees, refugees who are not individually persecuted on their own account, but who are fleeing because of strife and instability in the country from which they come. This is the group of refugees we want to address and deal with with the bill here, L 72. At the same time, the Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution which is being discussed together. That's why we have this a little special handling from the platform. I would say that, in general terms, we want to reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party simply because we believe that our own legislative proposal is better. L 72 takes on the task we face as a society in a wise and balanced way, I think. I do not agree with the Danish People's Party that all refugees should only have a temporary stay, because there is a big difference between why they flee and the prospects for their return. The Danish People's Party always goes back to an old travert, namely that we should start to differentiate the benefits in the way we saw it with the startup aid up through the 00s. I followed the start-up aid quite closely, because during the period I was the social rapporteur for the Socialists, and afterwards I was the Minister for Employment. What you just have to say quite quietly about the start-up aid is that it did not get all people into work, and when you are dealing with a very low performance that does not bring people closer to the labour market, there is a built-in risk that the low economic level can generate further problems in and around people's lives. So it can be said from the overall point of view that we are dealing first with L 72 today, which we think responds to the asylum challenge in a wiser and more balanced way than the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party expresses. Because of a number of individual elements, I hereby reject the motion for a resolution, and I shall dwell a little more on the draft law in my second speech today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140309	Thank you. There are a few questions, but before we go to them, we must deplore the little controversy that preceded us. Apparently not enough attention has been paid by the Danish Parliament to the fact that the draft law and the resolution were discussed together. It might give rise to some misunderstandings if it has not been clear enough. However, I must point out that the rapporteurs together have 10 minutes to talk about legislative proposals and resolutions. Finally, as the Minister also said, the Minister comes to us to make himself available for answers to questions after we have had the debate. So it's fine. The first person to be on is Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140348	Thank you. I was of the opinion that the Law Secretariat had cleared it with the Ministry of Justice, but it is good that the communication over there in the Ministry has been handled. Well, when the government launched its own proposal, the government itself thought that it included a majority of the refugees who came from Syria, it thought the government itself. I assume that is why the initiative and the proposal were launched. It wanted to hit the majority of those who came from Syria with the austerity that the government had put forward. Subsequently, the government examined things and found out that this was not the case. And then we end up with a bill from the government that actually hits a minority instead of a majority, which was the original ambition of the government. Then we have a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, which actually does what the government originally wanted to do, namely to hit the majority. So what is actually the reason why you do not want to support the Danish People's Party's proposal, when the intention of the Danish People's Party's proposal is actually the same as the original intention of the government? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140500	First of all, I would like to say of a completely communicative nature that I am not putting forward legislative proposals in the field of asylum with a view to hitting me with a legislative proposal in the field of asylum, in order to support and ensure that we have the balanced asylum policy that I think Denmark should have. In relation to the question of whether L 72 is applicable in the slightly simplified form of speech of the majority or minority, I think it is important to stress that the composition of the refugees coming to Denmark and their mutual protection needs are not a static size, it is not a fixed parameter. This may change depending on who is seeking asylum in Denmark. But it is true that at the moment it is the clear assessment that most of the Syrians who come here, and that is the large asylum group, will be to be considered individually persecuted and that a smaller proportion of the refugees who come here will be covered by the new bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140558	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140559	It is quite true that it is not a static size, although it has been seen over time that the vast majority of those who have come to Denmark and have taken up residence have been individually persecuted. So it's no surprise. But it is true that it is not a static size. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party takes this into account because we say that those which are affected by the government's proposals or those which the government's proposals will include will also be included in the Danish People's Party's motion, plus those which the government originally wanted to include, namely the majority, which will also be affected by the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. So we take into account the fact that there are some changes along the way. So I think that the Minister is providing some excellent arguments as to why the Minister should support the Danish People's Party's proposal rather than putting forward that small proposal which the government has put forward and which is not really going to push the world around. I would also like to ask another question, and that is: does the Minister basically not think that the asylum system is something weird, that is to say that there is an asylum system that supports a mass industry in which criminal backers earn money to smuggle people into Europe, sometimes in decrepit boats? Is it not strange that in Denmark, where we pride ourselves on being humane and humanistic and always doing the right thing, we support such a system? And is that not really an argument for fundamentally changing the system and starting to redeploy it so that we help more people in the neighbourhood, such as Australia, by having asylum centres abroad, where you help people? It could also be that asylum centres should be provided in the neighbourhoods. It could also be a completely third solution for that matter. However, should we not start a discussion on how we can reorganise the asylum system so that it does not support a mass industry that makes money from people feeling bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140737	Yes, please! The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140738	Let us take the latter first, because I am firmly convinced that the vast majority of the people who are fleeing are fleeing for good reason. They flee because they seek protection both for themselves and for their families. The questioner and I have recently had an exchange of views where the questioner used the concept of refugees of convenience. I asked on that occasion whether the questioner has knowledge, as the rest of us do not, because it is not my impression that people are leaving Syria right now that they are doing so because of convenience. You do this because you are in danger and because you do not want to be part of the terroristisation of the Islamic State and, incidentally, a very oppressive regime. But just as important, it is to have the basic preface I wish that the Danish People's Party also had in a number of contexts it is equally important not to be naive and romantic in relation to the way asylum seekers are transported through Europe. For it is true that an exceptionally cynical network of smugglers who transport asylum seekers from country to country has been created. I have said on several occasions, and I would like to repeat it today, that I do not believe that we should be blind to the very strong market mechanisms that apply in this area, which are an expression of cynicism and a lack of humanity. And that is the system behind the asylum area today. I think that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140852	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140854	Thank you. Now we will have the opportunity to continue the dialogue with the Minister in the end too, and I think that is very good. But I could not help responding to something that the Minister mentioned in his introductory speech. I think I heard the Minister say that the Danish People's Party's proposal was rejected because it was thought that one's own proposal, that is, L 72, was much better and that this was what it took, I heard the Minister say, to deal with the situation that Denmark is facing. I should just like to ask the Minister whether he would like to explain what the immediate consequences of the adoption of this proposal are and whether the Minister really expects it to have a decisive impact on the influx of asylum to Denmark, i.e. the changes that the government is proposing in L 72. That is how I understood what the Minister said in his opening remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120140948	Well L 72 is For we acknowledge from the government our international obligations, and it is the same if you come to Sweden, Germany or Britain. Does this solve all the challenges we face in the area of asylum? No, it does not, because the challenges in the area of asylum are numerous. This is a question of how to introduce a way of thinking into asylum policy, which more supports the return of more refugees, when peace hopefully descends over their country of origin. I think that is sensible and good, because what must be the most important thing when you flee because of war and conflict is that you have immediate protection. Does that mean, as I said before, that all the challenges have been solved? No, it does not, because we are facing very, very big tasks and challenges in the municipalities with a large number of asylum seekers, and that does not address the proposal here. This must be dealt with in our ordinary work on refugees, which we have just had consultations on in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141100	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141101	Thank you. That is a fine answer from the Minister, but that is not what I asked. I asked the Minister if he would assess the effect of this proposal. As I have understood the government so far, it may be that the government has changed its attitude again, so that one wants to limit the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark on the basis that there are limits to how many we can integrate into Danish society; there are limits to how much financial burden we can choose to bear in relation to asylum accommodation and other things that run into billions. And there I have understood the government's proposal as if it were the government's bid that it would reduce the influx to Denmark. But the Minister for Justice does not answer that, so I ask again: what does the government expect is the effect of this proposal in relation to the influx to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141144	After all, many questions are being asked, and my intention was to answer as fully as possible within one minute. With regard to the impact of L 72 and not the resolution, which is what I have been asked to address at the moment, our assessment is that it will have significance, one might say, at two levels. One is, of course, that when we work on a temporary concept, we take the view that there will be more people who will only be temporary in Denmark, instead of what we have seen as developments in the refugee area for a number of years, namely that it is very, very rare for refugees to be included. So in it there will be an effect • there will be a meaning. How much effect it will have in relation to the influx must become a matter of faith and assessment. We have discussed this on several occasions, and no one has a complete insight or a complete overview of why refugees are going the way they are going. But yes, we think this will have some kind of meaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141246	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141246-2	After all, the Danish People's Party is making a fantastic proposal, and we would like to be able to convince the government of this. But what has been our starting point is, of course, the quite general thing that being a fugitive, and this is in the nature of things, means that at some point you have to go back again. That is the prerequisite for even talking about refugees, otherwise we might as well talk about immigrants. But we are talking about refugees, and we want to help in the neighbourhood, because that is where we think we should be helped, based on the fact that they are refugees. Then I find it strange that it is, like, being launched by the government, as if it were a tightening, and then perhaps not anyway. I cannot understand why we do not simply take it all and then say: the starting point is that the refugees, and this applies both to those who are war-persecuted and to those who are individually persecuted, simply get a temporary status so that they can be sent home when the conditions so require.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141356	I therefore agree that when you are a fugitive, you are running away from something, and hopefully you will also have to return to the country from which you are fleeing. But the questioner knows just as well as I do that there can be a very, very big difference between what it is that brings people to flight. For example, if you are a dissident and are fleeing from a totalitarian regime, it can unfortunately take quite a long time before the situation in your country of origin is such that you can return. There are a number of totalitarian regimes left on this globe, which it is very difficult to see for themselves that people who have fled from can return to. I think that is important to have in the discussion: there is a difference between what it is that brings people to flight. Much of what we see right now in the Middle East is, after all, an urgent need for protection because of the very, very violent, brutal and vile behaviour of Islamic States. And that is what makes the government call for us to work more on temporary residence. We then believe that we are doing this for the group for which it should be done, and that is why we disagree with the Danish People's Party here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141508	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141509	Thank you. But what I find problematic with regard to this whole discussion is that the people that we are helping in this case, and as these tights also apply, are people who can afford to pay a ticket up here and pay people smugglers to come up here. And the Minister has then explained that there is indeed an asylum-like infrastructure, because it is the countries which also give these very favourable conditions, which we, among others, have. Do in Denmark that people seek courage. And I cannot understand why, if you really have to make a significant break in the Danish asylum policy, you simply do not say that it is the temporary residence permit that you give, and that is what you maintain, because people who are refugees have to return at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141605	Yes, but so, I can immediately be worried about the Danish People's Party's proposal for a new break, because it is not so long ago that the Danish People's Party said: let us send them all to Kenya. It was so new in Danish asylum policy, and then the Kenyan authorities, not surprisingly, replied back: No thanks, Denmark, you must be able to cope with your international obligations in your own way. So perhaps the Danish People's Party too, one can say, must rethink the sense of reality and the sense of some of the proposals made by the party in this area. I think we should be honest about the dilemmas. I do not think there is any reason in any way to hide the fact that there is some form of organisation and infrastructure behind what is happening in the area of asylum. And it is true that some of those who come to Denmark are some who have had the opportunity to raise the money to come here and who may have been lucky and have made a better boat over the Mediterranean than others, and who have bypassed the Italian authorities and have run up through Germany and reached Denmark. We might as well be honest with each other about all these dilemmas. It just doesn't change the fact that right now we have a situation in the Middle East where a lot of people are forced to flee themselves, and some of them will seek our protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141716	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141717	After all, I heard what the Minister said to my colleague, but I must admit that I still do not understand it. When the Minister acknowledges that there is something wrong with the asylum system as it is today, why is it that the Minister does not want to listen to the Danish People's Party and call for negotiations so that we can have a completely new system, when we can see that there is this problem with the system as it is today, namely that it is being exploited by traffickers? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141750	Well, I'm happy to listen to the Danish People's Party, just as I listen to everyone else in this discussion. In other words, the fact that there are cynical smugglers who exploit a very, very unfortunate situation in which thousands of people are living must not mean that we must change everything in our legislation in relation to the elements in which it actually works well. But we need to know that this is happening and we must also be able to respond to it. What kind of aim does the government have? Well, we take it as a basis that there is a difference between the background on which people flee. And to me, there is therefore a big difference between whether you have a temporary need for protection because of a specific situation in your country of origin and it can be violent enough, you can see that in Syria right now or one from the outset expected protection needs for a much, much longer period.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141846	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141847	The Minister has previously acknowledged that there is something wrong with the system. Now I understand the answer that she thinks it is enough with the adjustments that the government is now putting forward and that she will not be helping to create a new system. Because the minister says you can't just change the whole system. But I guess you can come up with more directions, and I guess you can also come up with more things that make the system not support trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120141921	But so, in all friendship, there is nothing in the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party to address in any way the problem of trafficking in human beings through Europe. And that's because it's really, really hard to solve in internal Danish legislation. It is true that such a slightly more colourful proposal was then put forward that all the refugees in the world could be sent, I understand, to East Africa. In addition to the fact that East Africa may find it a little strange that it is precisely East Africa that has to take on that task, and the rest of the world does not want it already, not surprisingly, reported from the Kenyan authorities that they expect Denmark, like other countries, to lift the share of responsibility that is ours. We just need to do this wisely and in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142008	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142009	Thank you, Minister. The Minister is very keen to distinguish between people who have fled for an individual reason, as the Minister says, for example. because of a totalitarian regime, that one has been a dissident, and people who have fled war, for example. in Syria. I think the Minister said that it was difficult to imagine that the situation changed in a totalitarian regime. What makes the government and the Minister think that the conflict in Syria, for example, which has so far been since March 2011, is more temporary than so many other conflicts that have been over time in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142105	Somalia is precisely a good example, because a few years ago it was estimated that people from Somalia could not be repatriated because of the general conditions. Shortly thereafter, the international assessment was that the situation had stabilised in such a way that we can do so. So Somalia is actually a pretty good example of how, fortunately, the situation can change within a very short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142126	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142127	Then we return to my question, which was: what makes the government think that the conflict in Syria has a temporary nature and is different from so many other places, so that it is now that we need to change it, and not in the past? And do you get anything out of this at all, other than keeping people in a quite uncertain situation, because they cannot have a real basis for residence, a real future?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142157	But I do hope that the Syrians' prospects are in Syria. Well, that is my hope, and there is no one who can tell me that the perhaps about 3 million Syrians who have been sent on the run right now because of the Islamic State and the Assad regime do not have a desire to be part of Syria. I think most of them have had to leave their homes, their village, their local area, their networks, their jobs, their schooling. As far as I am concerned, and I would like to emphasise this, no one can predict the situation in Syria in a year's time. I personally would like to refrain from being a fortune teller, both in relation to Syria and in relation to other places. It is not the case that totalitarian regimes do not fall. Thank God it's happening. Unfortunately, there are also some who have maintained their character for many years, but exactly the example of Somalia tells us that what may look really, really difficult for one year may have changed in a very few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142257	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142259	But the Minister does not really answer why people expect that in Syria there will be peace in a year's time. The Secretary of State has said it will take a long time. The organizations say it's gonna take a long time. So I would like to know what the Minister is building his optimism on. Now that you are putting forward a proposal for temporary residence permits of one year, I would say that the legislation already provides for the possibility of creating two-year residence permits. So I would like to know: how many times have the two-year residence permits been used and how many times have they been able to send home after two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142343	It can be said in general terms that including the basis of residence in the area of refugees is something that has been used very little. Well, I would say that I think it is probably a bit of a linguistic objection to claim that I appear to be very optimistic. My basic view of being alive and the world around me is optimistic, but it is not true to say that I have expressed optimism in relation to the situation in the Middle East, on the contrary. I am actually starting my whole speech today by stressing the seriousness and the enormously violent nature of the situation in the Middle East. I have not claimed, and the government has not claimed that the situation in Syria will be different in a year's time. On what basis, though, should we build it? But what we are saying is that it may be that the situation is different and that we basically feel that, when you are on the run from something that hopefully is something temporary, namely a conflict situation, then the possibility of being able to change the basis of residence must also be present. However, at no time have I assessed the situation in Syria in a year's time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142451	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142452	But then I don't understand why it's necessary to change this part. If the Minister says that there has been little use in including residence permits, it must be because there is not quite a precedent for things to change and become very stable in a short time when there are war zones. So can the Minister come a little closer, how many times have the two-year residence permits been used and how many times have they been withdrawn? In fact, I think this is an important input into the debate, because now we are talking about a further tightening of the two-year residence permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142528-2	There are very, very great demands if we are to include the basis of residence for refugees today. When very precise figures are asked about two-year residence permits, I must be allowed to reply in writing so that I can give a precise picture to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142546	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120142559	Thank you for that, President. There is, to say the least, some kind of asylum chaos in Denmark. At any rate, there is a very, very great challenge with asylum seekers. The government expects up to 20,000 asylum seekers to arrive in both 2014 and 2015 and that is the highest number in 15 years. A large proportion of asylum seekers come from Syria, but countries such as Syria. Eritrea also takes up quite a lot in the statistics. We are actually going back to Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's time as Prime Minister in 2001 to see such a great influx to Denmark. It challenges our country in terms of integration as well as economics. There are, after all, some very high economic costs associated with such a massive influx, and there are challenges in terms of value and integration. The government is therefore partly responsible for the increase in influx to Denmark. If you look at the proposal and look at the background, you can say that there are two ways of obtaining asylum in Denmark. Either you can get convention status. This is done by fulfilling the conditions of the refugee convention to be a person who has a well-founded fear of being persecuted because of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular group or political opinion, that is to say, the refugee of a convention. If you are likely to risk the death penalty, torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment if you return to your country of origin, you can also be recognised and be given protection status. That's the second category. Now the government will make a third category, and that is what the draft law mainly proposes. The Refugee Board decided at the end of 2003 to change practices based on a European Court of Human Rights judgment, and the change of practice means that persons coming from areas where there is a high risk of human rights violations in the form of torture or other degrading treatment must, on the basis of asylum, be granted, even if they are not individually persecuted or have personally experienced human rights violations. And the government, by means of this bill, L 72, will introduce a new provision into the Aliens Act, which deals in particular with the group which will be granted asylum after the change of practice. They must now be granted a temporary residence permit of one year, with the possibility of a two-year extension. And only after the first extension can those concerned have family reunification. The proposal also contains a number of other elements, but I will not spend time on them in my rapporteur's speech. If I may say something briefly about what the policy of the Left is, I would say that the policy of the Left is crystal clear. Firstly, we want to tackle the challenge and the asylum chaos that we have and the massive influx of asylum seekers, to which the government's many facilitations and conditions improvements in the area of asylum have contributed actively. Secondly, we believe that there is a clear limit to how many asylum seekers Denmark can accommodate economically as well as in terms of integration. Thirdly, we have the principle principle that asylum seekers should be helped in the neighbourhood where the most money can be helped and that Denmark should not unnecessarily support an asylum system in which cynical traffickers earn millions and billions. Fourthly, we are pointing out that there is a need to roll back part of the government's relaxations in a number of areas and further tighten the legislation so that the inflow is curbed as far as possible. The big question is, does the government's proposal make that happen? And the short answer is that it is our immediate assessment that the government's proposal does not. If I am going to elaborate on this, I can ask a rhetorical question, because it is a little difficult to find out whether the government's aim with the proposal is to reduce the number of asylum seekers, or whether it alone is to ensure that the municipalities have a little better time to prepare for the reception of family members, because it takes one year to apply. We can't get an answer to that. If the aim is to reduce the number of asylum seekers, you should have an impact assessment, and if you look at the Finance Act for next year, you can see that the government is counting on 20 000 asylum seekers coming next year as well. It is, of course, a confession case: the government does not expect this proposal to have any significance or, at best, little impact on the influx of asylum seekers. We have also had a long discussion about who is actually affected by the government's changes, and the government has provided a variety of information on how many Syrian asylum seekers will be covered. So we have a slightly different explanation, depending on who has been the Minister of Justice. First Karen Hækkerup said it was the majority. Then it was a third, then it was a quarter, and now the government does not want to quantify how many asylum seekers the proposal will actually include. But you have to conclude that it is fewer and fewer, the more you dive into the bill. However, there are some questions here that we need to get an answer to if the Danish Parliament is to legislate on an enlightened basis. We cannot adopt a bill in the Folketing which we do not know what the effect is, and we in the Left will follow that closely in the committee procedure that is coming, and that is why we are not prepared for urgent procedure. Indeed, if the Minister replies quickly and adequately, we can, in fact, take a quick stand on the draft law. But we think that will be difficult, because there are many doubts. Then there is the question of family reunification, which the government is proposing to limit. When the government first presented the proposal, the Minister for Integration said:'refugees have the right to family reunification'. In what we have presented, there are no changes in it. It's clear. Nevertheless, in his opening speech, the Prime Minister proposes that persons with the new special protection status should wait one year before they can have family reunification. Even with the government's proposals, however, the overall waiting period in Denmark will in the vast majority of cases be lower than for example. in Sweden. And one might also wonder in one's quiet mind that the government has abolished the start-up aid so that recognised asylum seekers receive cash aid immediately, but that they do not get the right to family reunification. I think that if you ask most recognised asylum seekers or refugees, they would probably prefer to have access to their family up here rather than to have access to social benefits. So that the government chooses to go down that road, we're at least a little puzzled. But what I will try to conclude is that, in the view of the Left, the government is messing around the asylum area in terms of numbers, economics and politics. This can, of course, cover up the fact that within the government you do not entirely agree on which way to go in this area. In any case, we have seen very different statements from radical ministers and social democratic ministers when we ask about the area and about the bill. Then there is the whole question of temporary protection and, as I said, the government is proposing that we should only be here temporarily. That is why we need temporary protection and a short residence permit. In my best opinion, and having read the draft law, I think it is best to describe it as a big bluff, purely symbolic legislation. The truth has been and some of the questions have been discussed here today that it will prove extremely difficult to put into practice. The Prime Minister said in his opening speech: "We will send refugees back home when the worst riots are over. But I mean, who doesn't think I'm sorry about that, for example. Is it really possible to send Syrian refugees home in one year or in two years' time or in five years' time? It is difficult to find an expert who points out that the protection given to Syrian asylum seekers in Denmark can be removed in 1 year or 2 years or 5 years for that matter. After all, there is no provision for temporary protection, and that is also where one wonders about the lack of coherence of government policy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the contrary, the time they are here on this new temporary arrangement counts if they are to have a permanent residence permit. And we wonder when the government says it is temporary that it has not really made coherent legislation that shows it. On the contrary, there are a number of contradictions in the legislation that the government is proposing. When you ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Integration, he also says that the refugees who receive this slightly lower status, which will be a temporary legal basis, must have the same integration programme as everyone else. So we see some major problems in the legislative proposal and we have serious doubts as to what the proposal really will mean if it is implemented. We also see some of the problems that the bill may create in the slightly longer term and that subsequent governments, whoever wins a forthcoming parliamentary election, will have to clean up, pick up, patch up if you like. It's not just us who have this concern. If you take the trouble to read the consultation answers, you will see that a large number of consultation parties indicate that there are major problems in understanding the bill. I would just like to bring out one of them, namely from the Lawyers' Council and the Lawyers' Society, who in their hearing answer on page 2 • and so some are not normally political in their hearing answer, they are legal • writes: • The real main content of the present draft therefore seems to be to cut off the possibility of family reunification in the first year for the category of asylum seekers who may obtain temporary protection status, and when the result is only a small number, there does not seem to be any need to introduce the new status for objective reasons. I think we owe it to the Danish Parliament to give a thorough examination of this before we take a position on it. That is why I cannot here today promise that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. We have a number of things that we want clarified in committee. And that is why I do not think we can do it as quickly as the government is proposing. Finally, if I have to deal with the second proposal we are discussing today, then I have to say to the Danish People's Party that we understand why the proposal has been tabled. And we also agree with the need for a debate and a different approach to the area than the micro-tightenings that the government is proposing. We cannot support B-13 in the form in which it lies, but we may think that a report could be written in committee if there is a majority in favour of it. We are positive about this. Then I have promised to say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that they support the government's proposal. They do not support the B 13 of the Danish People's Party but, like the Left, they will be prepared to write a report in the further work on B 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120143641	There are a number of questions, and the first is Mr. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120143646	Thank you. The Left rapporteur cannot promise that the Left will vote in favour of L 72. This may upset me because I had hoped that together we could find some good solutions to the major challenges we face with asylum seekers in Denmark. I believe that the rapporteur is continuing a zigzag course, because it is not many days ago that Lars Løkke Rasmussen said otherwise in the media that this was a very fine proposal. But I would like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that the Left itself has not made many constructive proposals? You have had the opportunity this summer in connection with your foreigner's initiative... An open Denmark for those who can and will. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur how many proposals have been put forward by the Liberal Group in its initiative to change the conditions under which asylum is granted in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120143744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120143745	There is no suggestion in our aliens' initiative. But the government has not changed the conditions for asylum either. What we are discussing, the way the government chooses to go, is to turn on some of the conditions there are. The government has then chosen to go over something that I do not think is a particularly dangerous path, namely to limit the right to family reunification and postpone the time when we in the Left say that, instead of trying to solve a problem for some who have come here, we must then do something to ensure that the influx is reduced. And there is the question of facilitating access to family reunification, the possibility of living and working outside the centres, the abolition of start-up aid and a large number of other things, and that, of course, has an effect on the flow. There the government could start, and we'd be happy to come to the Justice Department for a cup of coffee if the Minister of Justice lacks any suggestions on what to do about the influx of asylum. But the government could start by saying: the policy we have been pursuing for the last three years in this area has been wrong and has some responsibility for the asylum chaos we are now facing. That is why it would also suit the government to clean up after it instead of making a proposal which, in my view, at best contains a microscopic tightening of the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120143901	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120143903	Thank you. It was, of course, a clear admission that the Left itself is not making any proposals. This, unfortunately, confirms me on the assumption that the Left has a different errand than they say in their entire asylum policy rhetoric. I think it is a pity that, instead of using polemics, we cannot come together to support a proposal that is proper, fast and effective and that we also respect international conventions, show humanity and so on. It is a pity that we cannot support it. The rapporteur speaks of relaxations. But does it not impress the rapporteur that these alleged reductions have long since been shot down and do not hold water at all? For example, on 3 October Berlingske reviewed the alleged relaxations one by one, and it does not hold water at all. It's shot all the way down. Why is it that the Left will not take responsibility instead and provide realistic answers to the challenges we face with the number of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144013	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144015	Thank you. Actually, I think I did, too. I have set out our policy here and, as I have said, we can read our foreign initiative. It is true that we do not change the conditions under which asylum can be granted, but we are changing a large number of other things and rolling back a large number of the concessions made by the government. I would like to give an example of how the government conducts a double standard policy in this area. Some years ago, the government agreed with Enhedslisten to set up a larger amount of millions to speed up procedures in the area of family reunification. As a result, it takes a short time to process an application for family reunification. This then leads to many asylum seekers choosing Denmark. When you ask them why they do it, they say that they refuse Denmark because it takes a long time in Sweden, but it takes a short time in Denmark. Who created that system? The government has that by giving money to the area. Then how does the government try to solve it? This is done by creating a new, special temporary protection system, which means postponing the time to apply for family reunification. I don't think it's going to have much effect. In conclusion, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, that I actually think it is very factual and very respectful to the people's regime that the parties of the Folketing do not stand on the speaking chair and say on all proposals that they either vote for or against. After all, the purpose of three readings in the Parliamentary Assembly is to have the opportunity to delve into a proposal and find out what that means and then finally take a position. And I can promise you, sir. Troels Ravn, that the Left is going to take a clear position on this proposal. But we'd like to know what that means first. In fact, we think that is quite factual.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144148	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to say that for the time being there are six speakers just so that the rapporteur is prepared for it. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144157	The Left rapporteur began his speech by saying that the policy of the Left is crystal clear and then followed a rather greasy glass without any response to what the Left really wants to do to limit the influx of asylum seekers. Can we not have just one suggestion as to what the Left will do to limit the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144222	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144222-2	One could start by rolling back some of the government's relaxations, abolishing the possibility of living and working outside the centres, introducing a new scheme in relation to start-up aid as a few proposals. In other words, the government has made a large number of improvements to the conditions, which of course attract asylum seekers. If you read the Danish Police Service's magazine, you can see that in their previous issue they have described how asylum seekers are quite well aware of what we are offering in Denmark. And there is just the fact that the government and the party represented by Mrs Trine Bramsen have made a large number of concessions and improvements in terms of conditions, and this, of course, has an impact on the influx. I used to give an example of family reunification, for which time has been reduced, and this has increased the influx. And, as I said, there are also financial incentives, such as that now you are no longer getting start-up help, but full cash assistance, when you are recognised as an asylum seeker in Denmark, and that of course attracts more. So you could start by rolling back those relaxations if Mrs Trine Bramsen would otherwise be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144328	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144329	Now it is the case that an untruth does not become more right by being repeated many times, and the fact is that there has not been so much as a comma in the possibilities of obtaining asylum in Denmark. It has been established countless times. So I would like to return to the question, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen did not reply: What will the Left do to limit the influx to Denmark? Just one suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144352	Mrs Trine Bramsen knows very well that there are several reasons for choosing to apply for asylum in different countries. The likelihood of recognition is one thing. We say that may be difficult to touch, because there we have tightened pretty much; so there is probably not much room for it. Then there is the second option, and that is what conditions you will be offered if you are recognised. And there Mrs Trine Bramsen cannot deny that the government has made improvements in terms of terms in a large number of areas. It has been made more attractive to apply for asylum in Denmark. There we say in the Left: let's start by rolling back some of those things. And then we have supplemented with some other initiatives that you can read about in our aliens' outlays • Denmark • for those who can and will!•. I think that is a fine answer, so Mrs Trine Bramsen should not claim that we have proposed that we change the conditions for obtaining asylum. We never talked about that. We have talked about the conditions that are being offered to asylum seekers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144450	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144453	Thank you. In other words, I fully agree with what the rapporteur has said, including with regard to the government. I do not think that the government and the governing parties should start shooting at who has been ambiguous in this relationship, because I would say that there have been various reports from the Radical Left and from the Social Democratic Party as to whether it was a tightening or not. However, if we now agree that this bill tabled by the government is not enough at all, then I find it rather difficult to understand why the Left cannot vote in favour of our proposal. We fully agree that we need to help in the neighbourhoods. But we are not talking about immediate areas now, we are talking about the people who have already come up here. I do not see why the Left cannot accept the temporary status of the people who come up here. Because I assume that we agree that the starting point for being a refugee is that at some point you have to return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144602-2	I would say that I think there are some positive points in the Danish People's Party's proposal, but there are also some factual points that need to be clarified, and we can clarify them in committee, and then we can write a report. If we need to make these changes to asylum legislation and conditions for asylum seekers, which need to soften up the massive pressure that Denmark is experiencing at the moment, and the bill that it leaves to Danish society, both economically and in terms of integration, then I do not think that the most appropriate way to do this is to vote for the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution; then I think that the way to do it is to sit down, preferably with the government, if the government would otherwise be involved, and find out something. But the government doesn't want to, because you only want to be involved in this, which has little effect. That's how we usually do it, too. I'm sure that when we get another government at some point, hopefully, the Left and the Danish People's Party can help solve that problem together. I have every confidence in that. But I do not think that the form in which it is done should be the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144703	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144705	Yes, yes, but we agree that, of course, much more can be done and that the crucial thing is that you get help in the neighbourhoods, so that not all these people from Syria or many of them are channeled up here. We are in favour of this being the case. We also have a consideration to take into account Denmark, the cohesion force and Denmark for the next 10 and 20 and 50 years. Yeah, I get that. But what I am just asking is that if you do not think that the wording is wrong, then you agree that it would be a tightening that the Left could accept, that is to say that the people who come up here will be given a temporary residence permit so that they can be sent home afterwards. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144808	I am not absolutely convinced that this is a good idea, that it will lead to massive cases and that every time you look at all cases you have to look at. I believe that the problem with the government's proposal for the new temporary status is that it will make no difference because there is no peace and happiness in Syria next year. So the system created by the government risks being just a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of processing costs, which will not lead to anything that will not lead to a single returner, but which will lead to people having to re-evaluate their residence basis with everything that belongs to them. These are, therefore, essential financial resources which must be set aside for this. If the prospect of that leading to something is very limited, then as a responsible politician you have to ask yourself whether it makes sense. And that's what we've been asking ourselves in the Left. That is why we do not think it makes much sense in relation to the government's proposals, and we also believe that this is at least a problem with the proposal that the Danish People's Party has in its B 13.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144906	The next question is Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120144909	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, in his rapporteur's speech and also in the answers here, is very concerned about what this is going to mean. I think one can reasonably clearly answer that, because it will mean that there are people who have fled from war and violence and who come to Denmark and will not experience security, but a quite, quite uncertain situation, while they can then sit and fear what happens to their children while they wait for the opportunity of family reunification. I understand, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, that what the Left is aiming for, this effect that is being talked about, is that you want fewer people to come to Denmark. I'd like to know why the Left thinks people are running. Do you believe in the Left that people are fleeing because of Danish asylum policy, or perhaps because there is war and other unpleasantness and atrocities?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145015	Some are certainly fleeing because there is war and because they can be subjected to torture and a large number of other things. Some also flee for reasons of poverty, and some may flee for reasons of convenience. There are many different reasons for this. Frankly, I believe that of many of the asylum seekers who come to Denmark, a great deal is, of course, really on the run, but I also believe that some people are taking advantage of the asylum system that we have set up. And we have seen examples of asylum seekers who make the same asylum statements, and some also claim that there are some who are not fleeing Syria, but from some neighbouring countries, where they also own real estate and such things. So I think we should be aware that the asylum system we have is also being exploited by some people who are not entitled to the status of protection, but who may find it difficult to lift the burden of proof to the contrary. So there are many reasons why people are fleeing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145114	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145116	Perhaps I should be grateful for the answer, because I think that perhaps there was recognition that there are some people who are not fleeing for fun, but are fleeing from war and violence, and that we in Denmark have an obligation to help those we can now and who need it. I think that is perhaps what the rapporteur said. But I would like to hear: if the Left could, would the Left reject all refugees? Well, how few should we accept? Should everyone just go to Sweden or Germany instead? Or are there after all some people that the Left believes Denmark should help and reach out to?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145201	Well, of course there are some who are on the run, and they need help. We are starting from the point of view that we should help them in the neighbourhood and that it is strange that there is a system in which people smugglers earn thousands of euros from smuggling people to Denmark and other European countries and that we are actually helping to support that system instead of helping refugees in the neighbourhood. Mrs Pernille Skipper can ask as she does, but I can't give any figures. I can only say that the massive influx to Denmark does not mean that we cannot be accommodated economically or in terms of integration. We need to find a solution to this, and we believe that the government has not come up with a viable solution, but rather a very short-term solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145249	The next question is Mrs. Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145252	I understood the rapporteur correctly: do we want longer processing times? I mean, is that on purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145303	No, we do not want that in the Left, but we are just pointing out the paradox of the fact that the government, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, I think, are setting aside money to shorten the processing time, and it will then be a major pool factor, i.e. an attraction factor for asylum seekers. The former Minister of Justice has denied that there was such a connection, but now you recognise it so suddenly, and then you find a way to tighten it up. So, I think the government owes it to acknowledge that one has a responsibility for the massive influx to Denmark that we see and that it is a consequence of the relaxation of the immigration policy that the government has implemented with the SF and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145347	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145348	I just need to understand what the rapporteur of the Left is saying. In other words, if you are against the government spending money on it, will the Left take that money and thus deliberately create longer processing times?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145402	No, we won't. On the contrary, with our foreigners' initiative, we want to open Denmark to those who can and will! • create a shorter processing time for people seeking asylum so that answers can be obtained more quickly. And in relation to family reunification, we will reinstate the fee. I think it might be useful to reinstate this, and it has been another relaxation of the immigration legislation that this government has implemented, and a contributing cause of the massive influx to Denmark that we see. I think we have to acknowledge that the Radical Left and the Left disagree very much on foreign policy. It's practically nothing new. The new thing is that the government is trying to pretend that they think the same thing as the blue opposition, and so they do not. But will a completely different immigration and integration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145449	Mrs Malene Borst Hansen with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145452	Thank you. I have to admit that I do not quite see that very crystal clear, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen started by saying is in what the Left wants in this area. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is the increase we have seen in the number of asylum seekers over the summer and early autumn, in the view of the Left, an expression of the Danish Government's asylum policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145525-2	In the Left, we believe that there is a connection between the improvements in the conditions that the government has made to the improved economic conditions and the rights that have been recognised as asylum seekers and the rights that you have while you are an asylum seeker in Denmark and the search for Denmark. And I also believe that the great influx of Serbs we saw last spring is proof of that, as well as the massive influx we see from Eritrea. These are good examples of applying to Denmark because the conditions are good and because the government has boasted in the past about how to improve the conditions. Now we have the consequences, and I think the government should acknowledge that rather than deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145603	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145604	But frankly: On the Left side, you write in your motion that one of the relaxations that the government has made, namely the possibility of living and working outside the centres, should be one of the reasons why, like Syrian refugee, you apply to Denmark. As far as I know, 66 people have used it, 66 people against thousands of refugees from Syria. Isn't it excuse me to flip on a deeply serious situation? What is the Left's answer besides the fact that the 66 people should not have lived outside the centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145651	Well, that's one of many relaxations. We are up to over 30 relaxations of the law on foreigners, and it all has a meaning. Then we can have different interpretations of it and conjecture of how important it is. I think it is relatively important, and the Radical Left obviously does not think it matters. When you ask out in reality, you can see that a number of asylum seekers explain that they are applying to Denmark because there are very good conditions for them. And it's rumored that you have to live and work outside the centers. Then it may well be that there are actually few who have taken advantage of it. But that's what the smugglers tell them they're smuggling. Then I would just like to say to the rapporteur that if the rapporteur is in doubt about the policy of the Left, we can read about it in our immigration report or revisit my rapporteur's speech on the Danish Parliament's website in both writing and video recording. And what was said was clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145741	Jeppe Mikkelsen for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145744	Thank you so much. I understand, sir. Karsten Lauritzen is critical of the government relaxing, and now Mr. Karsten Lauritzen is critical of the government's tightening up. That is such a rather special logic, and I would therefore like to ask what the Left sees as positive alternatives. More specifically, I would like to ask the Left's position on the Danish People's Party's proposal to send refugees who come to Denmark by plane to Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145814	But I have not understood that the Danish People's Party's proposal was to send asylum seekers by plane to Africa. I understand, and I think that we should be honest with each other, that camps are being set up in the neighbourhood for where people have fled, and that proposal has been examined several times. My chairman, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, has called the proposal interesting, and we think it is. Because we have a massive problem in Europe, where the asylum system we have is close to collapse and where we see a massive influx. We cannot hold on to this either in the short or long term, so we have to find a solution, and there are all the proposals that are interesting. And I have to say that the Danish People's Party is something better at making proposals than the government. It doesn't come from much, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145901	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145903	So what the Left believes is that the pressure for asylum on Europe is so widespread that, for example, there is a need for a European asylum policy. countries such as Lebanon, where the population is smaller than the Danish population and where they have over a million refugees, should be better at dealing with that asylum pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145920	After all, it is a very small percentage of asylum seekers coming from Syria's neighbouring regions that end up in Europe with a very small percentage. Most of them are actually in the neighbourhoods, and I think that more people would actually like to be in the neighbourhoods and would be in the neighbourhoods if we provided the necessary help. The then VK government was one of the biggest advocates of increased help in the neighbourhood, and we are also insisting on that. Despite our proposals for savings in development aid, we are in the process of giving more money to help in the neighbourhood. For there most refugees can be helped for the money, and that is what we think there is good coherence in.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120145956	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150000	I get a little upset that the Left travels around with stories that the government's concessions to foreigners are what is leading to us now seeing a boom in the number of asylum seekers. This, of course, has something to do with the fact that there are a lot of ugly things going on in the world right now. Can the rapporteur of the Left not confirm that the condition for living and working outside a centre is that one cooperates to be sent home? In other words, the condition is that we should get back to the country from which we come; we have rejected asylum seekers. How on earth can that be an attraction factor?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150044	I can confirm that. And I would say that I have not said that it is entirely the responsibility and guilt of the government that we are experiencing an historically large influx of asylum. I have said that the government has a responsibility for this and I have said that the government's relaxation of policy has been important. But, of course, the fact that there is war in Syria is also important, and that war does not disappear, even if we have another government. We are very honest about that, but we are also honest about the fact that conditions mean something. In fact, I must be honest and say that, in my eagerness to say the first, I have forgotten what the rapporteur was asking. So I think I have to finish my remark here and answer it in the second question by the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150123	The rapporteur for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150125	It can go. It can happen to me once in a while. What I asked was: how on earth can it become an attraction when the condition is that you have to cooperate on your return? Well, the condition is that you should be sent home. How on earth can it be an attraction if it means that when you take advantage of the offer to live and work outside the centre, you have to be sent home? I just think that the Left should stop travelling around with such false explanations and put up a picture for the whole world of something that really doesn't really hold up. That is actually just what I am trying to get the rapporteur to recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150206	The SF rapporteur assumes that an asylum seeker travels to Denmark on a fully informed basis as to what the conditions are. I do not think that is the case. On the contrary, I believe that we are being told that there are good conditions. There are some smugglers who communicate that asylum is easy to obtain here, here there are good conditions and that it is generally a large and extensive welfare state. That is the case. When legislation is adopted that allows people to live and work outside the centres, it can quickly be converted into a right to it, and I therefore believe that this is important for some and that is why they have chosen to apply to Denmark. I have also seen a few asylum seekers say in the media that this is why they went to Denmark. So, of course, terms mean something. Then we in the Parliamentary Assembly can disagree on how much that means, but should we not all agree that it matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150307	The world is on fire, and we find ourselves at a time in world history when a great many people are forced to flee from war and strife. In particular, the civil war in Syria and the horrors it brings have forced many families to flee from their homes. Right now, there's more...
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150334	I would like to ask the audience to sit down quietly and not demonstrate. Okay, I'll interrupt the meeting for five minutes. The sitting is adjourned. I would like to ask that the audience be removed from the public balcony.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150604	I think we are prepared to resume the sitting, and that, of course, starts with new speaking time for the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120150616	Thank you. The world is on fire, and we find ourselves at a time in world history when a great many people are forced to flee from war and strife. In particular, the civil war in Syria and the horrors it brings have forced many families to flee from their homes. At present, therefore, there are more than 50 million refugees in the world, and this naturally also has a spill-over effect on Denmark. In recent times we have seen very large fluctuations in the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark; in a very short time there have been extraordinary numbers of people who, of course, still have to be treated properly and respectfully. It puts pressure on the Danish asylum system and it creates a challenge for Denmark, which calls for concrete and rapid action. That is why we are today discussing a draft law, L 72, which basically tightens the current asylum rules from 2002. Today, the rules do not take into account the fact that there is a difference between the situation of individually persecuted refugees and generally persecuted refugees. For the latter group, protection requirements are generally more temporary, as the overall situation in the home Member State may change in a short time. Therefore, the draft law introduces a temporary protection status so that generally persecuted refugees can be sent home more quickly when the worst riots are over. At the same time, the possibility of family reunification is postponed by one year. If the stay is temporary and of a shorter duration, as proposed by the bill, it does not make the same sense to carry out family reunification. It can be costful and have major consequences, and on that basis it should only be done in connection with a stay of longer duration, that is to say around a year. I will not deny that it will have a noticeable impact on some families, and this is not an easy decision, but I believe that it is the right way to go to balance the asylum rules. For the Socialists, it is very important that we maintain the balance, the balance between assuming our responsibilities, while at the same time lifting no more than our backs can bear. For of course Denmark has a responsibility to help, and so do we. Denmark plays a major and important role in the neighbourhood, and the people who need protection will also have it. But it is clear that we cannot help everyone. With this bill, the government solves a difficult situation quickly and firmly; we do so within international conventions and in a way that is right for Denmark. The bill is tangible and concrete. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the general debate on the increasing number of asylum seekers. It has been full of very harsh rhetoric and many heated outbursts. We have had to listen to unrealistic and ill-thought-out proposals, as well as accusations and myths about government policy. One has been busy placing a simple, clear responsibility for a difficult and complicated situation rather than making concrete proposals to help Denmark out of it. It may be annoying, but in the end it is the responsibility of the government to make Denmark work. That responsibility has been borne by the government with this bill, which is why the Socialists can of course support the bill. In the same vein, I should like to inform you that we cannot therefore support B 13, which is being treated together with L 72. The proposers of B 13 want to tighten the rules on asylum and immigration policy further than what the government is proposing. It is the view of the Social Democrats that the draft law L 72 makes the necessary changes to the legislation and thus responds fairly, similarly and sensibly to the challenges posed by the current refugee situation in the world. Further legislation goes beyond what is necessary, which is why we cannot support B 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151040	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can inform you that four comments have been entered for the time being. The first is sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151049	Thank you. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Troels Ravn can confirm that the original intention of the government was indeed that the bill should include a majority of the refugees who came from Syria. It was the original intention of the government. Then we have a legislative proposal that actually includes a minority. How does the Socialist rapporteur feel about the fact that we are actually playing out in public, that we are now making a move that includes a majority, that is to say, a tightening that affects more or more people, and what we are dealing with today in the Chamber is a legislative proposal that actually goes in and hits a minority. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151127	With L 72, we are basically tightening up the asylum rules from 2002, and what is important to us with the legislative proposal here is that we can take into account the fact that there is a difference between the situation of individual refugees and generally persecuted refugees. With the bill here, we find a balance, also a balance, in that both pragmatically we have to carry out this task properly with the municipalities, and at the same time we also have to live up to humanity, we have to live up to the international conventions that are in this area. Overall, L 72 lives up to being able to take account of the various elements I have mentioned, so that is why it is the proposal we are debating today so that we can quickly and effectively take into account the increasing pressure on asylum that we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151227	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151229	I think the rapporteur should answer the question. What I was asking was that when the government launched its initiative, its proposal in the field of foreigners, the government gave the public the impression that it was a majority, that the ambition of the government, the aim of the proposal, was that the tightening should apply to a majority of those who came here from Syria or who fled as war refugees from Syria, but then we are left with a proposal that really only affects a minority. How does the Socialist rapporteur feel about that, in other words, that people are being deceived and said that a majority is being struck, and then we have a proposal that hits a minority? I therefore think that the rapporteur should reply to that. I would also like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the Minister, who, as I understood it, agreed with the Danish People's Party that basically we have a problem with the asylum system, because the current asylum system supports a system in which a lot of criminals make money from smuggling people into Europe, including Denmark. Does the rapporteur agree with that? And if the rapporteur could answer the first question, it would also be excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151325	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151327	The situation is not that the government in any way deceives the population at all. With this proposal, L 72, we are dealing in a good, responsible way with the challenges we face in relation to our asylum policy and the fact that we are experiencing an increasing number of refugees coming to Denmark. It is precisely by distinguishing between being individually persecuted and being generally persecuted that we have the possibility of being able to make a temporary residence permit of one year. After 1 year, we re-evaluate the situation. Similarly, we also postpone family reunification, and after 10 months we can apply for family reunification, and the situation can be assessed. It is in a good, proper way, in which we also take into account conventions, taking into account these refugees, who are in a difficult situation, in a firm but proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151425	The next question is Mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151430	Thank you. Sir. Troels Ravn started his rapporteur's speech by saying that the world is on fire. And I could almost add here: and the Assembly Hall was filled with song. It was, of course, unfortunate that we had to interrupt in the middle of Mr. Troels Ravn's rapporteur's speech, but we have got back to work and heard Mr Ravn's speech. Troels Ravn's rapporteur's speech to the end. I'm still a little unsure if this is good enough. Sir. Martin Henriksen just asked whether the rapporteur agrees with the Minister when she says that there is something wrong with the asylum system in Denmark. But I would also like to ask Mr. Troels Ravn: Do the Social Democrats even ask the social democratic hinterland? After all, we hear social democratic mayors who also believe that there is something wrong with the asylum system as it is today, and the austerity that the government thinks they are putting forward now. After all, there are Social Democrats in the hinterland who also believe that this is not good enough. Of course, I am not going to interfere in how to work in the Social Democratic Party, but do you even ask the mayors in the West region who say that this is not good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151537	With the draft law here, L 72, we are facing a major challenge in relation to our asylum and immigration policy. There should be no uncertainty about that, and we are not telling anyone anything about it. With regard to our hinterland and it is not only the social democratic hinterland, but it is the municipalities as such that include elements here that enable them in the municipalities to solve this difficult task properly. At the same time, we also know that the Finance Act provides funds for us to compensate the municipalities so that the task can be solved. Because it is very, very important for the people who come here in a difficult situation that the municipalities can then also make plans for health tests, integration etc. And there is reason to pay tribute here today to the municipalities that have already started the task, including the voluntary society out there, which, in relation to active citizenship, is doing a great job. And that's what we're gonna do with the bill here, L 72, so we're gonna go in and support it. We should not have more refugees, asylum seekers here than we can manage.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151651	Then it's Mrs. Birthe Rønn Hornbech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151705	Sir. Troels Ravn said in a speech to the Left rapporteur that it was a pity that the Left could not just say today whether they voted in favour. The rapporteur of the Left has clearly stated that we have many things to ask. The thing is, this is a piece of lawlessness. There are very short consultation periods so that the knowledgeable organisations cannot respond properly; there is an urgent procedure here in the Folketing so that we cannot find out what this is about. That's it, sir. Apparently, Troels Ravn stands for. But that is why he must know things for himself, and so I would like to ask: if it is now claimed that it is in line with the conventions, how does it agree with the consultation answers that indicate that the conventions are talking about the unity of the family? And if sir... Troels Ravn believes that the limitation of family reunification is not unconstitutional, why not say that all refugees in the first year have been cut off from family reunification? Where is the legal basis for the view of the conventions, as Mr. Troels Ravn expresses?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151803	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151805	It's not a matter of lawlessness. And it is quite certain that we must also ensure in the continued work on legislation here that we can, for example, answer the questions that are being asked properly. And we will ensure that in committee too. This isn't an act of lawlessness. With regard to the consultation answers, it is true that there are organisations expressing criticism. I just have to say that, of course, we are listening to it. And I must also say clearly and honestly that we do not agree. We do not believe that the draft law here is in breach of international Then I would like to say to Mrs Rønn Hornbech of the Left that I find it extremely problematic that a large party such as the Left will not help to find solutions to the challenges we face in relation to the large number of asylum seekers, but is trying to make political money out of a war in Syria, the ravages of the Islamic State in Iraq and the large numbers of refugees and asylum seekers who come up through Europe, which of course also gets an infection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151921	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120151923	Well, it is an incredible arrogance of power that you cannot be allowed to do proper parliamentary treatment, but you must be blamed for knowing what the proposal is about before you decide what to vote on. This bill is a piece of legislation, and the rapporteur cannot even answer the question of the legal basis of human rights for breaking up a family. But then I would like to ask another question, since you are so excited about temporary residence permits of one year, which, according to our rapporteur's statement, which I agree with, provide a lot of bureaucracy: does the rapporteur not agree that if we are to be able to repatriate asylum seekers or reject asylum seekers or those whose case has been reopened and who have been granted refugee status, it requires an agreement with a stable government where there is law and order and legal certainty? Thinks sir. Troels Ravn really that it can come about in 1 year? And does he really think that an agreement can be reached with a country within a year? It's completely out in the hemp.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152024	But the bill here, L 72, we are giving the possibility of a 1-year temporary residence permit. And that is precisely why, after 1 year, we can assess whether the situation in the country of origin has changed in such a way that we can go home. The aim is to be able to go home when conditions exist. This is not an expression of power arrogance. Of course, we read the consultation answers, and we also carefully assess whether we are going to be in conflict with conventions in this area, for example. We could never dream of putting forward a legislative proposal where we come into conflict with conventions. The fact is that, in relation to the Left, we must of course be able to discuss these things, but I think it is embarrassing that we are trying to get politically involved in a serious situation. The truth is that the Left has not come up with a single proposal for a changed asylum policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152119	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to point out that there are still five speakers. I'm just saying, so you know. The next speaker is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152131	Thank you. My question is about how extensive this proposal really is and whether the Social Democratic Party agrees with the interpretation of the scope of this proposal by the Radical Left, that is, the government partner. In other words, the radical rapporteur has said that: the government has taken the measures that we believe can limit the influx a little bit. At least for a little while, so the municipalities can get some air. We have done this by saying that for some of these refugees, they cannot bring their families here in the first year. It is very possible that the families will come later, but then the municipalities have just got some air so that they can handle the situation. Is this a characteristic which the Social Democratic Party too can endorse?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152216	I say that the main purpose of the draft law here is that we can deal quickly, effectively and properly with the people who come here from a serious situation of war and horror. We can't know exactly what the impact of this bill will be. You have to be honest and say that. But it is our best belief that it will, of course, have an effect. It is also our best belief that with the bill here we can take the top of the list. We have some figures that say that 20 000 asylum seekers may be present during 2014. Probably about 6,000, if that figure lasts, would have to get out into the municipalities and have a temporary stay, and this puts the municipalities in a situation where, of course, we on the part of the government must support that we can solve the tasks properly. And that is what we are doing with the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152313	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152315	It is a bit funny if the Radicals can really see through what this is all about, while the Social Democrats cannot. This may, of course, be due to the fact that the Social Democratic Party is not really going to tell the people what it is actually like with this proposal and how little it means. This then means that, if so, if that is the figure mentioned here, there are 6,000 people who then wait 10 months to seek family reunification. Then I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur once again whether he agrees with the Radical Left when the Radical Left thinks that: 'Most likely these people will get their families here unless there is peace in Syria within a year, and that must be a very great dreamer to believe that this is happening, that is to say, that the families will most likely come here... So it's not to keep Syrian families from coming to Denmark that we've made these changes to the law, it's only for the municipalities to catch up and keep up with the very marked increase in the number of refugees we've seen over the summer. Does the Social Democrat rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152409	We have nothing to hide. And we are now happy to enter into a debate, a dialogue on these issues, where everything has to be presented. But we can't know exactly what this bill is going to mean. With the legislative proposal, we can do what we should expect from a government: that we take responsibility, that we resolve a situation that is difficult, properly. Then we can actually argue that it is sensible to introduce a temporary residence permit. The conditions in Syria, for example, can hopefully change so that people can go home to parts of the country, and that is what the bill here also takes stock of, namely that conditions can change relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152500	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152503	It may be that I am wrong, but as I have seen the situation, this bill has emerged because incredibly many Danes are concerned about the very, very large influx that is happening at the moment. The Prime Minister is so out to say that there are now tightenings; now there are asylum restrictions. Then we are told by the Radicals that there are no restrictions at all. So I would like to ask: is it not really the Radicals who are right, and is it not the Social Democrats who are trying to hide with some sort of fig leaf that they are basically not going to do anything about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152559	Many are concerned, says the rapporteur, and that is true. The government is also concerned. It is therefore a worrying situation that we are living in a world where large parts of the world are on fire and many millions of people, probably over 50 million people, are on the run. After all, we human beings should recognize and respect that as a serious situation. That is why the rapporteur should also be concerned that the government is lifting this responsibility. We're worried too. We're gonna lift this responsibility, we're gonna take responsibility. Of course, Denmark must also help in the neighbourhoods, and we must also help those people who are bound to come up through Europe and knock on our door. That is what we are doing with the proposal here. We do not come instead with fantastic proposals to set up camps in Kenya or other exotic places. In a proper way, we take care of the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152703	Sir. Christian Langballe for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152705	Thank you. In other words, we have made some excellent proposals, including here today. That proposal could, of course, be accepted by the government as its own and voted in favour, because that would really be something that was going on. But what I am asking is actually something that the rapporteur has not answered clearly at any time, and that is: who is right in interpreting what this law is going to mean? Is it the Prime Minister who says that we have a tightening and that, as the Minister of Justice has also said, there really has been a tightening in the area of asylum, or is it the Radicals who say that this is really no tightening?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152745	What is the government's job with the bill here is to address the challenges we face with an increasing number of refugees coming to Denmark. That's what's interesting. We are convinced that the proposal here will have an effect, so that there will be no more refugees in the municipalities who need to be integrated than you can manage. At the same time, we are once again living up to international conventions. We take on a responsibility, we live up to human responsibilities. The rapporteur should be concerned about this and not so much about whether the statements of one party or another conflict with those of others. It's really small childish.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152839	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152844	Thank you. According to the comments to the draft law, in future the refugees must be able to be deprived of their residence permit if the situation in the country of origin has improved, even if the situation is still serious and has to be described as fragile and unpredictable. ▪ I would like to hear more specifically what this is about for some matters. So, what do the Socialists want to send refugees home to? Could it be to a country where there's still war? Could it be a country that is still partly occupied by the Islamic State organisation or other terrorist movements? Can the infrastructure be completely destroyed? Well, what exactly is the lower criteria? What does it mean in practice when there are conditions that are fragile and unpredictable?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120152951	We must assume responsibility on the basis of the criteria that I have mentioned up to several times. This also means, of course, that we do not send people home to war and horror and conflict. That is also why we have the Refugee Board, which bypasses the political level of these matters. It is clear that we must respect the conventions that apply internationally and, at the same time, be aware of our responsibilities. We could never dream of sending people home to areas where there is war and strife once they have come here and been given the right of residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153042	Mrs Pernille Skipper for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153045	No, but the Socialists can apparently dream of sending refugees back to situations that are still serious and must be described as fragile and unpredictable. That's kind of what I was asking about. What does serious and fragile and unforeseen circumstances really mean in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153116	It may be that there are parts of the country where there is peace and quiet and where the conditions are of a nature so that you can send home. That is also why the draft law here makes a distinction between individual persecuted and generally persecuted, including Somalia in memory, where it actually proved relatively fast that it was possible to send home on the basis that there were general conditions that did so. Once again, it is important to hold on to the fact that we have an authority that assesses these things. This is not something we should do on the political side. With this proposal, we will ensure that we address a major challenge and that, with a proper basis for international conventions and so on, we resolve a serious situation. Of course, we will also face up to that responsibility when and if people are to be sent back home.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153222	Thank you. I would like to recommend that a little attention be paid to the time. There are still three who are waiting for short remarks, and the next question is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153235	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for saying quite clearly that we do not know what the bill will mean. That was the point I made on behalf of the Left that, of course, it was okay, we can't know exactly, but some insight into what a bill is going to mean, who gets what status, when we can send someone back, we will have to have. So I really regard the speech as a recognition of it, and I would like to commend it to the President-in-Office of the Council. Troels Ravn for. I would like to follow up on some of the other issues we have had, among others. the question by Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech, who mentions that there are some things in this proposal that have not been worked through. If you read the proposal and come up with page 19, you will see in the financial consequences that it is written that any additional expenditure on the Refugee Board in 2015 will be handled in addition to the agreed appropriations in the budget law for 2015 when they are found. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that this is a very, very unusual wording in a draft law which usually deals with the economic consequences? Can the rapporteur confirm the very unusual wording?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153347	The bill here has been worked through and, as I have said a number of times, we are dealing with a difficult situation here with the bill. Money has also been set aside, most recently also in connection with the Finance Act, where two and a half billion have been set aside. kr., and where, for example, a large three-digit million amount has also been allocated to the municipalities, so that you can solve the task. That's kind of what's important in this. This is again an example of how thoroughly the bill is worked out. There is nothing awkward about the fact that we cannot accurately predict or state exactly to what extent this bill will have an effect and how many, but we believe that if we reach a figure and that can be difficult, I would say that in about 20,000 asylum seekers, around 6,000 will come out in the municipalities. And that's why we need to be at the forefront so we can solve the tasks out there securely.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153456	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153459	I had actually understood that the government also put forward this proposal to do something about the influx to Denmark, but I have to understand that this is all about making it easier for municipalities to deal with the reception and also the reception of family members. The rapporteur can correct me there if I have misunderstood. But I would like to say that, of course, I have only been sitting in the Folketing for seven years, but it is very unusual that we have not taken a position on the economic consequences and that we will deal with them as they arise. This is very unusual, and it clearly illustrates that this is an unfinished legislative proposal which we do not know what the consequences are of. The rapporteur must certainly be able to say and confirm that we do not know what the economic consequences of the legislative proposal are, because it is in black and white on page 19.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153545	The fact that we will deal with the challenges as they arise, including in economic terms, is surely also an expression of responsibility. It is also a responsibility that we have found the necessary means in the context of the Finance Act and also relieve the municipalities of the financial burden of solving this task. Perhaps that is the most important basis for us to be able to do the job properly. So for the influx. We all hope for that, I am sure that the rapporteur from the Left will be able to wake up tomorrow to a new and better world without war and strife. We can't say anything about that. Of course, we also hope with the bill here to be able to take the top of the influx. We don't know. Nor in the context of what it means that this autumn the Mediterranean is harder to pass, that some border crossings are closed and so on. etc. It would be irresponsible not to recognise that there are a number of factors and elements in this which we cannot know in advance about, but we can say quite precisely that with Bill No. L 72 the government addresses the challenges that are, in a proper way, both in relation to the humanity and to international conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153703	The next speaker is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153706	Yes, I get a little confused when I hear the rapporteur's speech from the platform. Is it to be understood that the rapporteur, like the Radicals, believes that this bill is not a real tightening up? The rapporteur also says that it is a question of giving the municipalities some air. Then I would like to hear how the rapporteur will ensure that the municipalities can deal with this asylum-seekers' pressure. Is it to be understood that the government will simply give more funds to the municipalities to deal with the asylum seekers' pressure out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153745	Yes, the answer to the last question is clear yes, and I have already mentioned this several times, that is to say that we find additional funds in the context of the Finance Act, because it is so important that the municipalities can do this properly. And the rapporteur's first question has also been addressed and answered: with this proposal we must support and ensure that we have the right asylum policy. That is what it is all about in its simplicity. That is why we should be able to get the bourgeois parties to support the proposal as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153825	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153827	I do not understand what the rapporteur means by the right asylum policy. This is a bit confusing because the Radical Left believes that everyone is entitled to family reunification. Is that also the view of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament? Then it may be that the rapporteur will elaborate on how much money the municipalities get, a little more, because I think there are a lot of mayors waiting for that out there to cope with the asylum-seekers' pressure, and in relation to the lack of housing to ensure that asylum seekers also have a home to live in. So there are several things that need to be resolved. So I look forward to the rapporteur's answer to my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120153915	Well, this is an asylum policy in balance, and that means that we are taking into account the increased influx of refugees who also come to Denmark. There may be up to 20,000, but it is probably only about 6,000 who are granted a residence permit. And with this particular bill, we will then introduce a temporary stay of one year, and we will do so again to ensure that when the conditions in the country of origin are there, you will have to be able to return home again. Everyone doesn't have the right to stay. After all, it is a complete misunderstanding expressed by the rapporteur, and if you go in and read the bill here, you will also see that that is exactly what we are now going in and taking care of. We are introducing a temporary stay of just one year. We have an authority, the Refugee Board, which sovereignly decides who can get asylum and who cannot. It is not on the political side that we decide. Then there are the municipalities, and I have actually replied to that by the rapporteur. In the context of the Finance Act, the municipalities receive a large three-digit amount of EUR 200-300 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154040	There are still two questioners, and the next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154047	Thank you. Some people are saying that timing is everything, and in this respect I would really like to ask the Socialist rapporteur something, and that is: why is the proposal coming right now? Why is it that the government wants to tighten up right now? When I ask that, it is because, when I look at the figures on how many asylum seekers have been granted asylum, I can see that the figures have increased continuously since this government came into force in 2011. That is why one can wonder why it is right now that the government is making that proposal, and I hope the rapporteur will respond to that. So, when you look at the figures, you can see that in 2011, when there was a bourgeois government, 3.810, who applied for asylum, while in 2012, when the new government had arrived, it was 6.196, and in 2013 it was 7.215, and now we expect that this year it might be 15,000 or more seeking asylum. What is interesting to me here is: why does the government want to tighten up now? Why didn't they do it one year ago or two years ago? Because while the government has been sitting, the figure has increased and increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154204	We must recognise that there are now more refugees and asylum seekers than we have seen in the past. We have to go back to the early 1990s in the war in Yugoslavia to experience something of the same, and a responsible government must, of course, be able to handle and act on that basis. And that's what we're doing with L 72. So, of course, there's a timing in this; of course there is. We have a responsible government that takes up the challenges that come up, while also, in general, preventing and making reforms, etc. in order to create a society that will also be well-lived tomorrow. So when the proposal comes right now, it is, of course, because we are seeing an increase in the number of asylum seekers, and we have done so over the summer. Then there has been a small dive here in October, where it was about 1,800. The reason for this is of course one can guess, but we have to deal with the fact that this year we have seen a greater influx of asylum seekers. Let me just say that in 2013 we actually experienced a small fall, just as we saw a relatively large increase in 2010 under the bourgeois government. This has something to do with what the world out there looks like. When there is war and strife, when 52 million people are on the run, it will of course also have a spill-over effect on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154334	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154335	I think the best thing is for the Socialist rapporteur to tell the truth to the Folketing. When Mr. Troels Ravn says that in 2013 there was a fall, I must say I don't know where he gets it from. The number of asylum seekers increased from 6,196 in 2012 to 7,215 in 2013, i.e. in the time when Mr. Troels Ravn's party, the Social Democrats, has been on guard. So what the rapporteur is saying here seems quite foggy. Then the rapporteur says that it is because there is now war. But wasn't there a war in the '00s? Wasn't there war in Afghanistan and Iraq? Why is it that the figures were so much lower when there was another government? Could it be because the government we have now has relaxed the policy on foreigners in 31 areas? Could that be why?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154429	There has not been a comma in asylum policy. We have the asylum policy that applied in 2010, actually under Anders Fogh Rasmussen. And of course, this has to do with timing again. When there is war and conflict around the world, with historic 52 million refugees, some of whom of course also come to Europe, come up to Denmark and knock on our door, we must be able to address such a challenge, and we do so. The numbers are rising and they are falling. It is factual and we have to talk about that afterwards that the figure also increased in 2010 under the bourgeois government, just as there was a slight fall in 2013, and now over the summer we have seen an increase and here in October again a small fall. I would just like to point out to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that we are making a responsible proposal here and not, as a DF, making fantastic proposals to set up camps in Kenya and elsewhere, which, of course, is also rejected there. And maybe it was in that area that it might be okay to use an expression like totally foggy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154543	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154548	The rapporteur says that we have that flood of refugees because of the spilling effect of war. But perhaps it is more because the forthcoming elections have a spill-over effect, and we have this treacherous government which makes this proposal, which one might rather call a cover-up. The truth is that, on the one hand, we have the Socialists, who say that they are tightening up, and, on the other hand, we have the government partner, the Radical Left, who admits more or less openly that this is not a tightening. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur what actually applies. Is it what the Socialists say that applies, or is it what the Radical Left partner says that applies? We are, strictly speaking, a little confused and the rapporteur has tried several times to respond to it, but we have not managed to give a proper answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154651	This bill, L 72, is a tightening up. It supports and ensures that we have the right asylum policy • an asylum policy in balance. Popularism and proposals to set up camps in the neighbourhood, and then to mention Kenya, we leave other parties behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154717	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154719	A tightening up, yes, sir. The rapporteur talks about populism and neighbourhoods. Let's take a country like Saudi Arabia. They have taken 0 refugees from Syria, it is one of the richest countries in the world, it is located in the vicinity, it is an Arab country, it is a Muslim country. At the same time, we have a lot of smugglers who earn a lot of money from transporting young, healthy men up to Denmark. Does the rapporteur consider this to be a healthy system and will the rapporteur continue to have a system that supports traffickers who become richer by the accident of others?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154757	I have to admit that it is not my job to decide something on behalf of Saudi Arabia or other exotic places. I am proud and satisfied that the government has proposed no. L 72, which supports and ensures that we have an asylum policy that is the right one for Denmark in the situation. When we get asylum seekers here to Denmark, we have a system that determines whether they can stay, and with the bill here we introduce temporary residence permits in 1 year. It also means that in the municipalities, where the task has to be done, you have proper opportunities. We support this above the Finance Act with an additional grant: Proper opportunities to create a life for these people who are fleeing from war, conflicts and horrors.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154902	I have another question on the list of speakers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154908	After all, there are quite a few organisations that have criticised this bill and said that it is not in accordance with the children's convention. I am actually very concerned about children, which is why I have to ask the rapporteur because the government has reacted by putting in a section on the children's convention whether it changes anything about the bill. In other words, is there a difference between the legal situation before and after the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120154945	Well, the government has been working on the bill here, so that it also escapes with international conventions and also with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course, we have noticed that there are critical voices, but we stress that the draft law here is in line with international conventions, the children's convention, human rights, etc. Anything else would be completely unthinkable for a radical-socialist government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155016	The questioner for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155019	I understand that there is no difference between the legislative proposal before and after, just the fact that a few words have been written about the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But then what I don't quite understand is why you don't just drop family reunions or say you have to be able to reunite your family after five years? If you think there is some kind of claim to family reunification, why stop at 1 year? Why not five years? That's what I can't really understand. How, then, can it be in accordance with the conventions that we set a limit of one year? Then you might as well put it up higher or anywhere else. So, to me, something is going to come under here, and there is something that tells me that in those hearings you may be right that in this proposal there are problems in relation to the conventions with.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155113	There is, of course, a reason why a section has been included in the work on the legislative proposal here, and that is, of course, in order to equip it to comply with the conventions. And the temporary stay of one year is also to ensure that we are in balance and that it is reasonable to distinguish between individually persecuted refugees and generally persecuted refugees and for the latter group to introduce a temporary stay of one year, where after one year we can then assess the situation. If it's possible to go home, you have to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155155	Then I got another question. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155201	I have been following the debate and I think the rapporteur is somewhat uncertain about the whole situation. I would like to go a little further into the basics, given that the rapporteur keeps saying: we will be assessing in one year's time and we will see if those concerned can go home. Is the rapporteur aware of the number of people who have returned home over time? Because what we are constantly hearing about is integration, integration, integration. Most recently, the Minister for Social Affairs has said that we were just going here, and then we had to integrate from day one. That is what has been in force for a number of years, when the basic thing should, of course, be that if there is any possibility at all, you go home. Now I have heard sometimes that the rapporteur has said: then you go home. But that's not gonna happen. What is it that the rapporteur expects to happen so that people could suddenly start to go home? I think it would be nice, but I think it would be best if we could follow the proposals of the Danish People's Party and set up camps in the neighbourhood. I do not understand that the rapporteur is so condescending to that idea. But if, according to the rapporteur, they do not want to be involved, please send people home at the same time. There are areas that you can send people home to, but you just don't do that today. What would change if you suddenly started doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155315	It is certainly not my business to be condescending, but it is perhaps more such a thought in relation to the very vicinity, because then Kenya is mentioned as a proximity to Syria, as the Danish People's Party has done. Well, I know Kenya isn't in the vicinity of Syria. What is basically important in this is that we also assume a responsibility in Denmark to support in the neighbourhood, while also taking proper care of the asylum seekers who come to Denmark, where we have an independent board, the Refugee Board, which decides whether or not to obtain a residence permit. Similarly, after 1 year, we are assessing whether there is any possibility of going home, which in the best of all worlds, if possible, was the best solution. That is what we want to ensure with the proposal here one can do if the conditions are so. So let me say about integration that it is of course important that we have proper integration courses for these people while they are here that you should not just sit in an asylum centre, but that you have the opportunity to use the resources that you now have. I also think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party agrees with me on this. What then is the matter here is that the government has a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities about whether we can make some flexible solutions also in this situation, which is good solutions in the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155447	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155449	Now we are talking a lot about Syrians, but there is a very, very big problem with regard to the whole immigration policy, and basically the whole system should be changed, because we have a miserable system. We should redo the whole system, but I don't think that's the government's intention. What the government wants now is to come up with one or a minimal solution, because within x number of months there is a parliamentary election on the way, and then you try to do this. I think it is being eroded to the very highest degree. Let us wait until the radical rapporteur comes to the floor and I think we will know what this is really about. But what is just with Kenya, which has just been mentioned, is that we have mentioned it, for example, in relation to Somalia. Whatever the case, Kenya is a better area for people from that part of the world than Denmark is and Europe at all. So I think it should be taken seriously. Unfortunately, however, there is no government, and I have experienced it year after year, and I have been in this debate since the late 1980s, and certainly not this government that has been or is prepared to send them back home, as the rapporteur has often said, and as has been highlighted in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155559	To propose that Denmark should set up camps for refugees in Kenya and mention it as a close area to Syria must be at the expense of the Danish People's Party itself. What is important to me and to the government is that we both provide a great deal of help in the neighbourhood, as we do it has been intensified over time and we do it properly with regard to and respect for international conventions, with respect for people on the run. But we are also realists, pragmatists; we are also aware that in Denmark we cannot accept a large number of refugees, but will have to put a translator as well as we possibly can. That's what we're doing with the bill here, L 72. This is certainly not a minimal solution, as the rapporteur claims. This is a good, well worked-out proposal, which therefore takes account of the current serious situation we are in, and let me emphasise once again that it is a fugitive with international conventions, with humanity and also with pragmatism.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155712	Thank you to the rapporteur, for whom there are no further brief comments. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120155729	Thank you. The number of asylum seekers is historically high, as is the number of those granted a residence permit in the area of asylum. There is no doubt that the government bears a great responsibility for development. Together with its supporting parties, the government has relaxed asylum and alien policy, with the result that those parts of immigration that cause the greatest problems have increased since 2011. In the Danish People's Party we have warned the government, but they have not wanted to listen. The government's claim has been that the policy pursued by the Folketing has no influence on the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark. But it is a false claim, a grotesque claim, and with the government's bill that we are dealing with here today, the government acknowledges that it has been wrong all these years, and it is quite a confession case. It is disappointing that so long had to be allowed before even the most obvious was clear to the Red Government. Now the government, like the Danish People's Party, says that the policy pursued by the Folketing and the government actually matters. Yeah, other things would be absurd, too. Why on earth would one then have to run for parliament and be elected to the people, if one has the conviction that what one sits and adopts in here doesn't matter. However, we now agree that the policy pursued here in the Folketing actually has a consequence. So far, so well it took almost 4 years to get there. There remains the disagreement about what to do and how much to do. The government has its proposal, and the Danish People's Party has its proposal. That is what the parties have to decide. I can tell you that the Danish People's Party is very likely to vote in favour of the government's proposal. We have a number of questions which, for the sake of good order, we will have clarified in committee before pressing the buttons. However, it is our belief that the government's proposals are precisely the expression of a government which, irresponsibly and without care for the people it claims to represent, has relaxed and relaxed and which is now trying, in an ill-considered and last desperate act, to show decisiveness before a popular election. It is, in fact, unpleasant to see how the Social Democrats have placed their decision-making powers entirely with the Radical Left, to the great detriment of the country whose interests all elected representatives ought to take pride in taking care of, then at the very end, before the elections are likely to be written out with the adoption of the Finance Act or immediately after the New Year, putting such an inadequate and ill-thought-out bill on the table. It is so little that, given the seriousness of the situation, it is actually rude. That is why we also have our own proposal today, which I would recommend to the honourable Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I think once someone said 'vote', so that both the government's proposal and the Danish People's Party's proposal are adopted. For no one who has dealt with immigration policy and who wants a proper country to pass on to future generations can be in doubt that there is a need for measures involving more than a small minority of foreigners who come to this country. On the whole, a policy on foreigners is needed which restricts the non-western part of immigration. There is simply no room for us to continue with such a massive and violent influx as we are currently seeing. It goes without saying that such immigration, which has meant that in recent years there has been a population increase of 115 000 people, of whom only 15 000 are of Danish origin, should of course be changed; the course must be changed. It goes without saying that if that development continues, the decisive change will be in the nature of the Danish people and in Denmark. And that must be considered whether we are talking about foreign labour, family reunification or, in this case, asylum. Because if you cut right to the bone, it is about pursuing a policy that makes our country connected with a policy that makes us have something in common with our fellow citizens, that we have something in common with the people we meet on the street. It is about preserving Danish culture, about preserving our common traditions, more than it is about the financial burden that large parts of immigration impose on public finances. Our experience tells us that immigration, in particular through the asylum system, is creating a wide range of integration problems. That is why we need more than the government has proposed here. There is a need for a completely new policy on asylum and aliens which, instead of starting from what refugee organisations, Danish Industry or Radicals would like, is based on something that should really be so simple: what benefits does Denmark and what will we really pass on to future generations, to those who come after us, other than some harsh rhetoric and this government's half-hearted attempt to appear as the guarantor of a tight immigration policy? Of course, we want to help people in need, but we want to do it in a different way, and we want to do it abroad, preferably in the neighbourhood, where the vast majority are sitting, that is, those who cannot afford a human smuggler. Those are the words in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160211	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see any short remarks, but I have just come up here, so it may be that I have overlooked something. No, I haven't. So thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as a radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160236	Thank you. Not since the wars in the Balkans has Denmark received as many refugees as we are doing right now. This is the result of the serious conflicts in the world, particularly in Syria. Denmark must take responsibility and help both in its neighbourhood and in its dealings with the asylum seekers who come here. We already do, and we will continue to do so. For the Radical Left, a humane asylum policy is a core value of our party, it has always been, and it is still gone. We are fighting for the rights and conditions of the weakest, and people on the run are some of the world's weakest, and therefore we will continue to fight for these people. That is why it is not every day that the Radical Left stands in this Chamber and recommends a bill that tightens up asylum legislation. But that is what I am doing here today because this proposal is a tightening-up, and nobody should question that. It is therefore no secret that it has not been an easy decision for us to make at all. It is important for me to make it clear that if you come to Denmark and are entitled to asylum, you get asylum. We haven't changed that. And if you subsequently have a family, children and spouse with whom you want to be brought together, most people can do so very quickly, but some of the refugees who come here from Syria will have to wait approx. One year for the family to come. For the future, we are distinguishing between refugees, who are so-called 'convention refugees' and who are individually persecuted, and refugees who are granted asylum on the basis of some general conditions in their country of origin. In fact, until 2011, there was no legal basis for granting asylum to anyone who was not individually persecuted, but this came in 2011 after the so-called Sufi and Elmi judgment was handed down by the European Court of Human Rights. The new case law is that, even if you are not individually persecuted, you can obtain asylum because the general conditions in some areas of the world can be so dangerous as to justify granting asylum, and that is what we are now getting incorporated into Danish law, and that is what we radically think is really good. What we have found difficult in relation to the bill is the one year in which part of these refugees must wait to be reunited with their families. But what has been important to us has been to assure the families affected by this tightening that they can once again be with their family within one year. For either they can be together in their home country, it will then require that there is peace there, or they will be able to be family together and be together in Denmark. The reason we are behind and that we support the bill is that over the summer we have seen that there were extraordinary numbers of asylum seekers coming to Denmark, also proportionally more than to the other European countries, and that very many municipalities could report very much pressure, on new and temporary asylum centres and on more permanent housing for people who have been granted asylum and who are going to start a new life in Denmark. Not every mayor's cry for help made the same impression, but when a person like Mayor Erik Lauritzen in Sønderborg, who has previously taken the lead in talking about the fact that in the global situation too, the municipalities must take responsibility, says that now they can no longer deal with the pressure, yes, so make an impression on me. The Radical Left, as a government party, has a responsibility to ensure that our asylum system does not collapse and that the municipalities do not get off completely when it comes to taking care of and integrating the refugees who are coming. That is why we are behind the proposal. We wish there was peace in Syria and that these people were not in such a difficult situation. We help in the neighbourhood, more than ever before, and we grant asylum to virtually all Syrian refugees who come here. At the same time, in a difficult situation, we take responsibility for ensuring that the Danish municipalities can keep up and that our asylum system does not collapse. Radical Left takes responsibility, even when it is difficult. We therefore recommend that we vote in favour of the draft law and against the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160800	There are four who have asked for brief comments for the time being. First, it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160809	Thank you. In Odense Municipality we receive approx. 144 Syrian refugees as a result of government policy. It costs a total of 62 million. kr. for state and municipality. That's 430,000 kroner. per fugitive. At the same time, we know that the Ministry itself informed us that a refugee in a western - standard refugee camp costs about a few thousand a year. This means that while we go 144 to Denmark, we can feed and ensure the existence of 2 000 refugees. Isn't it far better to help 2,000 in the vicinity than to move 144 mainly young, healthy men to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160919	For the Radical Left, it is not a either or it is a bother. Of course, we must help in the neighbourhoods, as do we. We help many thousands in the neighbourhood, but we do not believe that when a human being comes to Denmark, asks for asylum, is entitled to asylum, that we should then, as the Danish People's Party has previously suggested, take the person they people, and put on a plane and fly back to some camps that we have set up somewhere, somewhere where we thought it was more timely that they could live, instead of in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160957	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120160959	The Radicals are here showing a very cynical and not very neighborly view of human beings. You'd rather bring 144 people up here instead of helping 2,000. Those who then come up here are young, healthy men, and then you leave children, women and the weak back in the neighborhoods, when you could at the same time set up some camps down there according to Western standards. How can the Radical Left defend such an hostile, neighborly attitude towards the 2 000 refugees left down there, mainly women and children?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161038	First of all, we don't bring anybody up here. To the person standing at the door of Denmark knocking, asking for asylum and saying: I am on the run, I am persecuted, where I come from, is there so dangerous that I cannot be there, will you help me? we are happy to do most of the parties here in Parliament yes, we would like to help you, and indeed we would also like to help you get started with a new life here in Denmark. I think that is a proper foreign policy, and I think that is at all neighbor love and humanity as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161124	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161127	Hello, I have to apologize a lot. What I would like to ask the radical rapporteur is whether the Radicals believe that this proposal will lead to a slight influx into Denmark. And is that the purpose of the bill, that is, that there should be fewer asylum seekers in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161209	I find it very difficult to speculate what exactly this bill will mean for the influx to Denmark. I believe that there are very many reasons why, as a refugee and as an asylum seeker, we should come to Denmark. So I won't tell you, I won't guess. The forecasts used by the government for how many people come here in 2014 and 2015 are known by all. The reason why we are proposing this law is because we can see, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that many municipalities feel under pressure. There is an extraordinary influx of asylum seekers and subsequent refugees to Denmark. This situation must be dealt with by the municipalities, and that is what we are doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161314	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161315	Thank you for that answer, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, by the way. It is, of course, where one might sense a divergence between what the Social Democrats say and what the Radical Left says. I think we should figure this out. For that, sir. Troels Ravn said when he answered the same question was that he hoped it took the top of the influx. It has to be said that the Left has not been clarified, but if we were to end up voting in favour of the proposal, it would also be with the argument that we think this could have an impact. It will probably be a very, very small matter, but it will have an impact on the influx and be a solution to that problem. But I have to understand that it does not expect the Radical Left and that it is not the motivation of the Radical Left to say yes to this proposal in the government. This is primarily about the municipalities, as the rapporteur also mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161402	Well, as I said, it's very hard to predict exactly what effect it will have on the influx. What has, of course, also been important to the Radical Left is to find this balance between, on the one hand, not wanting to join in a race to the bottom, in other words making things so poor that the refugees bypass Denmark and apply to Sweden or Germany, or where to go; the race that some parties here in the Folketing have very good suggestions on how we could offer. Radicals do not want to be involved in this race. On the other hand, we have also acknowledged that perhaps the short processing times could be a reason why we saw that the influx to Denmark increased more than it did to the rest of Europe. We don't think that should be an independent argument for applying to Denmark, but we also don't think that we want to join this race to the bottom either. That is why we believe that the draft law in its form is balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161511	Sir. Peter Skaarup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161513	Thank you. I think that there is a very clear divergence between what the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke, has said. Troels Ravn, says in this Chamber, and what Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen says on behalf of the Radicals. It is an honest matter that there are two different opinions in the government, and that is also a feeling that one gets when one, for example. Mrs Borst Hansen is quoted as saying that it seems a tiny bit, that is to say it limits the flow a tiny bit; we cannot get the Socialists to say that at all. What I would like to hear from the Radical Left is why it is right now that we are trying to tighten a tiny bit, because the figures for asylum seekers have increased every year while the government that is sitting now has been sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161611	Well, the reason we're starting to look at this is that something happens here during the summer. In the past, the figures and the increase we saw in Denmark have been following the other European countries on the increase seen in general in Europe. But all of a sudden, during the early summer, we can see that the figures for asylum seekers to Denmark increase proportionally more than they do in the rest of Europe. And that's why we're looking at these numbers, and then they get significantly bigger from month to month. That's why. And we can hear what the municipalities are saying; that is why we stop and say: what can we do in this extraordinary situation? We have then chosen to table this bill in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161656	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161658	Does this mean that we can conclude in such a way that if only the figures for the other countries increase, then it is also okay that the figures for Denmark increase? Is this how we should act in relation to the asylum seekers who come to Denmark? With this logic, we are totally powerless in Denmark in relation to the development that the Danish people must take care of and take care of. For then we will be able to get a great many asylum seekers to Denmark in a situation where we have an open welfare society and where, for good reasons, Danish society is very fine. Is that the logic we have to count on?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161738	In the Radical Left we follow very closely the general picture in Europe. We also believe that, more than we do today, we should find common European solutions to this problem. Because we can see that there are some countries in Europe, including Denmark, that lie and take relatively many refugees in relation to their population. Then there are some countries where the asylum system has collapsed and, finally, there are a number of countries which, compared to the population, take very few. We would like to take a European debate on this: what is it like in Europe to have a system of solidarity?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161821	Sir. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161823	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Danes are infinitely very concerned about the asylum influx that is taking place at the moment and which we have to reckon will continue in 2015 and perhaps also in 2016. It seems that we are back in time, when all the locks were simply opened, and people flocked to the country. What is interesting in this discussion is that it may be a little difficult to see that it is a unified government that is putting forward this bill, because there are widely differing statements, depending on whether it is the Minister of Justice who, among other things, is presenting this bill. must interpret the bill, or our Prime Minister, who says that this is a tightening-up, and then the Radical Left, who is actually trying to tone it down and say that this is not going to mean much. I've been wondering. Can one get a clear message: does the rapporteur agree with the Prime Minister or with his party chairman and with himself, who has been out to say that this is not really a significant tightening?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120161940	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is a tightening-up. And if it is that sir... Christian Langballe is in doubt, so I think he should just ask the person who comes up here and gets asylum and is told that you have to wait a year before you can be with your family again, at least if it is to be in Denmark. That person, I think, is clearly going to say that this is a tightening-up. And that's why we've had trouble with it, that's why the bill is temporary, and that's why we're looking at the bill again in 3 years to see if there's anything in the world situation or in Denmark that's changed that makes us have to change the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162023	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162024	The rapporteur says, and I think that was a rather interesting remark from the Radicals, that you can look at the figures, that it is proportional to many more coming to Denmark. Then my question is: I know the answer, but I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it not because of the numerous relaxations that have taken place since this government came in, in relation to the abolition of start-up aid and in relation to incredibly much else? Is it not the government itself that is mainly responsible for not having a large flow of refugees looking for different places, but that there are so many more who come to Denmark proportionally?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162105	As I have said before, it is extremely difficult to see what exactly determines that asylum seekers come to Denmark. But one of the things that might perhaps be a reason is that we are the country that, as far as I know, has the lowest processing time in Europe. It should not be the only independent argument to come to Denmark, and that is why we are now making this bill, where by introducing this year's waiting time before you can be family-run, we are going to roughly match the processing time that they then have in Sweden. That is why we are introducing it here, because it should not be the sole reason used to apply to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162153	Mrs Pernille Skipper for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162157	Thank you to the rapporteur. It may almost appear as if the Radical Left believes that this bill strengthens the legal security of refugees. The radical chairman, sir. Morten Østergaard said in DR 2's debate back in October: With the government's proposal, if it had been applicable back in 2009, it would have meant that the Iraqis who then sought refuge in Brorson's Church could have been given temporary protection. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen from my own party then asked more questions about this, and she has received the answer, and I quote: the bill does not involve an extension of the circle of foreigners who would be able to obtain asylum in Denmark. I would just like to ask whether the Radical Left stands by the statements made by President Morten Østergaard on television or whether they agree with the Ministry of Justice that it is not the case, that is, that no more people will be able to have protection in the future than there has been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162314	What has happened since 2009 is that in 2011 this Sufi and Elmi judgment has fallen before the European Court of Human Rights. It had not fallen in 2009, and therefore Mr. Morten Østergaard the picture to say that in 2009 there was not this legal framework to provide this protection that we are now introducing. In fact, it does not come until the 2011 judgment. That's why these so-called special laws have been drawn up in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162347	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162348	Well, then, we agree that it is not the bill we are dealing with firsthand today that opens the door to more people who have fled to enjoy protection. We're kind of on the same page or what? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162425	With the bill that we are presenting and proposing for the Danish Parliament to adopt, we are introducing the legal basis based on the 2011 European Court of Human Rights ruling. We have followed this in practice in the past, and the Refugee Board has followed this practice, but today we are introducing the legal basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162450	Sir. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162455	Thank you. I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur agrees with both the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party and, as I understand it, also agrees with the Minister for Justice and others that basically the way in which the asylum system is designed is inappropriate, because it helps to support criminal backers earning a lot of money to smuggle people to Europe and to Denmark, some of which are thrown into falling boats, etc. hoping to get here. So does the radical rapporteur agree that we basically have an asylum system which Denmark helps to support, which other European countries help to support, and which is actually a million-dollar industry for criminal backers who exploit people who are exposed to different things? If the rapporteur agrees, what should we do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162544	The Radical Left would like us to have a closer European asylum system and closer cooperation in Europe. That is not exactly what the Danish People's Party is in favour of. But it could perhaps make it possible for us, by uniting in Europe, to become even better at getting hold of these smugglers, to ensure that there is a more united distribution in Europe. That is the path the Radical Left would like to take. This is not necessarily the path that the government or the other parliament chooses to take, but that is the path that the Radical Left would like us to go along.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162627	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162628	However, I do not quite see how this solves the problem, and I also think that the rapporteur has yet to answer the first part of my question. Does the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, agree that basically we have an asylum system that has been set up in a very strange way, because it supports precisely that criminals can make money from smuggling people to Europe and to Denmark? Does the radical rapporteur agree with that? If the radical rapporteur agrees, there is no point in saying that there should only be a distribution key in the European Union, because then there is still an incentive for them to come up here. So I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur agrees with the premise on my question that the asylum system is basically designed in an unhealthy way, not helping those in greatest need, for those in greatest need cannot afford to pay a smuggler to come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162713	No, sir, I don't agree with that. Martin Henriksen in. Basically, I believe that the system we have is a very good system, because if a person comes here and is entitled to asylum, he will be granted asylum. In addition, Denmark receives 500 quota refugees every year, and these are people who have not been able to come up here themselves but who are in camps around the world. That is why we have a system which contains both these refugees who are not able to come here themselves, but at the same time also contain the refugees who come here by other means. I would say that it is not the case that all asylum seekers who come to Denmark come here via a smuggler.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162758	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162803	It's the wire that touched the button. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162808	Well, that wasn't a short remark. Then we move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162815	I know, of course, that the radical rapporteur is enormously caught up in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that is why I think it must be a pity for the radical rapporteur to read all the consultation answers that say that this bill is at odds with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I did not get a clear answer from the Socialist rapporteur, so I will also try to ask the radical rapporteur. A section has been added in which the Convention on the Rights of the Child is written in, and I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that it has no bearing on the draft law, that is to say that the legal situation is exactly the same before, as after this paragraph has been introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162857	What became clear to us when we read the hearing answers was that it was apparently reasonably unclear to a number of organisations whether the government was complying with the children's convention with this bill. That is why it has been important for us to use explicitly; I believe almost one and a half more pages to describe that this bill respects the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's a year before you can bring your family here, but there may be situations with some of these families that allow you to be brought together more quickly on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course, the draft law must take this into account, and that is what we spend some time and some more pages describing in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162944	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120162945	So the status is that you expect children not to be brought together with their parents in Denmark. That's 48%. In the family reunions. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur something that I did not get a clear answer to at all from the Socialist rapporteur. Is there anything in the Convention to prevent people from completely abandoning their right to family reunification? Or is there anything in the Convention that prevents you from setting the limit at five years? When I ask you that way, it's because it's a little revealing whether you have some kind of claim to family reunification or if you don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163029-2	I do not know whether there is anything in the Convention to prevent five years from being waited. But I can say that there is an attitude. Whether there should be 5 years of waiting to be brought together with your family has not been a model at all that has been discussed in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163051	Then there is the last brief remark by Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163055	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur still thinks what she said earlier to Radio 24/7, namely that there is a great likelihood that many Syrian refugees coming to Denmark will stay here and therefore not be sent back again.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163115	Well, anyone who follows the media and the news can follow the situation in Syria. I have no better basis for assessing the situation than everyone else. That statement was my personal statement, and I am happy to say so, because in what I see there is nothing to indicate that there will be peace in Syria in the first year. I personally don't think so. I can hope for what I can dream of, but how long it takes before the conflict is over, I can't predict.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163148	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163150	Then all you have to say is that the government is divided. Because when you listen to the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Justice has little doubt that a very, very large proportion of Syrian refugees will eventually be sent back home. But when you hear the Radical Left, the starting point is that the Syrians must stay in Denmark, and that is of course why a very long process of integration is being set in motion immediately. So you just have to say that there is a big, big difference between what the two government parties think, and that is what has come for one day • perhaps not quite, but it has at least been confirmed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163236	All I have to say is that no matter how much the Left and the Danish People's Party try to talk about the fact that the government is divided, it is not. I have not heard the Minister for Justice say that there is peace in Syria within the next year. I have heard the Minister for Justice say that it is very difficult to predict when there will be peace in Syria. Nor have I heard other radicals say that the conflict in Syria will not be over within three years, for example, which will also mean that these people will have to return to Syria in, for example, three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163312	I don't think there's any more. Then I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt as SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163331	There are several million people who have fled the civil war in Syria. The majority have fled to neighbouring countries, while a small part have found their way to Europe, where they then seek asylum. Actually, 99 percent. of the acids are located in the neighborhoods. These are people who experience that their entire basis of life has been pulled away from under them. Many may have lost close family members, and they are in an economic ruin where they have nothing but the clothes they are wearing. In Denmark, we think it should be fundamental that the proportions are in order when we design our immigration and asylum policies. We think that Denmark takes a share of the many millions of people who are fleeing from war and misery, and we also think in the SF that we have a human responsibility to help when such a situation arises. After all, this is the biggest refugee crisis since World War II. Of course, the many wars and crises around us also mean that there will be more asylum seekers than we have received before, and we also know that it presents a lot of practical challenges around the municipalities when it comes to providing roofs over the heads for the many new immigrants. This is a very big challenge, but it is also a challenge that we share with many other countries. And as one of the richest countries in the world, I think we can take that task on board without creating an insurmountable problem. It is clear that the municipalities must follow up integration efforts so that we can rebuild these people rather than break them down. That is also one of the reasons why we have just allocated an extra quarter of a billion to the reception and integration of refugees by the municipalities in the next year's Finance Act. We cannot support the changes and austerity that are being made here today. There are many organisations that say in the hearings that they do not expect peace in Syria over the next many years. We have heard the Foreign Minister say the same thing. I would therefore also like to question what is achieved by introducing a temporary residence permit of one year, other than that it will more often create uncertainty about the lives of refugees. We already have an opportunity for two-year permits. We have an opportunity to withdraw the permits if things change in that country. I think it would be exciting to examine how much we have used it. The Minister of Justice said we haven't used much. So the question is: what makes it interesting to make one-year residence permits? I am also surprised that the government will allow the authorities to send some refugees back to their country of origin on the basis of what is referred to in the draft law as fragile and unpredictable improvements. Because then we risk them fleeing again, and what responsibility does Denmark have if conditions change dramatically right after we send them home? In the SF's optics, we therefore need to be more sure that there are real improvements in the country of origin. Then there is the huge thorn in the eye, and that is the restriction on the possibility of achieving family reunification. We find this extremely problematic, not least because we can see that those who will be left behind in the war zones are children and women. It's the most vulnerable of all. Actually, 48% is. children under 12 years of age. I think we should think about what that means. That means they're left in the camps. There are children here who are increasingly being poisoned by their parents as child brides to protect them from sexual abuse or poverty. That's the life we leave them to. And we also know that women, and perhaps especially lonely women, are tempting a very wretched life in these places. We've seen some of them end up as slaves in the claws of the IS. In fact, I think it is paradoxical that precisely today, when we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the government's gift or response to it is that we are restricting the rights of children. I think that the government is tolerant of the consultation responses which say that the proposal for family reunification is problematic in relation to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It goes without saying that the SF does not think that this is a road we should go down. I am also surprised that the Radical Left will vote on this. We believe that this is an obviously harsh and unreasonable tightening. As far as the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is concerned, it probably also goes without saying that we cannot support it either. It calls for even greater austerity than what the government is doing in the area of family reunification. This means that we must send people to nearby areas. We don't like that very much in the SF. We cannot therefore support the government's proposal or the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163856	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120163912	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I am taking part in today's debate because, unfortunately, our usual rapporteur in this area, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, was unable to participate. That should not prevent anyone from asking questions, because I have done the same. I would like to say, however, that if you are very technical in your questions, it may well be that I have to report a passport. Today, more people than ever since World War II have been displaced by war and oppression. This is one of the findings of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the UNHCR, in its response to this bill we are discussing today. It is also in the hearing answer that we get the information that 86 per cent. of the world's refugees live in developing countries. So it is not because, for that matter, we in Europe or in Denmark take a disproportionate share of the responsibility for helping refugees worldwide on a global scale. Nevertheless, the government has felt so strained by the fact that in the first 10 months of the year almost 6,200 Syrian asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark that the government has put forward this bill on quite substantial tightening of the asylum rules. The 6,200 people are probably the so-called gross figure, of which far from everyone gets their asylum cases dealt with in Denmark. But let's just use that number, and then let's compare it to other numbers. We can compare this with the 224,000 Syrian refugees per year. 1 November was registered in Iraq, the 618,000 in Jordan, the over 1,000 000 Syrian refugees in Turkey or the over 1,100,000 registered in Lebanon. In the case of Lebanon, the figure is more than a quarter of the country's total population. And these are just the official figures from the UNHCR, because they cannot manage to register all refugees in neighbouring countries. The real numbers are something or much higher. The Government's response to this very, very terrible situation internationally is a huge tightening of the asylum rules, and that is what we are discussing today. War refugees who have so far been routinely granted five years' residence permit will in future only be granted one year's residence permit, after which the authorities will have to consider carefully whether they should be allowed to stay in Denmark. And during the first year, war refugees do not have the right to have their spouses and children brought together in Denmark. If they are lucky, the family has gained some security outside Syria, along with millions of other Syrian refugees in the vicinity. If they are unfortunate, the other spouse and children are fighting to survive in a war zone in Syria and are not in danger of surviving the extra waiting time of 1 year that the government has built into this bill. At the same time, the government will facilitate the inclusion of refugee residence permits. In future, unless they have been fortunate enough to be recognised as Convention refugees, they must be able to withdraw their residence permits and be returned to matters which, as the notes state, remain serious and must be described as fragile and unpredictable. And it is not only the Syrian war refugees who may come in the future, who will be affected by the new means of repatriation, because, as the comments on the legislative proposals stress, the Foreigners' Agency and the Refugee Board will continue to send refugees with protection status according to the applicable section 7, paragraph 7. 2, in the Aliens Act home, if the conditions in the home country have just got a little better, although it is still both serious, fragile and unpredictable conditions. In other words, the tightening not only affects Syrians but also a large number of refugees from other countries • people who have come within the last few years and who are well in the process of integration in Denmark. These are people who have decided that their future lies here, and with this law-string they have a much more uncertain life. They must consider from now on and every day in the future whether they and their children are still welcome here in Denmark. Anyone can say that this new precarious status for thousands of refugees is a bomb during integration in Denmark. One can say it very roughly: can it pay to be good at Danish, to take a Danish education, to use energy and energy in spite of a traumatized past, if the Refugee Board is soon sending a home to these serious, fragile and unpredictable conditions? Unfortunately, there are many other unsympathetic details in this bill and time does not allow me to list them all, but of course my conclusion is that the Enhedslisten cannot under any circumstances support this proposal and we call on the government parties to reconsider whether they actually believe that this kind of unsympathetic and unsolidaristarian tightening should be the answer to a current global and terrible refugee situation. In theory we also consider the proposal from the Danish People's Party. I will not use many words to that, but if possible it is even more unsympathetic than that of the government, and we cannot, of course, support that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164535	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164539	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur speech. Surprisingly, we in the Left do not agree with much of the content. However, I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper how the Enhedslisten feels about the fact that for three years the government has been doing asylum and immigration policy together with the Enhedslisten, and the SF also for that matter, where the Enhedslisten has been accepted in a large number of areas and relaxed legislation, as the Enhedslisten has wished, and that we now go a little bit the other way and, of course, use the majority that may prove to be in the Parliamentary Assembly. So, how does Enhedslisten feel about what to say, the change of course that the government has made in this area? And I ask because the Enhedslisten is, after all, a parliamentary basis for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164634	I think I will answer that question in general and say that it is very accurate when Mr. Karsten Lauritzen points out that the Enhedslisten is a parliamentary basis. We do not want to use the word'support party'. This is true, for example. For economic policy too on a large number of issues there is the fact that the government can choose whether to go to the right side of the Assembly Hall or left side of the Assembly Hall. And if sir... Karsten Lauritzen asks me whether it annoys me that the government would rather turn to the right side of the Assembly on such an important issue as how we deal with a global refugee situation, then I would say that yes, it annoys not only me but also the others in the Enhedslisten, and we would like to be able to convince the government of something else. We have tried this on other issues, and also on foreign affairs, and we continue to try very hard to convince them that a humane and solidarity policy of foreigners is actually possible and that the race with the Left to be the harshest and the strictest and to create the most horrible headlines in the newspapers is a race that can lead to little time.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164746	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164748	I would say that the Left says as we do because we have some desires for what we politically want to achieve, and we see some value, economic and integration challenges with so many asylum seekers. We may then disagree on this, but it is not a populist attitude, it is a real concern for Danish society, where Enhedslisten then has a different assessment. I would like to thank Mrs Pernille Skipper for her answer and then I would like to ask her if she would agree that the government is pursuing a zigzag course in relation to that area once you make a lot of relaxations with the SF and Enhedslisten, as they have demanded, and then maybe now create a microstring with some of the bourgeois parties. Is that what Mrs Pernille Skipper would call zigzag politics in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164832	I would like to start by saying that, as such, I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that there are challenges with integration, and that the fact that there are many refugees going to more than usual naturally presents challenges, including in the individual municipality, and we must try to lift them. But the answer is not to say that we do not want to take up our share of responsibility for a terrible global situation. The thing about a zigzag course and other terms is teasing, and I'm gonna leave that up to the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164904	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll as Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120164919	The reason why we are discussing the two proposals, the draft law and the resolution, is, in fact, that we are facing the biggest refugee disaster in the world since the late 1940s and early 1950s. This, of course, affects Europe and Denmark in particular. I think that most of us feel that we want to help the many people who are in the situation that they have to flee the area in which they live. However, when we are in the situation where the number of refugees is the greatest in an incredibly long time, it also requires new thinking. This requires that we have the courage to think about solutions other than those we are used to. On the part of the Liberal Alliance, we have proposed that Denmark should help finance camps in the neighbourhood. What we are really imagining is that, for example, we are going to do something about it. in connection with the conflict in Syria had Danish-funded camps in Turkey where one could have camps of at least as good standard as there is in Denmark and where one could make sure that people get proper help and that one could help many, many more people than we can in Denmark. The truth is that whether we adopt the Danish People's Party's proposal or the government's proposal or do not adopt either of the two proposals, there will still be a lot of people from Syria who do not get the help they need, and so it will be as long as we refuse to think new. Unfortunately, it is totally refused to go into this discussion. There are some who believe that we have agreed to the idea of tent camps in random countries in Africa, and nothing could be further from us. It is about proper help in decent camps in the neighbourhoods. It would also solve problems other than those which the government sees itself able to resolve, among other things. the question of whether you can be with your family as a fugitive. If we help in proper camps in the neighborhoods, you can be with your family. We cannot do that in Denmark, after the proposal we are discussing here. It is also more humane at this point. Other problems can also be solved. As the Minister for Justice himself said, we cannot help everyone, and that causes problems with how many we can physically help in Denmark. It is, of course, also a question worth dealing with. If we help more people in the neighbourhood and thus fewer people in Denmark, it is also easier to integrate them, which we help in this country. There is also the whole question of the journey when you flee. There are, in fact, a number of people, and this is a very serious and very tragic matter that is dying on the road to the promised country in Europe. If you help closer, it's a less dangerous path for people to take. There are fewer people who will die during the journey from the area where you cannot be to the area where you get the help. It will also create a more secure situation and we will also take the money out of the hands of the traffickers. Then I'd like to commend the Minister of Justice. I would like to commend the government for now examining the practice of granting asylum in Denmark. As the Minister for Justice has been quoted as saying on Politiken's netavis today: Something suggests that more people are allowed to get a residence permit here than elsewhere. Yes, there is evidence of that. We asked for this to be taken up two years ago so that we could try to compare with other north-west European countries so that we could see if there was the same practice. At that time it was poured completely down the board, as if it were the most foolish proposal one could make at all, but the Liberal Alliance is glad that the government has now taken it up and is open to finding out whether Denmark has the same practice as other north-west European countries, because there is just as much as two years ago a number of indications that we do not. Then, of course, one can hope that this is a general move, so that in two years' time we can discuss this in order to help in the neighbourhood, which cannot be discussed today, and so it has been worth taking the debate. On the specific proposal submitted by the government, L 72, I would like to say that this is our impression that what it is going to do first and foremost is a problem with how many people have to be integrated into Denmark. If the aim is to help more victims of the Syrian conflict, then it is the wrong proposal to make, and there we think we have more relevant proposals to make, and we urge the government to also deal a little more with how Denmark could help the poor people more. However, in terms of integrating people into Denmark, we must of course recognise that it helps, so that in this way, of course, it is a small patch that can help solve some problems, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is also voting in favour of this proposal. With regard to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, we agree with the idea of the Left that we may be able to draw up a report on the proposal and try to look at what sort of things might be agreed rather than just having a vote on something that will end up in this Chamber anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165534	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165538	Thank you. It may be that I heard wrong, but I think that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll said that the Danish People's Party's proposal will not solve the fundamental problems of people coming to Denmark. No, okay, it wasn't like that. But now that I have taken the floor, I would like to point out what it was I would say if it were that I had heard correctly. What I would then just like to draw attention to, and perhaps it can also promote the process, if it is that it ends with a report. We do not yet know that; it depends on what will appear in such a report. • The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party says, in fact, that it calls on the government to call the political parties for discussions on a long-term and general reform of the Danish asylum system, and that this is something that is so, among other things. This means that the parties are seeking the possibility of setting up centres abroad, i.e. for example. In the neighbourhoods, it is most obvious. So it's just to say that that element is in the way it is, and then I could ask if not Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll believes that if it ends with a report, such an element should also be included in the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165642	I acknowledge that both the government's proposals and the Danish People's Party's proposals try to address the problem with how many can be integrated into Denmark. That's one thing. However, what the rapporteur then argued for seemed to be something else in fact: whether we could help some more of the acids elsewhere. It is just important for us to stress that the proposals with which the Danish People's Party has been in the media, which I think are about some tent camps in Africa or something like that, we do not subscribe to. What we subscribe to is only help in the vicinity. It is alone in the neighbourhood and it is of a proper standard where we can help people in a good way, and we can help far, far more people for the same money. So if that's what you want to do, I think we can figure out that part, but for us it's just important that we don't get to where it's suddenly something other than help in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165743	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165745	Now I think we should be as serious as we can be. I do not believe that the Danish People's Party has ever talked about tent camps. The element about setting up centres in the neighbourhoods or departments of existing refugee camps has the Danish People's Party meant for several years, so that others also think so, we think we are great. The reason why I say that this is the solution to limiting influx is, of course, because if you set up centres in the near area it may also be elsewhere, but let us just take the vicinity as an example.Then you will no longer grant asylum in Denmark. That is not what we want, otherwise there is no point in setting up centres in the neighbourhood. There will then no longer be an incentive to come to Denmark. There will no longer be any smugglers who can sell the story and travel to Denmark, because what they can sell today is the possibility of a residence permit, that thing will no longer be there. But is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll did not agree that if it were the case that a system was set up where those who came to Denmark knew, if they were judged to be entitled to protection according to conventions etc., that it would end up with them being transported to a centre in the vicinity, then there would in fact be no one?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165854	I just think it's important to understand the nuances. As I understand it, the Danish People's Party will help with camps in other countries, for example. in the immediate area, to quote something the rapporteur said earlier. The Liberal Alliance will do so only in the vicinity. That difference is there, and I think we recognise it mutually. In addition, our main purpose is to say that we will still grant asylum to those we believe to be the real refugees, also in Denmark, while those we are talking about, who are not really individually persecuted, but who may come from a war zone like this, can be helped in camps in the neighbourhood. And I'm not quite sure that's exactly what the Danish People's Party means.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165941	Sir. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120165943	Yes, I wasn't really going to say anything, but now the whole discussion got me up. I assume that the rapporteur has followed the discussion, as to whether this is a tightening or not a tightening, and how many war followers are coming and how many individually persecuted people are coming. It has to be said, as it now seems, that the number of those who come will be wary, but will the rapporteur still say that the individual persecuted must be treated according to the same rules that apply today or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170024	No, that is why the eighth point in my speech was about commending the Minister for Justice for now examining how it might be that there is a difference between Denmark and other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170040	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170042	I mean, we have actually proposed that we should, and that is why we think our own proposal is so incredibly excellent temporary residence permits for those who come to this country. Now we are not talking about those we can help in the neighbourhood and what we can do if we set up some camps in the neighbourhood, and I agree with my colleague that, of course, this means that the influx to Denmark could not be nearly as great and could be slowed down at all. But we're talking about the people who come up here. What would be the problem for the rapporteur to say: but we are simply making a temporary residence permit? We could then vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal and say that this is an excellent proposal, a good proposal, and we would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170127-2	It is not certain that we would disagree on that. Nor was that the element I mentioned when I told you why it was that we would not support the proposal. That is also why, like the Left and the Conservatives, I have said that the Liberal Alliance would like to contribute to a report. Then we'll see how the ends can meet. I think there's a lot of sense in that. I think it is very important to understand that our basic position in the area of refugees is that we believe that we should narrow the concept of asylum in relation to today, and that is where we actually believe that the investigation that the Minister of Justice is now setting in motion is a matter of regret that we have not done anything before what I am sure both the questioner and I would have wanted, but now I think it will actually be the basis for something that is really exciting, perhaps not during this parliamentary term, but then in the next one.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170218	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see a conservative rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170236	The Minister of Justice is considering what to actually say here as the end of a long debate. Because it is not because so much new things have come out under the sun. There are some, you might say, established and well-known political differences in this area, and that is, of course, quite fair. That's not surprising either. I think it is important to stick politically to what I believe the draft law here is an expression of, namely, a balance point in an extremely difficult matter. And perhaps that is what best suits the debate on asylum, that is, if we are quite honest and honest about the problem. Because we are facing great challenges. We do so worldwide with historically many people on the run. We in Europe do that in relation to the overall asylum system. And we do that in Denmark. Those who sometimes pretend in the public debate that there are easy solutions are, I think, wrong. There is no easy solution here. I do not want to stand on the platform and claim that the bill we are debating today solves all the problems in the area of asylum in Denmark so far from that. However, I believe that this is the right way to go because, as I said in my introduction today, we still have to maintain in my view that just as essential it is to provide people on the run with the protection to which they are entitled both human and international, it is of course just as important to pursue an asylum policy that we can make work in Danish society both in the short and long term. There has been no unexpected discussion today about the international conventions and whether the bill is within them. I would like to make it very, very clear that we would not make a legislative proposal that the Ministry of Justice considered is not within the scope of international conventions. Another issue that has arisen again in the debate is whether we can guarantee that there will be peace and stability in Syria in a year's time when we are now proposing temporary residence permits. The answer to that is, of course, that it is quite obvious that no one, nor in this Chamber, can say anything about how things develop in the Middle East. But we know from the example of Somalia that deep and serious problems can also change their nature. Of course, what I am hoping for now in the continuation of the committee procedure is to answer some of the very specific questions that have been put by, among others. The Left Party and the fact that we will soon be able to deal with the bill here so that it can work, and that in Denmark as a whole we will stick to what we have traditionally been good at, namely to be both humane and decent in terms of our reception of refugees, but to be just as insistent, pragmatic and reasonable in terms of being able to make our society stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170547	There are three brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170551	Thank you. The Minister said that there has actually been nothing new in the debate. I don't know if I fully agree with that. Because I think that if there has been anything new in the debate, it is of course that several parties, and in here also the government in the form of the Minister of Justice, have been talking about and have said, as I have at least understood and heard, that there are some dilemmas and problems with the current asylum system. I understood that the Minister could well see that it was a problem and is a problem that we have a system which, as such, supports the fact that there are some criminal backers who make a lot of money from smuggling people into Europe. I think that is a new and clear message from the Minister and from the government if it is actually to be understood so clearly. If it is to be understood that this is the attitude of the government, what is the real explanation or excuse for not embarking on the restructuring and reform of the current asylum system? Because, as the Minister says, this is a proposal and one can discuss from here, and certainly to the apocalypse, how long is the scope of it in terms of time, but what is the excuse for not discussing whether or not we should have a completely new asylum system?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170659	I think it is to draw it too far to say that the Danish asylum system and our Danish asylum rules support the form of trafficking in human beings and organised traffic that is in this area. I think that we need to take the order the other way around and, on the other hand, there are both skinless honest and relatively sober as regards the mechanisms at stake. Because there are unscrupulous cynical backers who are taking advantage of a humanitarian disaster in the Middle East. A great deal of money is being made by transporting asylum seekers, and we can see it right now around the Mediterranean, where the tools of traffickers are becoming increasingly brutal. Dwindling little dinghys are being sent out on many hours of sailing, overcrowded and with far too many asylum seekers who try their luck. And the entire infrastructure and market mechanism behind the transport of asylum seekers are tough, and it is cynical. But it is dragging it too far to say that it is the Danish rules that support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170806	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170807	The Danish rules are part of that, and that cannot be avoided at all. In other words, there is a reason why there is such a great influx to Europe. I believe that last year China received seven Syrian refugees. So there is probably also a reason why the influx is not so marked. Saudi Arabia received zero last year, even though it is said that countries in the neighbourhood receive many. But it is just to say that there is a reason why there is such a massive influx to Europe. It's because it's easier to get asylum compared to other places, and it's easier to be here illegally compared to other places. It gives some other benefits to be illegal here than it does anywhere else in the world. That's the way it is. After all, the Danish asylum system and the asylum systems of other European countries are helping to support this, because there is precisely the product that the traffickers sell and there is the possibility of a residence permit. As long as the goods are there, there will also be some who want to sell it and make money from it. But I understand that I've misunderstood the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170901	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170903	Let's just take that discussion up front. I mean, I mean so absolutely and without reservation and without shaking hands, that we must of course maintain the traditions we have in Europe to help refugees. The fact that China has a more dubious history, including in this area, is a completely different matter, and I would not want them to be the Chinese conditions in the refugee area to decide how Denmark is going to work here. There is no doubt that there is heavy traffic downstairs in the area of asylum, and we must do everything we can to prevent this, including in a European context, and then, of course, we must continue to base and develop our own sensible Danish asylum policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170946	The next Member who has access to brief remarks is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120170953	I would like to ask the Minister about this temporary nature. For the Minister himself said that we do not know when there will be peace in Syria, and I would like to ask the Minister what will be the position of the Minister and the Ministry on when the earliest will be. Because I find it difficult to find experts who believe that within the next five-year horizon it will be possible for there to be peace in Syria and that some can be sent back. I mean, you have to have an assessment of when there is peace in Syria. At the same time as that and I think it was Mrs. Birthe Rønn Hornbech who asked about the previous case, you have to have a return agreement and things like that. So, isn't the truth, Minister of Justice, that it is extremely doubtful whether it is actually possible to send people here on this new temporary basis home and that we risk them being able to sit here for a very, very many years? Is there not the risk, even with the proposal put forward here by the government, that it will not be temporary but that it will end up becoming something permanent?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171054	That is certainly not the intention of the draft law. As far as the situation in Syria is concerned, we have referred to it on several occasions: there is no one who can reasonably foresee what is going to happen, either in Syria or for that matter in Iraq, where we have some of the same issues with regard to the Islamic State. We must hope for the too many people who have fled, for the far too many people who have lost their lives or been disabled, for the far too many people who live in fear, both for themselves and for their loved ones, that we will soon have a more stable development in the Middle East. I also hope that the international coalition, of which Denmark is also an active part, will succeed in its efforts to curb the bloodshed caused by the Islamic State. But to begin politically here on a certain fine Thursday afternoon in the Assembly to assess when there is a more peaceful situation in Syria, I do not think one should; I do not think anyone can seriously offer a sufficient and proper offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171159	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, second brief remark, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171201	Thank you. Well, I asked because the Minister himself attaches great importance to honesty and says that we must be honest, and I think most people must honestly admit that it is doubtful whether there is peace in Syria in the near future. And when it comes to those who come up here on the 1-year temporary basis, it has to be said that the vast majority of people will probably end up with an extension after that year has passed and that they will be here for another two years and perhaps longer, and I just think that the government should say that honestly; otherwise, it should be said that the situation in Syria is judged differently from all sorts of others. So it's a call for honesty. Then I would just like to end by asking the Minister for Justice if she can explain to me why this stay, when it is temporary, counts for the years that are needed to allow you to have a permanent stay. So, how can it be that, what can be said, it helps in relation to the earning time that has to be spent from temporary to permanent residence permits? Why don't you just keep the group on the temporary if that's what the government wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171256	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171258	I think it is important to say in relation to the concept of temporary nature that, although this bill comes in the wake of an exceptionally large approach by Syrian refugees in particular over the summer period, it is, of course, a set of rules which, when we hope to have it passed, and I hope that the Left will end up voting in favour of the bill, will apply to all refugees who come here, in other words everyone understood in that way that they are individually persecuted, there is an existing set of rules, etc. It is also important for me to say that if the situation is not improved in the country of origin and there are the same conditions, then there is a possibility of extending the residence basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171337	Thank you. The next colleague with access to short remarks is Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171341	It is a rather strange situation to say that this is the case with refugees coming from a country, because when are you a refugee from a country? If you are a fugitive from one area of the country, you are fleeing from all over the country, even if you could just go to the other end of the country where there is such relative peace and quiet. But you definitely have to travel very far away. It's kind of weird. But what is also in it is that this is now a relatively small proposal... apparently it has a small effect like this immediately... but how many do the Minister really think it will include when it is a small part of the group that comes here to which this proposal is going to apply? I cannot see how large a group of refugees are coming here to which this is going to apply, but if you read the bill, it seems as if it is only a small part. Perhaps we could also have said in favour of these refugees coming from Syria: well, let us set up a camp in the south of Syria where there is less unrest; up to the border with Jordan in the south there is not so much unrest. Maybe you could set up a camp there. But it seems to have a small effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171459	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171500	I am, in fact, very impressed by the very detailed knowledge that is in relation to the borders against Jordan and the possibility of setting up camps there. So, I would say that in the area of asylum, we can well imagine a situation in which there are refugees who have a need for protection which could be accommodated within the country's borders. So this is not a new proposal. And whether that situation can arise in Syria can certainly not be rejected. As far as the proportion of Syrians covered by the proposal is concerned, we have had the opportunity to discuss it several times today, both in an earlier and also here in the Parliamentary Assembly. As things stand now and in relation to the cases that have been settled, the majority of Syrians seeking asylum here will be considered individually persecuted. However, it is also important to say that the composition of refugee groups can change over time, and therefore it is not possible to say in advance with this bill how many people it will include. At present, however, the majority will be covered by the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171607	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, second brief remark. There's 30 seconds here in the second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171611	Thank you. But that's again that I don't think we'll get any clear answer. We'll probably never get that either. But the individual persecution which the Minister has just mentioned is a broad concept. When are you individually persecuted? You are not individually persecuted because you are going to serve your military service and then refuse to do so. This has nothing to do with persecution. Then you could also talk about being individually persecuted if you have a tax debt and the tax administration is after you. They probably don't know that much about down in Syria. It's just a strange consequence to draw. The Minister is known for making major reforms, but right here the Minister may not want to make such a big reform, because it is just such a small group that we need to change legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171653	I don't know what it was about the IRS and debt recovery. In other words, it is the case that there are perfectly clear rules as to when the protection and status of the Convention will be covered. And yes, it may well be that because you are a conscientious objector, you are individually persecuted if the fact that you do not want to join the military can have a high cost to the individual. I would like to say that this is not a new issue, whether it be people who are deserting from the military or people who refuse. This is an old issue which is very, very well known within the entire asylum and refugee system.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171735	Thank you. The next colleague who has asked for access to short remarks is Mr. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. There's a minute here in the first place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171741	Well, I think it applies to the Minister of Justice, as it applies to you here, that we are completely honest, in terms of what we mean. I certainly hope that this is the way it is. And I would like to say quite frankly: yes, I am extremely concerned that the influx of asylum which is taking place continues and continues from conflict areas where conflicts persist and continue. I certainly take the situation in Syria very seriously, and I believe that we should help in the neighbourhood, but if there is something I take seriously, it is also the best interests of the Danes and the cohesion of Denmark. In other words, we have seen that an asylum stream has created parallel societies at home to a degree that I find unpleasant to think about, even in the future. That is why it is clear that what we are discussing now is not just the conflict in Syria. It is certainly Denmark now, and what it will look like in the future. These conflicts can take 10, 20, 30 and 40 years. So that's my honest concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171847-2	However, I am not hiding that some of what is also my driving force, both as the country's Minister of Justice and as a social democrat, is that we have a balance in our refugee and immigration policy so that we can deal with the tasks we face. And although much is successful in the area of integration, there is also much that does not work well. And I know that in the years I have served as Minister for Employment. There are still a lot of challenges with regard to integration, and that is why we should not be naive when it comes to the refugee and immigration debate. I think it should still be maintained that the vast majority of foreigners living in Denmark would like to contribute to Danish society; they comply with rules and legislation, they want the best for themselves, for Denmark and for their children and everything that is inside it. But that does not change the fact that there are some serious integrational challenges. That is why, of course, we need to pursue an asylum policy which, on the one hand, helps people in need and, on the other hand, is both pragmatic and realistic in terms of what tasks we can handle. And when we come to the reality, I would say that a proposal to send all asylum seekers to Kenya is relatively far away from my general understanding of that word.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171956	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, second brief remark. Here you go, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120171959	We can discuss this proposal that we have put forward, and we can then spend some time on it. I do not think it would be quite wrong to think that in Kenya there are, in fact, large, large refugee camps, which are being paid to operate and which are being driven by the United Nations in Kenya. There are some camps already run down there, and they are doing a good job, by the way. What I am just saying is: our concern and my great concern is that much more needs to be cleared up in the asylum legislation if we are to solve this problem, because I do not think it is going to mean much. I think the Radicals are right that this is a very, very small thing that is not going to mean much.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120172045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120172047	For me, when we face crucial challenges as a country, it is crucial that we try to solve them. And let's just turn that Kenya discussion around. So, excuse me, and with all due respect: with regard to standing in Copenhagen and suggesting that both the commitments and challenges of northern Europe in the area of refugees should be solved by an East African country, can the questioner himself not hear what the questioner is saying? So it was not long before the Kenyan authorities returned and said: a very, very exciting thought, but we are actually undertaking a very, very large refugee task in advance. That is why it is just easy to say that we have to change everything and propose solutions that I was going to say at best are a little comical, at worst very, very problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120172136	Thank you. No one else has asked for access to short remarks. Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120172146	I am sure that when the previous bourgeois government asked Kenya if they did not want to accept some pirates that Danish ships had captured, their approach was that they did not think it was a very good idea, but sneak up on me if it did not end up being that way anyway. So where there is will, there is way, and this is a question of will and not really much else. When we deal with the proposal we are dealing with here today, we have it in the Danish People's Party that the government's actions are not enough. We ourselves have therefore put forward a proposal that all asylum seekers who are granted asylum should only have a stay for one year, after which the residence permit will automatically expire and a expulsion process will begin. If the residence permit is to be extended further, it is for the alien to re-search. This must apply to all so-called refugees and not just to the minority proposed by the government. With the proposal that the Danish People's Party proposes, the government is required to call for further negotiations with the aim of restricting refugees' access to family reunification in Denmark. Here the Danish People's Party generally wants to limit access to pick up the family to Denmark. Refugees must be here temporarily, and bringing the family here has the character of a more permanent stay, and therefore this tightening up in relation to the government's bill. Our proposal will also restrict refugees' access to public services, which means, in concrete terms, that full cash benefits and children's cheques should not be available from day one. We believe in the Danish People's Party and that is of course a controversial point of view, but we do believe that people should nevertheless earn the right to take advantage of welfare benefits in Denmark. And if you implement it, Denmark will not appear as attractive as the country of asylum. Finally, the adoption of the resolution will mean that the parties of the Folketing will have to start discussions on a long-term and general reform of the Danish asylum system, and that is not something that is being done here and now, it is something that takes time. But you have to start at some point. We need to set up asylum centres abroad, like for example. Australia does, and very much like in the neighbourhoods, or we have to go in and take responsibility for running a branch in an existing refugee camp in the vicinity, in exchange for the country concerned, for example, committing to accept a number of refugees from Denmark, probably a few hundred refugees. I am well aware of the arguments against all parts of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. I believe that I have heard most of them, but frankly, we simply cannot continue with what we have today, at least not for an infinite period of time. It destroys too much in our society and it weakens the community and cohesion. We see harassment and persecution of Jews and Christians in Denmark. We are increasingly experiencing Danes who have to move from areas where there are many with Muslim backgrounds because they are grossly harassed because they are Danes. Too many people also find that the police do not intervene, that the municipalities do not intervene and that the parliament and government do not intervene in relation to the areas where the Danes have come into the minority. And we cannot be aware of this; we simply need to be able to do better. It has happened that in trying to save as many refugees in Denmark as possible we destroy Denmark, our home, and we put our own in second place, and we cannot be familiar with that. Let us reverse developments and restore confidence among citizens and restore security. There is far too much crime, too many ghettos, too much oppression and too much social control over the current policy. If we are to reverse developments, we need to tighten up. And it will not only benefit Danes, it will also greatly benefit all the foreigners who are here and who do well; who take Denmark to heart; who take the culture to heart and make it their own. All the skilled foreigners who are here will benefit greatly from the Danish People's Party's immigration and integration policy. And if our policy is implemented all the way through, it will also free up resources so that we can help more refugees in the neighbourhood. In fact, the Danish People's Party would like to maintain and expand Denmark's position as a country that helps people in need, but we do want to believe what they want about the Danish People's Party. But we are not helping the most vulnerable refugees with the current asylum system; we are helping those who can afford to pay a smuggler to come to Europe and to Denmark. Those with the greatest needs are left in the neighbourhood; some without their husbands and therefore without the family's breadwinner, because they have embarked on a journey to Europe in the hope of either staying here illegally or obtaining a residence permit with asylum status. It is, after all, the system on which criminals and criminals exploit and profit; it is the exploitation of the system that we support with the current policy. There's gotta be a better way to do it. We believe this in the Danish People's Party, and we therefore hope that there will be a day when a majority in the Danish Parliament will have the courage to reschedule a system which basically helps them with the most resources and which encourages criminals to earn with money to smuggle people. It is an unsympathetic mass industry that we should end with. And we want something different from the existing one. The idea of the entire asylum system has long gone the whistle. It is therefore thought-provoking and frightening that, at a time when there are problems with having enough resources for welfare and care for the elderly, we are spending so much money on receiving so many people here, when for the most part these are those who, compared to the most vulnerable refugees in the neighbourhood, are the most resourceful. So we want to do the right thing for Denmark and the right thing for the most vulnerable refugees in the neighbourhood. That is the objective. Now there is a tightening up on the part of the government, but it is too late and it is too little. It comes only because there is soon a parliamentary election and because political and popular pressure has gradually become so great that something had to happen. But that is not what must be the driving force and must be the reason for changing asylum and immigration policy. After all, there should be more consideration than just having the current government re-elected. There are bigger cases, and in our opinion, this case is about doing the right thing and very much like doing the right thing for as many people as possible, and therefore the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. Of course, we have noted that there is no majority in favour of our proposal. We have also noted that there are a number of bourgeois parties which have indicated that there are elements in the proposal that can be further worked on, and we will of course remind them of this at the earliest opportunity. But frankly, I find it hard to understand that, in the media and in the public debate, when you listen to the discussion there, there is virtually no party that does not want to tighten up the immigration policy, but that when you come here in the Parliament Chamber, it is difficult to push the right buttons. And it's not that hard, because there's only three to choose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120172807	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141120172823	Now there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 21 November 2014, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
