ParlaMint-DK_20141219090000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of the Centre for Civil Involvement and Democracy Development at Christiansborg). Özlem Sara Cekic (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of men/parents to maternity leave). Özlem Sara Cekic (SF) and Jonas Dahl (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 49 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on compulsory care for children as relatives). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 50 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on criminal prosecution for participation in armed conflict with Danish forces abroad). Eva Kjer Hansen (V), Pia Adelsteen (DF), Mette Bock (LA) and Lars Barfoed (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 52 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on information to Parliament on the implementation of EU directives, regulations and administrative regulations). Søren Pind (V) and Karsten Lauritzen (V): Request no. F 16 (Will the Ministers explain the government's view of Danish citizens who, on behalf of the terrorist movement ISIL and similar terrorist movements, participate in the fighting in Iraq and Syria against the international coalition, to which Denmark is contributing militarily, including whether the government believes that changes to the country-dangerous paragraphs are needed, so that Danish citizens participating in the fight against the coalition can be judged for treason?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Culture has presented: Report on the use of paid sources and media responsibilities in publishing false stories, slander and privacy violations. 3). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090131	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090148	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090213	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090243	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090244	We are voting on the final adoption of the bill now. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090323	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Per Clausen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090333	When I take the floor here, it is because this draft law on which we are about to vote marks a clear breach of the policy that the government at least claims it is pursuing in the area of planning and in the field of nature and the environment. It is proposed to implement what is called an experimental scheme in which ten places in the country have to be able to do what is called coastal and natural tourism. It must be possible to build things that it is not legal to build at the beach today, and that is to say, to set up to destroy and degrade the glory values that are today one of the most important things to attract people and provide great experiences in the Danish coastal areas. However, it is only in ten areas and only as an attempt. We have then asked whether there is any guarantee that it will not lead to natural destruction, which cannot be rolled back, that is permanent destruction of nature, and of course there is no guarantee whatsoever of that. This is the one element of this draft law that I would just like to call on you once again to consider whether it is wise and sensible to adopt. The second element of this is the abolition of the possibility of planning low-energy building in local plans. This means removing the possibility for municipalities to decide to ensure that less energy is used in the construction that is being planned than the legislation allows. One might wonder why a government that often talks about how important it is for someone to take the lead when it comes to energy policy and energy saving is now telling the municipalities that they must stop the nonsense of taking the lead; it should not be legal. I have to admit, I don't understand anything at all. Didn't the government argue for this bill? Yes, they have argued that they have made a deal with the right wing. That in itself is an argument for many ills. I understand that. But we have also tried with a factual argument. It is said that this could also be called a simplification. And why is that simplification? Well, it's because you've had one of those people that the Ministry of Finance spends too much money on asking Dansk Industri and Dansk Byggeri if they couldn't come up with any proposals for simplifications in the field of construction. And there they have mentioned it here that some companies find it a little difficult that they may risk that the municipalities have made some extended energy requirements when they are about to build. For then it will be slightly more expensive to build, and it is not always possible to transfer this extra cost on those who then buy or rent into the properties. We have then asked what an extra cost is, and we do not know anything about that, because we have not studied it. We have asked whether this has meant that there is some construction that was planned that has not been built, and no, there are no examples of this. But this is a simplification, it is said. It is a little incomprehensible why this has been made up, unless the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building has been given the task of presenting a precise number of simplifications in his area of ministers, and then it was about taking everything that did no harm. I say the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building, it may also be, it is the Minister for the Environment that I cannot quite see through which one of them lacked a single simplification in order to reach the quota they had been allocated by the Ministry of Finance. But that is certainly the only reasonable explanation. One might ask whether this is a simplification, and it should be remembered that simplification is a very good thing, because when it was introduced here, it was also a simplification. In fact, before that time, the municipalities typically did so, that in connection with the sale of municipal land in urban development areas they had to reclaim the claim, and it was really difficult to find out that, in addition to looking at planning, they had to look at registration. The municipalities can start with that again, and in a few years' time a new government will be able to carry out a simplification which might restore this possibility or create a new ban, so that the municipalities should also not impose such requirements. That's not good to know. In short, this bill is a bill that harms the environment and damages the municipalities' ability to plan. And this is in complete contrast to the fact that yesterday the government, together with Enhedslisten and SF, decided to increase the possibilities of planning so that you can have a versatile housing mix. But in this way we will also get an illustration here for Christmas that when the government makes agreements with the right, things are going really, really bad, and the Social Democratic MPs have to do what they can, so as not to understand what law they have to vote on, whereas everyone can be happy when they make agreements with us, except those who deserve to be angry.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090848	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That does not seem to be the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090854	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 96 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA and KF), against 16 (EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090927	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219090943	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091011	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Torben Hansen as Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091032	It is often said from this platform by various rapporteurs that what you are dealing with right now and here is a historic proposal, and then it is spicy with praiseful words and perhaps just today and perhaps other times with a little overestimation and cheap Christmas wine. But that is not the case with what will be adopted here shortly, L 77, the bill on the Danish Nature Fund, because soon the Danish Nature Fund will become a reality, and it is an historic day both for Denmark and also for nature in Denmark, because the fund that will be voted through here in the Danish Parliament by a very broad majority will work for more nature in Denmark, and it is the result of a visionary and unique collaboration between the state, Villum Fonden and Aage V. Jensen Foundations. The Social Democratic Party is very pleased that the fund makes it possible for everyone to invest in nature, whether you are a private person, an organisation, a community or a municipality. That is why the Social Democrats also hope and believe that more money will come than the 875 million. kr., which is in the starter baggage, which is very, very nice. But we also basically believe that many more Danes become interested and involved in nature conservation and restoration. The fund is also a direct result of the recommendations made by the Nature and Agriculture Commission in April 2013, and the fund will include: also buy and set aside land as nature to protect endangered species and ensure a good aquatic environment. As I said earlier, it is a central and independent objective of the fund to strengthen popular anchoring and support for work on nature recovery and nature conservation. So any minute now, when a broad majority here in the Folketing presses the green buttons, the green buttons are also the symbol that this proposal actually pushes something forward in a green direction and makes it big and makes it great. So it is a huge victory for nature and the environment, and the activities of the fund should not be a substitute for existing activities, but should reinforce and supplement them. So it is a historic day, and we are cheering, and we are delighted that here per. January 1st, the Danish Nature Fund is a reality. So it is truly a historic day. It's a big day. And you can say that without trying to garnish it and season it with cheap wine and sleek Christmas talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091328	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Does anyone else want to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091342	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 107 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 4 (LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091431	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091452	Sir. Orla Hav as Social Democrat rapporteur, not as Social Democrat rapporteur? Sir. Orla Hav as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091508	I took the liberty of taking the floor at the first reading of L 23 and pointed out in this context that there is a risk of destroying a small piece of culture in Denmark, namely horse racing. Today's contribution to the report indicates that there is a willingness to create a framework to ensure that Denmark can again foster a Tarok. It won't give itself. Several ministries will have to go to work in order to ensure that sport is financed in a way that it can influence itself. The organisational framework for sport will have to be changed, the conditions for completing gambling must be radically changed and allow for sport, through its representatives, to actually have an impact on own resources. In short, the broad majority that I expect to manifest behind this report today will need to put on the work clothes in 2015 and that more ministers will also be involved in solving this issue. I look forward to that, but I will also allow myself to blow your necks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091626	Thank you, sir. Orla Hav. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091637	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 110 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091706	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091717	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091741	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091756	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 76 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 1 LA (by mistake)) voted against 36 (V, LA and KF), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091823	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091857	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 70 (S, RV, SF, EL, KF, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 3 DF (by mistake)) voted against 42 (V, DF and LA), abstained from voting 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091931	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219091957	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 111 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092023	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Finn Sørensen as Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092040	It's gone way too quietly. With this bill we are talking about a complete change in the principles of home help, which will mean that in just a few years' time a very large group of weakened elderly people have been left to fend for themselves. It's one of those kinds of laws that looks very nice and innocent, but when you scratch the paint, it's not so pretty. Who can object to offering the elderly a so-called rehabilitation programme where they are trained to cope better with everyday life themselves? Nobody doesn't mind. The vast majority of municipalities do so in advance. But why do we want to legislate on this? Why interfere with municipal autonomy and the municipalities' right to decide for themselves how and when to apply rehabilitation? Because the government and the majority will require the municipalities to send the elderly through such training courses before deciding whether they need home help. It will be the main rule in the future if the legislative proposal is adopted. This means that before the municipality frisks the citizen for home help, the elderly must first show through the training course that the elderly are not able to cope with everyday life themselves. It should be noted that this should not only apply to new applications for practical assistance and personal care. Over the next few years, the municipalities must ensure that they send the almost 150,000 current home help recipients through such training programmes, so that you can see if they also need home help. The Enhedslisten has tabled some amendments which specify that the municipalities must provide home help during the training period, that the citizen cannot be denied help, on the grounds that the citizen does not want to participate in such a course, and that the municipality should not simply be able to turn the aid up and down during the training course without taking a decision on it, so that the citizen may be able to complain about a reduction in the aid. The aim of the amendments has, of course, been to strengthen legal certainty for the weakened citizen, but our amendments have all been voted down by the other parties. Nor have we been able to get the Minister to answer whether the guidelines that are being followed in the City of Copenhagen are illegal or whether they will be illegal if the bill is adopted. These are guidelines that say that people can be deprived of help if the citizen does not want to contribute to the process of rehabilitation. The short thing is that the Minister did not want to clarify the bill, so it comes in line with his own statements that, of course, no one should be forced to be rehabilitated in any way and that it does not make sense to talk about forced rehabilitation. The legislative proposal is, overall, a further erosion of the legal certainty of citizens in this area, where there have been massive cuts over the last 5-6 years. The municipalities are now required to use a new tool to save even more, but the elderly are not equipped with clear rights so that they can defend themselves against it. It is simply unworthy of us to treat older citizens in this way, and it is contrary to the solemn decisions of this Parliament to respect the right of the elderly to self-determination. I am not surprised that the governing parties are putting forward such a bill, because it is a beautiful extension of the vision of the competitive state, but I really am surprised that the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party will be involved in it. The Danish People's Party in particular does not neglect any opportunity to point out how much they value the welfare of the elderly. But why has a cold amendment from the Minister, which does not fundamentally alter the mechanics of the proposal, been tabled instead of supporting the Enhedslisten's amendments? Why has a statement been made by the Minister that this is not a proposal for savings, even though that is precisely what it is? If the municipalities were not as pressured on the economy as they are, one might hope that they would manage it lightly, but the same parties that vote through this bill have at the same time approved a narrow financial framework for the municipalities and adopted a budget law that forces the municipalities to save all as part of an overall economic policy that prioritises tax relief, most and the largest to the well-vended part of the population, rather than welfare. It would really suit the parties behind this bill if they said things straight: yes, we know there will be many more older people in the coming years; we also know that there will be many more care-intensive elderly people in the coming years, but no, we will not spend more money on home help; it must be done within the framework that is today. And it can also be even smaller if V, K and Dansk Folkeparti come to power again. That is why many more older people have to fend for themselves, whether they can or not, because that is what this is all about. Enhedslisten votes against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092550	I would just like to find out whether the two who are on this list would like to make brief comments. Mrs Trine Mach and Mrs Karin Nødgaard, are these brief remarks? Yeah. Mrs Trine Mach for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092606	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur's party is not what I want to do most often, but I find it rather difficult to understand the comment on respect for local self-government when we consider the financial law negotiations last year, when the rapporteur's party wanted to introduce a rule that all elderly people should be guaranteed two baths a week. How does that relate to respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092621	I find it strange to argue that it should be a restriction on municipal autonomy, that citizens should be provided with rights, that there should be minimum rights, that there should be a limit to how poor it can be. That is what our demand for welfare rights was all about. This bill is about something else. It is, after all, a very clear intervention in municipal self-government. Because until now it has been the case that it was up to the municipalities to assess whether they would avail themselves of everyday rehabilitation, to what extent, in what situations and for what the specific purpose should be in the given situation, based on an assessment of the situation of the citizen. But this bill means, once it is adopted, that all municipalities are then required to allow the citizen to undergo a rehabilitation course before deciding whether or not to give the citizen home help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092719	Mrs. Trine Mach.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092721	I do not think the rapporteur really answered the question. I do, of course, share the rapporteur's concern about the economic narrowness of the municipalities, and I think that many of us in here do, and I also agree that we need to keep a close eye on whether, with this amendment of the law, the municipalities actually handle it according to their ambition and wish. However, I would like the rapporteur to comment on something. Is the rapporteur not in favour of the self-determination of the elderly, of empowering people in their own lives, which this is basically about, and was it not something that Enhedslisten really wanted to support? Could we not vote for this bill instead and then help to keep an eye on the fact that things are actually going well in the municipalities? Moreover, what is this about the Ministry's guarantee that this should not mean refusing to provide home help simply because someone has not taken part in a rehabilitation programme in which the rapporteur does not believe? Because we have had this discussion quite thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092815	We are very much in favour of the right of the elderly to self-determination. That is why we have tabled some amendments which would guarantee this right of self-determination in the introduction of this bill. We have actually chosen to play on the bill and say: okay, so let's say to the municipalities that they have to offer the elderly this rehabilitation programme; we just want to make sure that the elderly have some rights to say no to participating in it. That right has not been given to the elderly by the Minister's amendment, no, which has been corrected a small part of what it says, that interrupting the home help course is the reason why it is interrupted, uninteresting in terms of measuring aid. That is the only change that has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092902	Mrs Karin Nødgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092910	Thank you. Well, I didn't have a second in mind that sir... Finn Sørensen wanted to go upstairs and take the floor for this bill. I think it has been a rather awkward process in relation to the Enhedslisten, and it is a pity that Enhedslisten has actually not been more active at the negotiating table. Because we have spent hours on this proposal, and the Danish People's Party has just tried to clarify a lot of things in this. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that rehabilitation as such is positive and that it can increase the quality of life? In any case, the Danish People's Party believes so. Now we've gotten that it's so that whatever a citizen indicates as the reason why you can't go through with this, you'll never be deprived of your home help. Is that not a step in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219092952	I now believe that Mrs Karin Nødgaard is well aware of the history of the negotiations, namely that the Enhedslisten has not had the opportunity to take part in those negotiations. We have simply not been invited to further negotiations after the first meeting. There is also another party that has been in the same situation. And that is, of course, the first condition for exercising influence. Now it's not like we're mad. We have, of course, tried to influence this bill by tabling some amendments and we have participated in the public debate on it. And the only tiny thing that has been changed in this is that if the citizen cannot complete the process, the municipality must make an assessment of whether the citizen should receive home help. It is purely legal and legal in nature the only small change. We have not been able to get an answer to a crucial question: will the guidelines in the City of Copenhagen be legal or illegal when this is adopted? And that is, of course, at the heart of the whole thing, because those guidelines say that if the citizen does not want to contribute to rehabilitation, there is no home help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093056	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093057	Well, that was a bit of a repeat of it, sir. Finn Sørensen said in his rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur did not reply at all to what I asked about rehabilitation as such. It was so that when we set up the Home Aid Commission, which was a proposal from the Danish People's Party in the Danish Parliament, this was one of the things that came with, and these recommendations were made. Older Sagen sat among others. the Commission, and there has been a good dialogue. Then I would also like to point out that the Enhedslisten never tends to hold back from anything, so I am surprised that Mr. Finn Sørensen seems a little outraged that you haven't been invited anymore. You could have just signed up more than that, so you could have participated on an equal footing with all of us who actually fought to get this bill done much better than it originally looked. But I would really like to hear Mr. Finn Sørensen's comment on rehabilitation, i.e. whether it is not something that can help improve the quality of life of a citizen, and also whether it is not true that we have now clarified it so much that it is so that, for whatever reason a citizen indicates in order not to be able to carry out a rehabilitation course, he is not deprived of home help.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093201	When Mrs Karin Nødgaard asks questions about something I have already said in my rapporteur's speech, I may have to repeat it, because apparently she has not listened. And I said in my rapporteur's speech that rehabilitation is a fine thing. But that is not what we are discussing. We are discussing whether it should be a tool for saving home help, whether it should be a tool for bringing older citizens into a situation where they are left to themselves. That's what this bill is all about. That is what the discussion has been about. Then I just wanted to say that I was extremely active to be included before the agreement was concluded. But the Minister has confirmed this on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093239	Mrs Astrid Krag for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093241	I would just like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur to confirm a few things. Well, I find it very difficult to recognize the picture that's being drawn by how things are connected here. I myself visited a rehabilitation centre in Mou, where you give people a good stay, and in average you save 9.3 hours of home help per year. citizens who enter there because they can more even when they come back because they can live the life they usually live because they become self-reliant. Then Enhedslisten stands here and makes it a very big problem. In fact, I am a little upset about this, which is why I would just like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur to confirm that with this new rehabilitation clause, § 83a, you still have exactly the same right as a citizen to be searched for help under § 83, if you do not benefit from the rehabilitation process. That is what the reality is and the insecurity that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is trying to create is not served by anyone. Therefore, I would just like to ask you to confirm the very factual fact that you have exactly the same right to be searched for the classic home help according to § 83, which you have previously had, if you do not benefit from § 83a.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093345	You don't. The rapporteur hits precisely what is at the heart of the problem. I would like to read out of the comments: the bill obliges the municipal council, prior to assessing the need for home help, to offer a time-limited, short-term and targeted rehabilitation programme if the rehabilitation process is deemed to improve the functioning of the recipient and thereby reduce the need for home help. This means that you cannot get home help until you have undergone a rehabilitation programme, if the municipality considers that you need it, and the municipality estimates that you have development potential to be able to take care of yourself. It is a quite different legal situation to the right to home help from that which is in the present law. This has been our main appeal to this and we have wanted to equip the citizen with some legal certainty in that situation, and that is why we have tabled some amendments. They have all been rejected and we cannot get any factual, concrete explanation of what is wrong with those amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093451	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093455	I am sorry to say this, but what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying is completely on the moon. Can't the rapporteur himself hear that? Is it a problem that the municipality first evaluates how self-help the elderly can become and how much of your life you can get back? That's what Enhedslisten is saying is a major assault. It's not. If you cannot complete the rehabilitation process, if you do not benefit from it, and it can be from day one, because you are plagued by grief and melancholy, and because you have a severe disability you have exactly the same legal requirement to be searched according to section 83 that you have today. What Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying is simply not right and I hope that too many people out there are listening to it, because this will mean a very positive change for many elderly people who will be able to do what they have been able to do throughout their lives for a long time. So you have to be a little special in order to think that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093539	The rapporteur does not really want to deal with what I am saying. The problem is that, as a starting point, we must not search the citizen for home help until the citizen has completed the rehabilitation process. That's the whole new mechanics of this bill. This will be imposed on the municipalities. You want to make sure that they do so because in this way you will hope to arrive at a situation where you can save even more millions of home help hours than you have already done. That's the crunch of this bill. We have tried to provide citizens with tools to protect themselves from this. They didn't get them. That is why, of course, we have to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093617	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093628	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 102 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 8 (EL and Eyvind Vesselbo (V)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093700	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093716	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 98 (V, S, RV, EL, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 13 (DF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093739	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093756	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 112 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093825	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093834	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 60 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 52 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093906	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone here wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. No, sir. Henning Hyllested wanted to comment on the amendment as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219093944	As a relatively new feature of the thing, you have to sort out the procedures, so I apologise, of course. It was in fact in connection with the amendment that I wanted to say that I would be allowed to follow it here at the end of Tuesday at second reading, when we had a lot of noise and hooliganism in the street, and that was in connection with the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten. As you know, that amendment was not adopted, but we still have to note today that the Ministry of Transport and the Minister for Transport have listened to Enhedslisten's arguments and acknowledged that the provisions on snow clearing, etc. in the original bill was not entirely reasonable. Then there is this amendment from the Minister. We think it is a good thing that one listens in this way when speaking from the platform in the Things. But we must also say that it only partially corrects the miser in the original draft law. This makes it possible to understand that landowners still have considerable land to maintain and clear of snow, if it is unfortunate to have a land that is up to a so-called inventory area. However, the Minister indicates in a reply to the Transport Committee that on these lands the municipality must, after all, be responsible for maintaining and clearing snow on parts of this inventory area, if otherwise it is the municipality that owns the area. We have to say that the amendment is certainly a step forward and it is a response to the Enhedslisten and the other parties who then supported us on Tuesday. And now that the Enhedslisten's own amendment was voted down, I would just like to say that we will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment tabled by the Minister and we thank him for his sensitivity. I would also like to say straight away that, for many other and very different reasons that we have explained at first reading, we are abstaining from the final legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094153	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Does anyone else wish to comment on the amendment? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094205	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094211	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone here want to make a statement? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094215	We shall now proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the bill. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 103 (V, S, DF, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094253	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094302	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 97 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstaining from voting on 13 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094341	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate on the amendment and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094357	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094404	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094411	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 109 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094436	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094447	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 59 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 52 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094523	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094535	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 73 (S, DF, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 38 (V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094618	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094628	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. The bill has been passed unanimously by 111 votes and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094652	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094704	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 60 (S, RV, SF, EL, Uffe Elbæk (UFG) and 1 V (by mistake)) voted against 51 (V, DF, LA and KF), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094750	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219094802	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. This is one of the cases where you have to listen to what the President says. I shall conclude the vote. Can we not just note the lack of voting here? Is the screen working? We note that we have closed the vote, which means that if I have to guess, the proposal has been rejected by 38 votes in favour, 58 votes against and 13 abstentions. In other words, the motion for a resolution has been rejected. Then we hope that the technique will last for the rest of the race. In favour 38 (V, LA and KF), against 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 13 (DF) ].
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095000	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095010	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 47 votes (V, DF and KF), against 59 abstentions (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), 5 abstentions (LA). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095048	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095100	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 38 (V, LA and KF) voted against 58 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk UFG) abstentions 13 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095128	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095143	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 38 (V, LA and KF), against 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 13 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095214	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095226	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 38 (V, LA and KF), against 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 13 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095257	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095309	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 38 (V, LA and KF), against 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 13 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095341	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095354	The final adoption of the proposal is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 88 (V, S, RV, SF, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 22 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095430	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219095444	Thank you. I am speaking on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left today at the second reading of L 72, because we in the Left are looking with concern at the bill in question. After all, this is the bill announced by the Prime Minister in his opening speech that the government will tighten the rules to curb the influx of asylum seekers that Denmark is experiencing. A legislative proposal will have been adopted aimed partly at curbing the influx of asylum seekers. It was actually a message that we in the Left were happy about, a message we have been asking for the last 3 years, in which the government has done nothing to slow down the asylum seeker's influx to Denmark, but on the contrary has made one relaxation after another together with the left wing and with Enhedslisten at the head. In fact, in 2015 a recognised asylum applicant family of two adults and three children will receive DKK 10,000. more a month than it would in 2011, when the VK government was in power. This means, of course, that there is a much greater incentive, a much greater incentive to choose Denmark as an asylum destination, and this has been a significant factor in increasing the influx of asylum seekers. The government didn't care about that. Then the influx over the summer becomes so great that you succumb to the pressure and recognise that yes, you have to tighten up just as we bourgeois parties have been demanding that you do for a long time. As I said, we appreciate that. What we are not so happy about is the way the government chooses to do it. The draft law we are dealing with today, L 72, introduces a new temporary protection status for asylum seekers who have a more temporary need for protection and it postpones the time of family reunification for the group concerned by just under a year. It is also justified that when they are only to be here temporarily, there is no reason why they should have their family with them. It could be reasonable to say that these are two excellent, sensible measures in themselves if only the government's legislative proposals, that is, the two proposals, were based on reality rather than on a thoughtful situation. In fact, the proposal is based, in the view of the Left at least, on what appears to be false assumptions and false assumptions. First of all, it is on the assumption that these asylum seekers, who are the asylum seekers, are primarily asylum seekers from Syria, that we can return home quickly. They're going to be in Denmark for a little while... 1, maybe 2 years, and then we can send them back to Syria. It could be a sensible way to go if it was a road that could be made, but it is not, because it presupposes peace and happiness and stability in Syria. Apparently, no one except this government believes this is happening within a few years. It is also the case with the bill that the problem with it is that it hits very few people. If it is a tightening-up, a tightening-up of legislation, it is certainly a tightening-up which affects very few. When the government first presented the proposal at the then Minister for Justice Karen Hækkerup and the Minister for Integration, it was said that the majority of asylum seekers from Syria would be hit. They'd be hit by this tightening. It turned out to be wrong. Turns out the numbers had been tampered with. Then it turned into a third, then it turned into a quarter, and now, at committee reading, we have actually been unable to get an answer from the government on the importance of this bill, which of the asylum seekers we have, it will hit or for whom it will actually be a tightening up. What we have to conclude is that it is a very, very small group. The proposal therefore seems to be a theoretical tightening-up, an asylum-tightening organisation, if you will, which seems unable to cope with the reality test. That is what we in the Left are quite concerned about. Now we are adopting something in the Danish Parliament it will then be on the other side of the Christmas holidays which will not work as intended but which will create far more problems than it really solves and which will, of course, be a tightening of it on paper, but will not be at all the same in reality, because it will be very, very few that will actually be affected by the changes to the rules and legislation that the government is proposing. It's kind of like this Eritrean report, which we have discussed so many times and which was the government's bid on how to stop the influx of asylum seekers from Eritrea. You make a fact finding report, and then you use it to deny these Eritreans asylum. It could be an excellent way forward if it were sustainable if it were held in the Refugee Board if it held a little public debate, but that has not proved to be the case. And maybe not everyone in this room, but outside the Parliament I think it is aware that it is sailing for the government in relation to the Eritrean asylum seekers and the fact-finding mission in question. We in the Left are afraid that the exact same thing will happen again with this bill. That is why, during the committee procedure, we have tried to get clear answers from the government as to what the significance of the draft law is. We have asked many questions which the Minister of Justice has readily answered. We do not have a desire to decide what will be the answer, but we would like the answer to be given to what is being asked, and unfortunately this has not been the case in all cases. That is why it is unclear who the bill hits and what it will mean. When you ask, it is clear that the government does not actually even believe that this will lead to curbing the influx of asylum seekers, at least not when you answer Parliament under ministerial responsibility. I understand that there are rapporteurs who, outside this room, answer that it will, of course, lead to a lower influx of asylum seekers into Denmark. When you ask the Minister, and that is what we have to base our vote on down in the Chamber, you cannot get an answer as to whether the government believes that this will lead to a lower asylum seeker influx from Syria. There is, however, someone in the debate from the government who has been honest and who has said it as it is, and here I should like to congratulate the chairman of the Radicals, Deputy Prime Minister Morten Østergaard, for he said, and now I quote: 'There is no one who believes that Syrian refugees coming to Denmark can return home within a short period of time. ▪ That is what the Deputy Prime Minister said, and it completely pulls away the curtain under the government's so-called asylum-tightening. We have not received an answer in consultation as to what the government thinks. Is that what the Minister of Justice says, or is that what the Deputy Prime Minister says? It has to be said that it is quite impossible to get a clear answer to what the government thinks. If that is what the Deputy Prime Minister thinks, then it does not make much sense to adopt the bill in question. If that's what the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister think, then maybe it makes sense. There I would like to make a clear appeal to the government to find out, during the Christmas holidays, what they think of the bill in question and what the government's line is. Because it can't be both. That cannot be both what the Deputy Prime Minister says and what the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister say about the bill. We look forward, moreover, when the government has been clarified about what it thinks and we have had clear answers to what the draft law means, to take a position after the Christmas holidays. That is also why we want the proposal to be referred back to committee here between the second and third readings. And we will also ask further questions to try to get some clear answers, because we need to legislate on an enlightened basis. With those words, I have now explained the position of the Left Parliamentary Group, and it is important to be careful, in addition, to pay tribute to ourselves, and I will not do so, but I have to say that it is sometimes wise, as the Left has done in this matter, not just to act as a rubber stamp for the government's so-called asylum-tightening proposal, because there are serious doubts as to whether this is actually going to have any meaning in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100253	There are no other rapporteurs, but there are a number of brief comments. Mrs. Mette Reissmann first.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100259	Thank you. In October, the President of the Left, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, could not wait until the austerity which would come and which the government announced on 14 September. He demanded faster action. Now we are in December, and we are now second-reading this bill here today, which actually contains restrictions on asylum rules. We could have finished this bill by Christmas if it wasn't because the Left had constant concerns, constant blockages for this. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: how does this relate, also with reference to the rapporteur's speech, to what his own party chairman said, namely that he wanted faster action, he wanted a tightening up? This is the case, but I see only a clear difference between what the rapporteur has said now and what his party chairman asked us to do in November.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100353	I can say that there is absolutely no lack of coherence between what Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and I have said in this case. We have asked for real tightenings, and it is the case that the more you dig in this, the fewer it hits, the fewer it is a tightening-up, and the more doubt there is whether this is really a tightening-up. We in the Left, unlike the government, want lasting solutions to the asylum pressure, not temporary solutions. We don't want an Eritrean report situation again with this bill. We fear that this will happen, and I can of course see this as a disgrace to the government, but if the government had a genuine desire to tighten up in this area, it would have been possible to invite the Left over to a cup of coffee in the Ministry of Justice when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen said as he did, but the government didn't want that. No, you have made your own proposal, which you know as well will have a limited effect, otherwise you would never get the Radicals to vote for it, and then you put it down in the Assembly. When somebody asks critical questions, you get mad. I really don't think you have any reason to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100452	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100454	Now, I'm not going to have to deal with Mr. Knox. Karsten Lauritzens's guesswork about who's mad and who's happy. I can now say that we are dealing with a legislative proposal which contains specific restrictions, and in this context I would like to draw Mr Beazley's attention to this. Karsten Lauritzen's attention to a quote from Politiken on 27 October, where Mr. Karsten Lauritzen says: "But we have said that we are voting for a tightening of the legislation, even though it is a small one, and we are of course in favour of that. So now I'm gonna start to hear Mr. Knox. Karsten Lauritzen doubts what he actually said himself, so even though it was very small in Mr. Karsten Lauritzen's world, he'd vote for it anyway. So I would like to know: does the Left vote yes or no to this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100542	That will be seen when we vote after Christmas for the third reading. That is where we will explain our position. We just want to be allowed to find out what we are voting for, and I think that is real enough. Then I am sorry if I have said that Mrs Mette Reissmann was upset. I would say, however, that in this matter she looks a little displeased, and this is an honest matter, because it is of course a pity that the government cannot go out and say: we have now tightened up. But the government cannot, because it is doubtful whether this is actually a rigid proposal. When we have clarity about this, we take a position in the Left, and if it is a tightening, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100619	Sir. Martin Henriksen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100622	Thank you. I agree with Mr. Karsten Lauritzen in that this is a little tighter. It is close to nothing, but it is, after all, better than nothing, and that is why I would also urge the Left to vote in favour. I would also like to ask the Left something. Since it is that the Left believes that the government's bill is not enough, how can it be that we do not vote for the Danish People's Party's amendment, which everything else just tightens significantly more than what the government is proposing? Because if the Left does not believe that the government's bill is enough, and we in the Danish People's Party agree with that, then the logic must be that the Left can vote for the Danish People's Party's proposal, which tightens more.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100702	Now, of course, the Danish People's Party has tabled a number of amendments to this effect, and we can actually see ourselves in some of them, but all the time that they will not be adopted, even if we would vote in favour, I think we feel that we would like to save that discussion with the Danish People's Party at a time when we can form a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly, and then I am sure that we will have to agree to create lasting solutions to the asylum situation that Denmark is in. However, in relation to the government's bill, we have chosen to say no to the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party. It doesn't necessarily mean that we can't see ourselves in some of them, but it just means that we think it would be right to save that discussion and negotiation to a later date, and we in the Left also have a number of suggestions as to what we could do to slow down the influx of asylum, as we have written in our paper "Denmark" for those who can and will. That is why we want to see things in a context and not just in isolation from the government's legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100758	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100801	Should I then understand what the Left says, so that the Left will support the Danish People's Party's proposal, but that they will wait until after elections? Because I think it's a fine announcement to get from Parliament's platform, it's a very, very clear message, and if that's the message I get, I'd like to sign for it in advance. And if not, sir... Karsten Lauritzen will say that the Left will support the Danish People's Party's amendment now or after an election, so I think we should say more clearly what it is that we want to tighten up further. But Mr. Karsten Lauritzen that the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party are good and that they will be supported by the Left, one will just wait to support them after a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100841	I can see that, sir. Martin Henriksen is fishing for a small Christmas present for the Danish People's Party, and there I am sorry to disappoint Mr. Martin Henriksen and say the same thing as I said before, that we may well see ourselves in some of the amendments, but that we think it would be best to save it for a later debate and discussion with the Danish People's Party in the situation that we had to have a majority. Then Mr. Martin Henriksen, what the Left wants, and it's in our aliens' initiative Denmark for those who can and will. There are a large number of proposals, including: is about making it less attractive to apply for asylum in Denmark, and you could start by addressing them. And these are proposals that I can understand that the Danish People's Party supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100915	Mrs Trine Bramsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100921	After all, we are talking about the possibility of limiting the possibility of obtaining asylum in Denmark. Can the rapporteur of the Left point to as much as one, just one, concrete proposal on how to limit the possibility of obtaining asylum in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219100936	Well, I might see some suggestions about how to limit the possibility of obtaining asylum in Denmark, but I actually think it will have a greater effect to ensure that someone does not choose Denmark as asylum destination. It is just that, unlike this government that we have now, we have followed a line in which we were not wrapped in cotton wool and were covered by the welfare state, from the day we set foot in Denmark and were recognised as asylum seekers. After all, the party represented by Mrs Trine Bramsen has changed the economic conditions so that as a recognised asylum-seeker family, we now receive DKK 120,000. more a year than we got in our reign. That's $10,000. more a month, and it's rumored by the smugglers. That is one of the reasons why there are plenty of Eritreans coming to Denmark, that is because they can get the high cash benefits. That is why there are plenty of families coming from Syria, because they have heard about the good conditions in Denmark, and that is where we want to turn down the conditions, and that is one way to go. However, we are also open to looking at whether we can tighten up the asylum legislation itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101038	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101041	The fact is that the Left has not made as much as one, just one small proposal to limit the possibilities of obtaining asylum in Denmark. Will the rapporteur explain whether it is also the fault of the Danish Government that there has been a corresponding increase in the number of refugees coming to all the countries around us? Is it also the fault of the Danish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101100	Well, I can't rule that out. I certainly do not think it is, but the government cannot deny its importance. After all, we can see that the number of asylum seekers fell when the start-up aid was introduced in 2002. And I also believe that if we implement the proposal that the Left has, with the new, modern integration service, where what they get is much less, it will result in us seeing a dive in the influx of asylum. But I don't want to keep the government up on what happens in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101127	Sir. Troels Ravn for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101135	Thank you. I have to say that I was somewhat surprised at the rapporteur's speech here. At first sight, I could almost be led to believe that the rapporteur was under the influence of having to hand over the party's attack manual rather than actually being serious and constructive about the bill here. When I look at what has otherwise been said by the Left in the asylum debate, the Left's integration rapporteur, Martin Geertsen, called for action from the government on 17 September this year. I quote: We risk Swedish conditions if the government does not act now. And now it is that the government is acting, both humanly, responsibly and pragmatically. We have a concrete asylum tightening here, which will give air to the municipalities. Has the Left really changed its mind about the need for rapid action?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101233	No, we do not, but we want real action. After all, we do not just want theoretical austerity and things that do not keep out in reality, such as. the Eritrean report for which the government is responsible, which was therefore intended to slow down the influx of asylum seekers from Eritrea and ensure that we could not grant them asylum or were not obliged to grant them asylum. It has to be said that the situation is that it does not seem to have had the intended effect. So we are too really tight and we will also be voting in favour of this proposal if there is a real tightening in it, but in other words all the time that the Deputy Prime Minister has pulled a large part of the foundations and prerequisites of the draft law apart a few days ago, I think it is fair enough that the largest opposition party is using the Christmas vacation just to find out what the proposal means. At the same time, the government can use the Christmas holiday to find out what you actually mean in relation to it. Do you mean what the Prime Minister and Minister of Justice say, or do you mean what the Deputy Prime Minister says?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101332	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101336	I have to say, moreover, that I am not particularly critical of the fact that the things the rapporteur stands on the platform and expresses, in other words, appear to be weaveries, because is the position of the Left that there is no need for rapid action in relation to the challenges of the increase in the number of asylum seekers, and what proposals for concrete action does the Left have in relation to the influx of refugees we see?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101409	What we have done, among other things, is that we have read the hearing answers that have come and there writes the Lawyer's Council and the Lawyer's Society, which are not political: there does not seem to be any need to introduce the new status; there do not seem to be any factual reasons here, the Lawyer's Council says that they actually believe that the government's bill is untrue. So it would be strange if, as the largest opposition party, the Left did not say: should we not examine it? Is this just a theoretical tightening and not a real tightening? Well, there's a sign of that. I think that is actually serious of us. And then I can say to Mr. Knox. Troel Ravn, that I have a lot of papers up here, but I haven't brought the Left's attack manual, so I'm not reading it from that, but from the Lawyer's Board's hearing response.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101447	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, the last brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101449	Thank you. I am somewhat puzzled and confused about the Left, not just in this matter, but in general recent times. I think that the rapporteur's attack manual or not is very much in line with what we hear elsewhere, because I can see from the answers that Mr. Karsten Lauritzen has said that the Left cannot now state whether they will vote in favour or against. The Left will not reply to what they themselves actually want or have made of proposals, and in the answer given by the rapporteur to the Danish People's Party, the rapporteur says quite clearly: well, we will not want to discuss anything with the Danish People's Party in the near future; it will have to wait until a later date. We have to understand that it is after a choice. Now it's nine months before an election. Does the Left alone wish to run an election campaign for the nine months, or does the Left, as part of the honored Parliament, wish to be in the working clothes with the rest of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101543	Of course, we want to be in the work clothes. I think that if you look at it, you will see that we have voted in favour of a great many of the government's proposals. We have done the same here today. However, there will be something that is not very good and that will not have the effect it is intended to have, that is to say, that will not slow down the influx of asylum. If the Minister of Justice wants to give an answer to the Danish Parliament, where she writes that yes, we expect this to slow down the influx of asylum to Denmark, then we will vote in favour. But the problem is that we have asked, not even, not twice, but I think three times and lots of times in an oral consultation, and the Minister of Justice cannot provide an answer. So if sir... Jeppe Bruus can persuade one of his party colleagues, the Minister of Justice or the Prime Minister, to come and give the answer in the Parliamentary Chamber under ministerial responsibility, and then I can promise that we will vote for this proposal immediately. But until then we will be allowed to study the proposal, and then we will take a position after Christmas, and perhaps the government will have found out what it thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101637	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101639	I simply think that the answer given by the rapporteur here illustrates very well the answer to my question, namely that we have to understand that this is more about stalling and campaigning than actually being in the work clothes, and that is it.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101658	If the rapporteur would like some proposals, I can say that we want to introduce a new integration benefit; we want to roll back the opportunity to live and work outside the centres; we want to look at a number of the benefits introduced by the government, the right to earn a national pension for recognised asylum seekers. If you read our play • Denmark • for those who can and will, you will see a wide range of tightening suggestions. So, sir. Jeppe Bruus is welcome to read the paper, and then he will see answers to the questions. I'd be happy to give him a free copy, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101732	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219101737	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF) and can now be voted on. Yes, you can be in your place. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 14 (DF), against 91 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 13 (DF), against 92 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (DF) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 13 (DF), against 94 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (DF) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 13 (DF), against 94 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (DF), joined by another minority (KF), and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (DF and KF), against 88 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-9, elected by the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. Ten of a minority (DF) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. in favour of 13 (DF), against 94 (V, S, RV, SF, EL, LA, KF and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20141219102047	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business and Growth (Henrik Sass Larsen): Bill no. L 100 (Proposal for a Law on the restructuring and winding-up of certain financial undertakings) and Bill No. L 105 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Financial Activities, Law on Financial Stability, Law on a Guarantee Fund for Depositors and Investors, Law on Securities Trading, etc.) and the law of equations. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 13 January 2015, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I can also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website. I wish all Members and all staff in the house a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
